K821x#15Complaint
Mr C says Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) gave  him unsuitable advice about transferring his 
occupational pension funds into a Self-invested Personal Pension with unregulated 
investments, which caused him to suffer a loss.
background
Mr C had funds in three occupational pension schemes which  hed built up during 35 years 
of service in industry.  In 2014 he was approached by Mr B offering advice about his pension  
arrangements. 
Mr B presented himself  as working on behalf  of Abana, for example he gave Mr C a 
business card and reference material with its details on. And he said that he worked for Mr F 
who dealt with investment  matters.
Later Ill explain a bit more about who these individuals are and their roles in what  happened 
to Mr C.
Mr C met with Mr B on several occasions  and he was persuaded to transfer  his entire  
retirement provisions into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  with Avalon Investment 
Services Limited (Avalon). He was given paperwork to sign in order to complete the 
transaction during one of these meetings  at his home.
Mr C ended up transferring about £171k into the SIPP with the bulk of funds being invested 
in two unregulated  funds  through a business called  ePortfolio Solutions. These were the 
Brighton SPC - Kijani Commodity  Fund  (Kijani)  and the Swiss  Asset  Micro Assist Inc Fund  
(SAMAIF).
Mr C first realised there might be a problem in 2015  when  a person he worked  with 
mentioned that someone whod made similar arrangements  and investments  had found  out 
that one or more  of funds were in trouble. This proved  accurate   his funds had been 
suspended and he faced substantial losses.
I understand the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  became  involved with Abana when it 
became aware  the firm may have  been  operating in the UK outside  of its permissions. At the 
relevant time, Abana was an EEA authorised firm and passported into the UK under the 
insurance mediation directive (IMD). However,  it appeared  to be providing services  in the 
UK, namely  giving advice  and making  arrangements in relation to pensions, without the 
required top-up  permissions it required from the FCA.
Abana has told us the FCA directed that an independent third party  should  review the advice 
the firm had given  UK consumers to determine whether the advice had been  suitable, and if 
not, to assess any detriment. Abana has said that a consultancy service specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out this review.
Ref: DRN32760532Later in 2015  Mr C was asked by the specialist  consultancy  to complete a questionnaire  
related to the transfer of his pension funds. Following the submission  of his information, it 
wrote to him in February 2016 with its conclusions. It said the advice hed been given to 
transfer to the SIPP  and invest in unregulated  funds  had been unsuitable. It noted Mr F, 
working for Abana,  had been responsible. And it set out what steps Abana  should take to put 
Mr C back into the position  he wouldve been  in had the transfer not taken place. It 
confirmed the redress Abana should pay in July 2016.
Mr C brought his complaint to us in May 2018 because  despite  confirmation that hed been 
given unsuitable  advice and having been awarded compensation, Abana  had failed  to pay 
him.
Initially, Abana indicated it would settle the redress detailed in the reviews carried out by the 
regulatory compliance consultancy in cases like Mr Cs. It referred  matters  to its professional 
indemnity insurer. But later it changed  its position  and argued  it wasnt  responsible for what  
had happened, so it didnt  pay him any compensation.
Abana submits  that the individuals  involved in the transaction  with Mr C werent its appointed 
representatives (ARs), or its agents. It says those  responsible had entered  into business 
arrangements with Avalon without its approval. So Abana says its not responsible for the 
acts or omissions in this case and challenged our jurisdiction  to consider Mr Cs complaint 
against it.
The investigator concluded that we could look into Mr Cs complaint. And after considering  
the merits of the case he went  on to uphold it. Abana disagreed and so this case has been  
passed to me to consider.  Before moving on, Ill deal with a few of the matters  raised by 
Abana in responding  to this Service.
Abana has said Avalon, as the SIPP provider, was regulated and allegedly  accepted 
business introductions from an unregulated party and instructions to buy unregulated 
investments. It says Avalon had a responsibility to carry  out due diligence.
Further, Abana suggests the problems identified in Mr Cs case  also rest at the door of 
another SIPP provider which it says had a relationship with Mr F. It also cites a fund 
management company  as having  responsibility. And it goes on to question  actions  taken by 
the FCA in 2015 which  it says couldve had a material impact on the losses Mr C and others  
suffered.
What Abana  asserts may or may not be the case in relation to other regulated firms  and 
individuals. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties  here. Mr C has brought 
his complaint against Abana and thats what I need  to address.
Abana has also said that in a meeting it held with another SIPP provider and Mr F in May 
2013, it was told some SIPP products were insurance based and therefore compliant under 
IMD permissions. Its not clear to me if Abana is saying it was misled by other  parties into 
thinking it could  carry on the activities that are the subject  of this complaint. Whatever the 
case, as a regulated firm its responsible  for its own regulatory compliance  and its own acts 
and omissions.
Ref: DRN32760533Abana hasnt  provided much information and evidence from the time of the events 
complained about.  But it has offered arguments in support of its position at various  points 
over the past few years. Ive not provided a detailed response to all the arguments  it has 
posed. Thats deliberate; ours is an informal  service  for resolving disputes between  financial 
businesses and their customers. While I have taken account and considered all of Abanas 
submissions, Ive concentrated my findings  on what I think  is relevant and at the heart of this 
complaint.
So, Ill now turn to whether this Service has jurisdiction in this case.
my findings
the parties involved in this case
Before I decide  whether  this Service has jurisdiction to consider Mr Cs complaint against 
Abana, I thought it would be helpful  to set out some of what  we know about  the parties who 
may have  been  involved  in the transaction leading to this complaint.
There were several entities and individuals who could potentially  have been  involved, and 
the relationships  between  them arent entirely  clear. Some  information is missing. Some 
firms no longer exist as a going concern. So, in this regard, and given the passage  of time, 
the case is difficult to get to the bottom  of.
However, weve been provided  with some helpful  documents by the organisation which took 
on the administration of Mr Cs SIPP scheme. And these documents  have been used to help 
us build a picture  of the key relationships between the various  parties.
Abana Unipessoal Lda
Abana is a Portuguese advisory  firm that, at the relevant time, passported into the UK under 
the IMD on a branch passport. So, at the relevant  time,  it was an EEA authorised firm.
Abanas business model appears to have  involved generating fees from advisors conducting 
activities in the UK. It has previously been  attached to several firms and individuals (see tab 
Appointed representatives / tied agents  / PSD or EMD agents under Abanas entry on the 
Financial Services Register (the Register)).
Mr F.
Mr F is a central figure in this complaint. As Ill set out later in this decision,  it is Mr F who 
appears to have arranged for Mr Cs pension funds to be transferred to the SIPP with Avalon 
(and to invest in the unregulated Kijani  and SAMAIF funds). One of the matters I will need  to 
establish is whether  in conducting those activities, Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana 
(either as its AR or its agent).
Mr F isnt listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana. However, this isnt a requirement 
under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  so its not 
determinative of whether  or not he was acting as Abanas AR. I will examine the relationship 
between Abana and Mr F in more detail below.
Ref: DRN32760534New Beginnings  (Financial Solutions)  Limited (New Beginnings)
New Beginnings  was listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana  from 11 March  2014 until 
6 February 2015.  Mr F was a minority shareholder  of this firm.
We have been  provided with a copy of the AR agreement between  Abana and New 
Beginnings which is dated 7 March 2014. The recitals of the agreement set out the following:
WHEREAS:
(1)The Company  [Abana]  is in the business  of international  wealth  management,  life 
assurance  and general  insurance  mediation  and is authorised  and regulated  by the 
lnstituto  de Seguros  de Portugal  ("ISP")  with registration  number  412378472.  The 
Company  has established  a branch  in England  with company  registration  FC031241  
with limited  regulation  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA")  number  597069  
and authorised  by the DGSFP  In Spain.
(2)The Company  hereby  appoints  the AR [New Beginnings] as its appointed  
representative,  subject  to the terms  of this agreement  whereby  the Company  
shall  authorise  and the AR shall  conduct  the Activities  defined  herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  for which  the Company  is authorised,  as agreed  
between  the parties  as detailed  in the Schedule  hereto  (as amended  from time to time);
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any 
person  or persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the 
AR and any person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We were not provided with a copy of the Schedule  referred to in the agreement. 
[Mr F] Associates
[Mr F] Associates isnt a legal entity or company in its own right. It appears to be a trading 
name Mr F began using for activities he was carrying out from a certain  point in time.
At the end of May 2014, Mr F told Avalon that he was in the process of getting  his own FCA 
authorisation (we understand he had previously been submitting business to Avalon using 
Abanas authorisation number). He made an application for new terms of business  and this 
was acknowledged  by Avalon, which noted internally that he was leaving Abana.
In June 2014 Mr F and Avalon were  trying to finalise the arrangements for Mr F to be 
submitting business  to them on his own account. For example, the parties  discussed  
ensuring appropriate letters of authority for Mr Fs clients were in place and were in the 
process of agreeing when payments to his new  agency would be effective from.
Mr Fs FCA authorisation hadnt  been received by July 2014, so he agreed with Avalon  that 
in the interim, business would be conducted through New Beginnings, with [Mr F] Associates 
acting as part of that network.
Ref: DRN32760535Mr B.
Mr B was the advisor who met with Mr C and gave him the advice to transfer his pension  pot 
to a SIPP with Avalon.  Like Mr F, he was also a minority shareholder  of New Beginnings. 
Given testimony weve had from Mr C, it seems likely Mr B had a role working for [Mr F] 
Associates during 2014. Mr B didnt have his own FCA authorisation.
Ms B.
Ms B signed to say she was responsible for giving Mr C advice about his pension. But Im 
satisfied from Mr Cs testimony she never  met him and simply signed some of the paperwork 
after Mr B had completed most of the documentation and had got Mr C to sign the 
applications. Ms B was a Director and shareholder  of New Beginnings.
Avalon Investment Services  Limited
Avalon was a UK based SIPP provider  and administrator,  regulated  by the FCA. Amongst 
other activities, it was authorised to arrange deals  in investments and to establish,  operate  
and wind up a pension  scheme. Mr C is unhappy about the SIPP  arrangements,  including  
the unregulated  investments it facilitated.
Avalon was placed into administration  in February 2016 and was dissolved in August 2018. I 
understand the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is currently  considering 
claims against the firm (see https://www.fscs.org.uk/failed-firms/avalon/).
can our Service consider  Mr Cs complaint against Abana?
the jurisdiction of the ombudsman service 
The ombudsman service  can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1 R). A firm includes an incoming EEA firm. Abana  
was, at the relevant time, an incoming EEA firm.
DISP 2.3.3 G provides  further guidance on what acts or omissions can be considered as a 
complaint (bolding  is my emphasis) and sets out that:
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the firm 
 is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  
the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So, there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts about which Mr C complains done in the carrying on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Abana responsible  for those acts?
Ref: DRN32760536were the acts Mr C complained about done in carrying on a regulated activity?
Mr C has complained about Abanas role in him receiving unsuitable pension and investment 
advice. And the subsequent arrangements made  on his behalf to transfer his occupational  
pension funds to a SIPP with Avalon and make  investments in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds. 
Mr C says he hasnt been compensated  despite previous assurances he would be.
Section 22 of FSMA defines "regulated  activities"  as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes  any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means  specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant  Treasury order is the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Article 82 of the RAO provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. A SIPP is a personal pension scheme.  So, giving advice about a SIPP is a 
regulated activity.
Mr C wasnt actively  looking  to change his arrangements.  It appears  he only took action after 
being cold called in early 2014.  Mr C says Mr B gave him the impression he worked  for 
Abana and the business card and other  materials he left him confirmed this.
Weve not been provided  with a fact find, risk appetite assessment, suitability report  or 
recommendation letter  all we have is the testimony from Mr C about  what Mr B told him 
when he visited his home.
Nevertheless, I think its highly unlikely Mr C wouldve embarked on a high-risk  investment 
strategy using his entire retirement provision  without this course of action  being  
recommended to him. Mr C had built up his pension funds over 35 years  of service. It seems  
more likely than not he received advice  that motivated  him to make the transfer.
So, on balance, Im satisfied Mr B did provide advice to Mr C to transfer out of his personal 
pension scheme  and invest in a SIPP with Avalon.  And I believe he told Mr C that the 
unregulated investments would perform better than his existing schemes and that a SIPP  
would provide him with more flexibility in accessing his benefits,  which  is why he was 
persuaded to make  the transfer.
Ref: DRN32760537In addition, under Article  25(1) RAO,  making  arrangements for another person to buy and 
sell a specified investment is a regulated  activity.  And Article 25(2) RAO says making 
arrangements with a view to a person  who participates in the arrangements  for buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated  activity.
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements  
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about  Article  25(2):
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing  houses and service companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
Mr Fs details were  included on Mr Cs ePortfolio  Solutions application. And both this and his 
SIPP application had Abanas details on. He transmitted the applications and Avalon dealt 
with him as the key contact. Mr F led it to believe  that he was introducing  business  with 
Abanas authority.
PERG 12.3 makes it clear that the circumstances in which rights under  a personal pension  
scheme may be bought or sold include  when  the member first joins the scheme and 
acquires all the rights that the scheme  provides to its members (since  he has bought  those 
rights).
Mr F transmitted the authorised paperwork to Avalon which facilitated Mr C opening  the 
Avalon SIPP  and the investment in the unregulated funds. Im satisfied that this constitutes 
the regulated  activity  of arranging the pension scheme with Avalon. And, Im satisfied that 
the actions of Mr F constitute  making  arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment  under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Abana says its taken  advice about the regulations. It asserts  that it can rely on certain  
exclusions in the RAO  (which, if applicable,  would bring the activities  outside  the scope of 
Article 25). For example, it says that the exclusion at Article  29 applies because  Mr F was an 
unauthorised arranger.
Even if I was to accept  Abanas point about  Mr Fs status, for the exclusion at article 29 to 
apply, its necessary that, in return for making  the arrangements,  Mr F didnt receive from 
any person - other  than Mr C  payment or other  reward  arising out of their making  the 
arrangements. 
Ref: DRN32760538In a recent  submission, Abana said Mr F received payment at the clients  request, direct from 
the assets of the Trust overseeing the pension fund.  It also said this wasnt commission.  But 
I think the actual  arrangement was supposed to work along  the lines set out in the AR 
agreement between Mr F and Abana. For example, at paragraphs 5 of that document  it 
says:
The Company will pay the AR 100%  of the Commission  to which  the AR becomes entitled  
as a result  of the Activities. 
The agreement goes  on to make further provision  for its control and adjustment  of payments 
made. The commission/introducer fees were  meant  to flow from the funds injected into the 
pension fund with Avalon,  from it to Abana and then to Mr F. So, the exclusion at article 29 
doesnt apply.
In its last submission Abana asked for evidence of the payments it received via Avalon in 
relation to the arrangement of certain SIPPs. It should have a full record  of all the payments 
it received in relation to Mr Fs activities. I can see it requested  some  of this information  on 
20 February 2017 when its Director emailed Avalon to say: 
We are missing all adviser fee statements except for the April 2014 payment of £10278.73  
[which actually included  a commission payment  for the transaction  with Mr C]. This 
information has been requested by the FCA as evidence  of the fees that were paid to 
Abana.  
Avalon responded attaching copies of the statements from March 2014 to September  2014 
saying it had no other statements showing payments made to Abana.  Ive no doubt payment 
matters were complicated by discussions ongoing between  Mr F and Avalon about payment 
arrangements from May 2014  and I refer to these later in this decision.
In any case, in relation to the arguments  around  article 29, as Ill set out later in this decision,  
Im satisfied Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana. So, Abana is the authorised person 
here. And its arguments are not telling.
Abana also refers  to the exclusion set out at article 33 and says that an independent fund 
manager was appointed  to manage  the assets of the SIPP.  I disagree.  Ive seen no evidence  
that Mr F, Avalon or anyone else were  introducing  Mr C to an appropriate party  under this 
provision.
I can see in a recent submission Abana interprets  what Ive said here is that Ive seen no 
evidence of the involvement of Asset Management  International  (AMI). This was a non-
regulated fund management  organisation that is associated with e-Portfolio Solutions.
To clarify. I think, Mr F on behalf  of Abana, made  the introduction  to Avalon  as an authorised 
person. But this wasnt for the purpose  for it to provide independent advice or the 
independent exercise of discretion in relation  to investments generally or in relation to any 
class of investments  to which  the arrangements relate. So, the exclusion at article  33 does 
not apply. 
Im satisfied that this complaint involves regulated activities  giving advice on transferring 
from occupational  pension schemes  to a SIPP with Avalon and investing in unregulated 
funds and making arrangements to give effect  to these matters.
Ref: DRN32760539was Abana responsible for the acts and omissions of Mr B and/or Mr F?
The next thing  I must  consider is whether Abana is responsible for the acts and omissions  of 
Mr B and/or Mr F. As mentioned above,  the guidance at DISP  2.3.3G  says (bolding is my 
emphasis):
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)".
Appointed representatives
Section 39 FSMA sets out the following:
Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised  person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal)  which  
(i) permits  or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and 
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing, he is exempt from the general 
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(2) In this Act appointed representative means
(a) a person who is exempt as a result of subsection (1)
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
(4) In determining whether  an authorised person has complied with
(a) a provision contained in or made under  this Act,  anything which  a relevant person has 
done or omitted as respects business for which  the authorised person  has accepted 
responsibility is to be treated as having been done or omitted by the authorised person.
(5) Relevant person  means a person  who at the material time is or was an appointed 
representative by virtue of being a party to a contract with the authorised person.
So, a firm is answerable  for complaints about  the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to 
the business it has accepted responsibility  for in writing. I therefore  need to determine 
whether Abana had accepted responsibility  - in writing - for the acts being complained about 
here i.e. the advice  (given by Mr B) and the arrangements  (facilitated by Mr F).
Ref: DRN327605310The law of agency  
As set out above, a firm may also be responsible  for the acts or omissions of its agents 
(DISP 2.3.3G). So in the alternative, I will need to consider whether either  Mr B or Mr F were 
acting as Abanas agents in relation to the acts complained about,  and whether it is therefore  
responsible for Mr Cs complaint on that basis.
Agency is where  one party  (the principal)  allows another  party (the agent) to act on its behalf 
in such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. Broadly speaking, there are 
two types of agency I will need to consider: (1) actual authority, either express or implied,  
and (2) apparent (also  called ostensible) authority. 
The textbook Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21st Ed) sets out the following about actual 
authority [chapter 3, article 22]:
Actual authority
Actual authority  is the authority which the principal  has given the agent wholly or in part 
by means of words or writing (called here express  authority) or is regarded  by the law as 
having given him because  of the interpretation  put by the law on the relationship and 
dealings of the two parties.  Although founded in the principals assent, the conferral  of 
authority is judged objectively.
Diplock LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 
480 [at paragraph 502]:
An actual authority  is a legal relationship between principal  and agent  created by a 
consensual agreement  to which they alone are parties. Its scope is to be ascertained  by 
applying ordinary principles of construction of contracts, including  any proper implications 
from the express words  used, the usages  of the trade, or the course of business  between 
the parties. To this agreement the contractor is a stranger: he may be totally  ignorant of 
the existence of any authority on the part of the agent. Nevertheless, if the agent does 
enter into a contract  pursuant  to the actual  authority, it does create  contractual rights and 
liabilities between the principal and the contractor.
So, actual authority is a legal  relationship between the principal  and agent  created by an 
agreement to which they alone  are parties.  It may be express, for example a written  contract  
or oral agreement.  Or it can be implied , where  the authority can be concluded from the 
conduct of the parties or the circumstances of the case  that consent has been given for 
certain acts to be carried out by the agent  on behalf  of the principal.
And Bowstead & Reynolds  sets out the following  about apparent  authority [chapter 8, article 
72]:
Ref: DRN327605311Apparent (or Ostensible) Authority
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  that 
another person has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that other 
person with respect to anyone dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  
representation, to the same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was 
represented to have, even though he had no such actual authority. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to act 
in some way in the conduct of the principal's business with other persons. By so doing the 
principal represents  to anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the 
agent has authority  to enter on behalf  of the principal into contracts with other persons of 
the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principal's business has usually 
"actual" authority to enter into.
So, the question  I must  consider here is whether Abana (as principal) allowed Mr B and/or 
Mr F (the agents) to act on its behalf  in relation to conducting the activities  Mr C has 
complained about.  And whether this was done  with the express  or implied  agreement  of 
Abana (actual authority), or whether  the evidence shows Mr C relied  on a representation 
made by Abana (or that Abana allowed  to be made) that Mr B and/or Mr F had its authority 
to carry out the acts complained about. 
The advice given  by Mr B.
Mr C says he thought  that Mr B was working for Abana.  Hes given  us a copy  of the business 
card he left, which has Abanas name on it. Ive no reason to doubt his testimony  - that Mr B 
held himself out as working for Abana.
But I havent seen  any evidence that there was an AR agreement  or any other written 
agreement between Mr B and Abana. And he was never listed as an appointed 
representative of Abana  on the FCAs register. In fact, Ive seen no evidence of any direct 
relationship between Mr B and Abana.
Mr B was a shareholder of New Beginnings, which was an AR of Abana at the relevant time.  
So, there may have  been a relationship between him and Abana  through the entity  New 
Beginnings. But theres no evidence he was acting on behalf  of New Beginnings when 
dealing with Mr C.
For example, Mr C hasnt mentioned New Beginnings  since  bringing his complaint  to us. He 
doesnt recall Mr B mentioning that firm being  involved. And weve  not seen any 
communications such as emails, business cards  or other promotional  materials which relate  
to, or refer to New Beginnings being  involved in this transaction.
Mr B being a shareholder in New Beginnings is not in itself enough to make  Abana 
responsible for his acts or omissions.  Being a shareholder in a firm does not prevent him 
from conducting activities on his own behalf or through  an entirely different entity.
So, after carefully  considering all the available  evidence, I conclude  the following:
Ref: DRN327605312-Theres no evidence of a contract between Abana and Mr B where Abana  permits or 
requires Mr B to carry on business of a prescribed description  and accepts 
responsibility for the same in writing.  Mr B is therefore not an AR of Abana  for the 
purposes of section 39(3) of FSMA;
-There is no evidence that Mr B was acting  as an agent of Abana, that is: (1) theres 
no evidence he had Abanas express  or implied authority to carry on any activities  on 
its behalf; and (2) theres no evidence that Abana represented to Mr C that Mr B had 
authority to act on its behalf and that he relied  on this representation. Ive thought  
carefully about the business cards and other  materials  Mr B showed Mr C bearing 
Abanas name, but theres  no evidence that these documents were  provided by 
Abana for Mr B to use.
-Theres not enough evidence for me to conclude  that Mr B was acting on behalf of 
New Beginnings  in this transaction and Abana can therefore not be held responsible  
for his acts on the basis of the AR agreement it had with New Beginnings at the 
relevant time.
As such,  we dont  have jurisdiction to consider a complaint against Abana  about the advice  
Mr B gave to Mr C.
The arrangements  made  by Mr F.
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr Fs dealings with Mr C were either (1) in his 
capacity as an AR or agent of Abana,  (2) in his own unregulated capacity  (i.e. as [Mr F] 
Associates, or (3) as part of the New Beginnings Network.
The arrangements,  including  for the transfer of Mr Cs occupational pensions,  the 
transmission of Mr Cs application  for a SIPP  with Avalon and his application to ePortfolio 
Solutions, and effecting the investment in unregulated funds, were dealt with by Mr F. Avalon 
relied on the authority it understood him to have in these matters.
So, having  reviewed the evidence, I think the arrangements in Mr Cs introduction  to Avalon 
were conducted by Mr F on behalf  of Abana because:
-Key arrangements  were made by Mr F in April and mid-May 2014   this is before he 
told Avalon he was leaving Abana and provided new terms of business at the end of 
May 2014. Before  this time Mr F had been  submitting business to Avalon in his 
capacity as an agent of Abana and using that firms authorisation details.
-Further to the above, where  Mr Cs application paperwork required identification of 
the Financial  Adviser Firm Name, this was identified as Abana Lda.  
-Mr Cs testimony  is that when Mr B gave  him advice about his pension  
arrangements, he told him he worked for Mr F and that it was Mr F who handled  the 
SIPP investment matters.
Given what Ive seen  in this complaint and in other similar cases, Im satisfied Mr F arranged 
Mr Cs SIPP  with Avalon  while he was still an agent of Abana  (and not in his capacity as an 
unregulated introducer when he was purporting to seek  direct  authorisation for [Mr F] 
Associates, or as part of the New Beginnings Network).
Ref: DRN327605313did Abana accept responsibility for these arrangements under section 39(3)  FSMA?
I now need to consider  whether Mr F did in fact have authority to act on behalf of Abana in 
advising on and arranging Mr Cs SIPP with Avalon. Weve been provided with an 
agreement between Abana  and Mr F which purports to be an appointed  representative  
agreement. This was provided by Abana  when we first became involved in these cases  in 
February 2016. The agreement states  the following:
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 1st day of May 2013
BETWEEN:
(1) ABANA Lda, a company registered in Portugal under  number 510205410("the Company"); 
and 
(2) [Mr F] (a person) of [specified address] ("the  Appointed Representative or AR").
WHEREAS:
(1) The Company is in the business of international  wealth management, life assurance and 
general insurance mediation and is authorised and regulated by the Institute de Seguros de 
Portugal ("ISP") with registration number 412378472. The Company is authorised to conduct 
business in the UK under  the regime  of free provision  of services within the European Union and 
has been authorised as such by ISP and the Financial Services Authority ("FSA")  with FSA 
registration number  597069.
(2) The Company hereby  appoints  the AR as its appointed representative, subject to the terms of 
this agreement  whereby the Company shall authorise and the AR shall conduct the various  
activities defined herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  agreed  and discussed  between  the parties  on execution  of 
this agreement,  as amended  from time to time,  which  the parties  may further  clarify  in an 
annex  hereto,  in default  of which  such  activities  shall  include  activities  defined  in FSA 
Regulations  as insurance  mediation  activities  and designated  life assurance  business;
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any person  or 
persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the AR and any 
person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the annex  referred to in the agreement,  but I note that in 
default the agreement shall include activities defined in FSA Regulations as insurance  
mediation activities and designated life assurance  business,  so Ive taken this into 
consideration.
The agreement is signed by both parties.
I agree  with the conclusion of the investigator here. The arrangements made  in connection 
with the SIPP and the underlying investments for Mr C didnt constitute insurance mediation 
activities or life assurance business   both of which relate to contracts  of insurance. So, 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied the terms  of the AR agreement didnt 
authorise Mr F to conduct the arrangements that he carried  out for him.
Ref: DRN327605314As such,  I conclude Abana  didnt  accept responsibility in writing  under the statutory regime  
of section 39 (3) FSMA for Mr F to arrange this transaction in his capacity  as an AR of 
Abana. And, so it isnt responsible for the acts of Mr F in this case  on the basis of section 39 
FSMA.
In its response to this Service, Abana suggests  the AR agreement  is a fraud. It noted the 
font on the final signed page was different from the rest of document.  It says the agreement  
weve relied on didnt  have Mr Fs original (wet) signature on it. It says the agreement wasnt 
enforceable because it didnt have  all the elements required to be a valid contract. And that 
because it was void, it wasnt submitted to the FCA register  and therefore  Mr F didnt 
become a regulated AR of Abana.
Ive carefully considered  Abanas submission which has some merit. For example, I can see 
that the last page of the agreement  which contains the signatures  of the parties - is in a 
different font from the rest of the document.  And as Ive already acknowledged Mr F was 
never listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana.
However, Id note it was Abana  itself which provided the copy of the agreement  to us that it 
now asserts  is a fraud. In an email to this Service in 2016, responding to an enquiry about 
Mr Fs role with Abana,  it told us We have  not been able to locate a written agreement with 
[Mr F] as an individual. To this it attached the agreement. Later it explained it had meant it 
couldnt find a document  with his original  signature.
In a recent  submission, Abana said that when it spoke to one of our adjudicators in February 
2016, it made clear  it could only locate a copy of a terminated AR agreement and that he 
asked for it to be forwarded anyway. 
Abana seems  to be acknowledging that there  was an agreement, but that it was terminated. 
In any case, I cant find a recording of the conversation between it and the adjudicator  in 
February 2016. But Ive seen  an exchange of emails during that month  between  Abanas 
Director and the adjudicator. At no point was a terminated AR agreement  mentioned.  The 
exchange was focussed on understanding the nature of the relationship between it and Mr F.
I dont find Abanas arguments persuasive. When it first sent the AR agreement to us, it 
made no comment on its veracity or that what it was forwarding to us was a fraud. And it 
didnt say the document hadnt  been signed  by the parties. I wouldve expected Abana to 
have provided  this important commentary at the time, not four years later.
Im satisfied that the AR agreement  Ive seen is genuine and indicative of the relationship  
between Abana and Mr F. My conclusion is bolstered by what Abana  has told us about  its 
connection with him and the emails Ive seen between Abana and Mr F, and between Abana 
and Avalon which I set out in more detail  below.
Ill now go on to consider whether Abana may have given  Mr F authority to conduct  pensions 
business on its behalf under common law principles  of agency. This, as previously set out, is 
provided for under DISP  2.3.3 G.
Ref: DRN327605315was Abana responsible for the arrangements made by Mr F acting as its agent?
In analysing whether  there was an agency  arrangement I need  to understand what  was 
contracted between  the parties  in order to determine whether or not the relevant activities Mr 
F carried  out were within the scope of what had been authorised  and agreed to by Abana 
(i.e. had Abana given its actual authority for Mr F to carry  on those activities on its behalf?).
Leaving aside the AR agreement, there are several  other batches  of evidence that are 
important to my consideration here.
the pension activities  and arrangements Mr F was undertaking
Abanas told us that it knew  that Mr F was involved with pension  activities when it entered  
into a relationship with him. In 2016  it told us:
The relationship was that [Mr F] was a qualified IFA with a client  base that he had built up 
while he worked for [another advice firm] with [a SIPP operator] products. These clients  were 
transferred to Abana and he would  continue to assist those clients.  Abana obtained a [sic] 
agency with [the SIPP  operator] and provided  a home for his clients.  [Mr F] paid us £5880  
annually for this temporary  service as he said he was going  to be directly  authorised.  This 
agreement was superseded when  [Mr F] introduced New Beginnings Ltd who became an AR 
of Abana.
This demonstrates  that Abana expected Mr F to carry on pensions activities  and facilitated 
this by entering into an agency  agreement with a SIPP operator. Further, theres  a pattern of 
contemporaneous evidence which bolsters  my finding that Abana  knew Mr F had a 
significant and ongoing involvement in pension activities, acting on its behalf.
For example, Ive seen  a letter dated  November 2013 from Abana to one of Avalons 
competitor SIPP providers  relating to bank  details for the payment  of commission to each of 
Abanas appointed representative / sub-agency - Mr F is identified as one of these. Abana 
says this was provided in preparation for the fees generated by the existing SIPP client 
base.
Theres an email exchange in early March 2014  between the same parties, in which the 
SIPP provider requests an urgent meeting with Abana. It writes:
I need  to get our meeting in the diary. We have a number of questions to ask which  really  
are just for us to get a better understanding of Abana, where  you get your leads from and the 
way you implement your compliance  and oversight.  We now have a fair number of cases 
introduced by [Mr F] and we just need  to monitor the relationship.
And Abana responds:
We have tried to coordinate a meeting with Mr F but he is leaving  on two weeks holiday 
from Friday and is fully bookedwe understand [Mr Fs] clients are from referrals. All case  
fact finds and notes  are uploaded to our secure  client portal to be reviewed  by our 
compliance and available  to the client
Abana says this communication  related to business  Mr F transferred from other advisory  
firms. However,  I think the exchange  shows the SIPP provider understood the relationship  to 
be that Mr F was working on behalf  of Abana and it was attributing  the business Mr F was 
submitting to it as being business  done  on behalf  of Abana as principal.
Ref: DRN327605316Furthermore, I think it shows  Abana was aware of the significant  number of pension 
business introductions Mr F was making  on its behalf. And that it tried to give the SIPP  
provider assurances  about the records it was keeping for all the clients (fact finds and notes)  
and the compliance  arrangements  it had in place to check things were  being done correctly.
Interestingly, theres correspondence between Abana and Mr F in April 2014 about  the 
nature of the services he was providing.  Abana says this appears to be in relation to a 
suitability report of an existing transferred  SIPP. Its Director says this was a personal  email, 
and Mr F appears to want feedback because he mayve provided  similar  opinions  for Mr F 
when he worked  at a former company.
In the email Abanas Director tells Mr F (my emphasis):
Ive had compliance  read through the SL report and here are their comments re investment. 
I should add that we should tell the clients we are not regulated  to give advice on funds and 
they should seek further assistance if they do not want to do it themselves. Let me know  
what you suggest please?
This doesnt seem to me to be a personal exchange.  And I dont find Abanas explanation to 
be credible. I think the email is reflective of Abana giving  Mr F guidance on how he should  
be constructing the suitability reports for what were  effectively its clients,  following a review 
by its compliance team.  Its quite directive  in tone and suggestive of a principal / agent 
relationship.
The advice from Abanas compliance function to Mr F focusses on investment funds. There  
was no similar concern  expressed about the pension advice or arrangements Mr F was 
making. Otherwise, I wouldve expected this to have  been made clear as well.
I think taken together,  this package of evidence demonstrates the following:
-The written agreement between  Abana and Mr F shows that there  was a relationship 
between the parties under which they anticipated that Mr F would carry out certain  
activities on behalf of Abana.
-Unlike the requirements of section 39 FSMA,  Abana  and Mr F could agree in a more 
informal way that Mr F had authority to conduct  pensions business on behalf of 
Abana, such as through the dealings between the parties. Im satisfied  based  on the 
evidence that Abana  was aware  of, and consented  to, Mr F carrying  on these  
pension activities on its behalf  and that consensual agreement  to conduct these 
activities can be gleaned from the dealings between the parties.
-Mr F was not directly authorised by the FCA. The communications  between Abana 
and Mr F that I have set out above  show that Abana entered  into a relationship with 
Mr F so that he could continue to provide  advice  to clients on the basis of Abanas 
authorisation (they would become Abanas  clients  who Mr F would continue  to assist 
with). And it shows that Abana knew Mr F was providing advice to consumers to 
open SIPPs, in fact it entered into terms of business with a SIPP  operator  so that Mr 
F could provide  the same for clients.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F did have Abanas actual authority to undertake pension activities, 
including arranging SIPPs,  on its behalf. 
Ref: DRN327605317payments made by Avalon  for business  generated by Mr F.
Avalon told us its records showed that commission payments for business  introduced  by Mr 
F before the end of May 2014  were  paid directly to Abana. Ive seen paperwork to this effect,  
with charges for Mr Cs SIPP appearing on the April, May and June 2014  statements. Abana 
is shown as the introducer and the total payment (which included charges  for multiple  
clients) was due to it. But unfortunately, its not that straightforward.
I can also see that from April 2014  Mr F was liaising with Avalon to clarify what commission  
payments were being made  they appeared to be coming through as a lump  sum and he 
couldnt work out how the payments related to different clients. 
Mr F asked  Avalon for more information about  the transactions.  He says the payment side 
was done from Portugal (where the main Abana group is based), so it was important for him 
to get a better breakdown  of what the payments represented. Avalon appears  to have acted 
on his request to ensure he received a copy of future commission  statements  to his own 
business address.
Communications between  Mr F and Avalon continued through  May and June  2014  and 
increasingly became  about remuneration arrangements  following his planned establishment  
of [Mr F] Associates.  And then when this didnt work  out, there were  discussions about 
channelling payments to the New Beginnings network. It was agreed  that fees would go 
direct to him in future, subject to certain conditions being met.
The position  gets muddled for several  reasons.  Avalon started withholding  some  commission  
payments to Abana, giving  Mr F an opportunity  to get his clients to sign letters of authority 
(LOA) to transfer oversight of their SIPP affairs from Abana  to his new agency.
Its clear getting the LOAs in place was problematic. And this may shed light on Abanas 
testimony when it says it didnt receive  payments from Avalon in respect of certain 
transactions. I think the following  email from Avalon to Mr F from September  2014  is 
instructive:
We are being chased by Abana to supply them  with details of adviser charges paid in the 
last quarter.  As you know we have  held back payments to them  pending receipt of LOA 
from you for 13 clients but we are now being put in a difficult  position with regards  to 
payment on these. Can I have your thoughts.  We will have  little choice other  than to make 
payment to them if we cant have the LOAs in the very near future.
Ive thought carefully about what all this means.  Consistent with what  Ive set-out elsewhere, 
I think this information  supports  my finding  that Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana until the 
end of May 2014,  even though he appears to be hatching plans to work  on his own account 
prior to this. I think  Abana was expecting payments to flow back  to it for this business, as it 
had done with other transactions,  and when it didnt it queried  the position  with Avalon.
Again, I think  this demonstrates  that Mr F was given actual authority to undertake pension 
activities on behalf of Abana as it expected to be paid for introductions that Mr F was making 
to Avalon.
Ref: DRN327605318the independent review  of pension transactions attributed to Abana 
Abana acknowledged the outcome of an independent review into several cases  that are now 
being dealt with by this Service, which concluded Mr F had been  responsible  for unsuitable 
advice he gave and the arrangements he made for the transfer  of pension funds into the 
Avalon SIPPs, and therein the investment in unregulated funds. In order  to pay the redress  
due, it made  a claim on its professional indemnity insurance. So, at one stage it appeared to 
accept responsibility  for the things Mr F had done  wrong.
But Abana now says that its initial offer to pay redress wasnt an admission that it had got 
something wrong. It says it felt under an obligation following the FCAs intervention.  It said 
the review work conducted by the regulatory  compliance consultancy was flawed. It makes  
various allegations, including that the review relied  on incomplete and false information 
provided by Avalon.
Ive thought about what Abana has said here.  I dont find its arguments  convincing. If the 
review work was fatally flawed, then Im surprised it made a claim to its insurers on that 
basis. And it hasnt provided  any evidence of its assertions.
Actually, from what Ive seen I think its more likely Abanas later retraction of the offer of 
redress had more to do with its professional indemnity insurer rejecting its claim to cover the 
compensation costs.  I note in December 2017  it wrote to the FCA in the following terms:
Since the FCA is of the opinion  thatour PI insurers,  will not be able to cover any redress  
by virtue of the fact that [Mr F] was acting outside the remit of regulated activity, the victims  
are thus left in the unfortunate and unfair position  of not being  able to receive any redress 
whatsoever.
Ensuring its agents were  only given authority to operate within the scope of its own 
permissions was Abanas responsibility. As Ive already  set out, it was aware of what 
activities Mr F was undertaking.  Even if it didnt realise what  he was doing would have the 
effect of nullifying its insurance cover  because the activities  fell outside the scope of Abanas 
permissions, it should have realised this.
So, I think Abanas initial acceptance of the review process and the redress proposals is 
significant and is another  indication that it had in fact given Mr F authority to act on its behalf 
in arranging SIPPs, such as Mr Cs.
Abanas website
Abanas website  around the time of the events  complained about appears to have shown  Mr 
F listed  as a pensions/financial adviser and part of The Abana  Team. It includes a photo  of 
an individual that purports to be him. We obtained  this information from an online resource.  
Mr Fs details remained  on the Abana website until at least December 2014.
Abana disputes these matters. For example, it says the historic website pages  referenced 
were draft. It says Mr Fs description is incomplete and this shows  he didnt make  it onto the 
Abana team. It told us the supposed  photo  of Mr F wasnt him.
Abanas argument here has some merit. Ive checked and the image that appeared on its 
website wasnt Mr F. And I dont know whether Mr Fs details were  published  externally  or as 
Abana suggests the pages  were just draft.
Ref: DRN327605319However, in the context  of everything  else Ive seen, I find the fact the web pages exist at all 
is in itself significant and more likely than not reflective of a close association between  the 
parties. And it therefore bolsters the evidence that Mr F was acting with Abanas  actual  
authority in conducting pensions activities such as arranging SIPPs.  
Taking all these matters together with the other  information Ive already set-out in this 
decision, theres a weight  of evidence and argument here. And Im satisfied this 
demonstrates Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana.
I think Abana was aware of, expected, facilitated,  guided and benefitted  from the activities  
Mr F was undertaking, including giving advice on and making arrangements  for SIPPs.  I 
think Mr F had its actual  authority to do this on its behalf. So, I think Abana is responsible for 
Mr Fs acts and omissions.
The arrangements  in this case involved more than just pensions  business   Mr F also made 
arrangements for the ePortfolio Solutions bond  and unregulated investments, for example 
including his details  on Mr Cs application  form and liaising with that business  on his behalf.  
But, even  if Abana didnt  give its actual  authority for Mr F to conduct these matters  (and only 
intended him to be carrying  on pension business), theres well established case  law that if 
theres one act that was authorised by the principal,  we may be able to look at other acts 
linked to it.
In Martin v Britannia [1999]  EWHC 852 (Ch) (21 December 1999) and Tenetconnect 
Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman  and another  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) (13 March  
2018), the courts held that advice couldnt be confined to one part of an overall  transaction 
and that acts can be intrinsically linked.  I agree  with the investigator  when he says this 
case is analogous.  The arrangement of the SIPP and the subsequent investments in 
unregulated funds were  so closely connected that they were  intrinsically linked   part of the 
same transaction.
So, I think Abana can be held responsible for the arrangement of the transfer  of Mr Cs 
occupational pension schemes  into the Avalon SIPP and the investments in unregulated 
funds, which  together  ultimately resulted in the financial  loss hes suffered.
my conclusions on jurisdiction
I conclude this is a complaint  that this Service can consider.  In summary this is because: 
-Mr Cs complaint is about both the advice and the arrangements  for the transfer  of 
his occupational pension provisions to the Avalon SIPP and the investments made 
therein. So, its a complaint about  regulated activities.
-We dont have  jurisdiction to consider his complaint about the advice  he received 
from Mr B because  theres not enough  evidence that he provided this advice on 
behalf of Abana either as an appointed  representative or agent.
-We can consider Mr Cs complaint  about  the arrangements made by Mr F. This is 
because Im satisfied that he arranged Mr Cs pension transfer to a SIPP with Avalon 
and the investments in the Kijani  and SAMAIF funds as an agent  with the actual 
authority of Abana. Im therefore satisfied that Abana is responsible for his acts and 
omissions in this regard.
Ref: DRN327605320considering the merits of Mr Cs compliant 
As Im satisfied this Service has jurisdiction  to consider Mr Cs complaint about  Abana in 
relation to the arrangements made by Mr F, Ive gone on to consider all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. And, after careful consideration,  Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The documentation  I have  from around the time of the events is incomplete. Abana  provided 
very little information about Mr Cs case.  For example, Ive not seen a fact find covering his 
circumstances, nor a record of his objectives for his pension arrangements. Theres  no 
document which captures Mr Cs attitude to risk. And I havent seen a suitability report  with 
recommendations.
Mr C provided  us with testimony  about  what he could recall  from the time when he was given  
advice to transfer his occupational pension funds into the Avalon SIPP.
Concerning the testimony of both parties, I generally give more weight to what  theyve told 
us the more contemporaneous it is with the events  complained about. Thats because it 
tends to give a more accurate account of events given the effect  of the passage of time and 
the potential for the benefit  of hindsight to colour matters.
Fortunately, weve been able to obtain  some relevant paperwork from other sources,  
including the firm which took over as Mr Cs SIPP provider after Avalon ceased  trading. As 
previously established,  and consistent with other  cases Ive seen, this has been important in 
evidencing the role Mr F played on behalf  of Abana in bringing about the transfer of his 
pension fund, the establishing of his SIPP and the investment in unregulated funds.
While there s conflicting  information about  what happened in 2014 and many gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whats  most  likely to have  happened.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Cs case? 
The first thing I want to consider in relation to Mr Cs complaint is the extensive  regulation  
around transactions like those performed  by Mr F who Im satisfied was acting as Abanas  
agent. The FCA Handbook  contains  eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
Ref: DRN327605321The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Abana. As such, I need  to have regard to them in 
deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
did Abana, through the acts and omissions of Mr F, adhere to the regulatory requirements  
placed on it in effecting the transfer of Mr Cs occupational pension funds into a SIPP?
In short,  I dont think Abana met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Mr C had been working in the same industry  for around 35 years.  He was a member  of three 
occupational pension schemes.  Aside from any state pension  entitlement, these schemes 
held the totality of his retirement provision.
Mr C was approached  by Mr B out of the blue  in 2014, offering to give him advice about  his 
pension arrangements. Mr B said he worked  for Abana. He also said he worked for Mr F 
who was responsible investment matters. Mr C never met Mr F. Nor did he meet Ms B who 
he understood processed the paperwork.
Mr C had known Mr B him for many years. Hed previously received advice from him on life 
insurance, car insurance and mortgage endowments.  Hed been happy with how those 
things had turned out. So, he thought  he had reason to trust Mr B and what  he said.
Mr B visited  Mr C on at least  3 occasions. He gave  him his Abana business  card and a 
brochure showing historic  investment  returns for certain funds. He invited Mr C to research 
Abana online so he could  see it was an established  organisation of good repute.
Mr B asked if Mr C would be interested in moving  his pension. Mr C says he saw the 
potential benefit  of getting more  flexibility in his pension arrangements.  For example, the 
possibility of taking  early retirement, say when he reached 55. And he wanted to access  
25% tax-free cash (TFC).
Ref: DRN327605322Mr C said Mr B knew about  his situation  from their association. He says Mr B wouldve 
known he didnt want to put money  into anything that was a risk. After all the years of 
service, hed built up a pension fund worth around  £171k. Mr C was single and had modest 
savings at the time.
In responding  to the investigators  view at the end of February this year, Abana provided us 
with a copy of the questionnaire he was asked to complete in 2015 by the consultancy  firm 
looking into the suitability  of the pension  transfer.  Its consistent  with what  Mr C has told us 
about his cautious attitude to risk and retirement objectives.
I find Mr Cs testimony  plausible  and persuasive.  And I think its of note that Abana has 
never made the case that the transfer of the entirety  of Mr Cs pension pot into the Avalon 
SIPP and investments in unregulated funds was an appropriate or fair transaction.
As we know,  Mr Cs investments were  made  via a bond with a business called ePortfolio 
Solutions into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds, which were based overseas and unregulated.  
Unfortunately, by 2015 theyd been  suspended leaving Mr C facing substantial  losses.
Abana told us that following the intervention of the FCA a consultancy service  specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out a review of the suitability of certain 
pension advice and arrangements it had been associated with. This included Mr Cs case.
I think its telling this specialist independent  third party concluded in February 2016 that Mr F, 
on behalf of Abana, had been  responsible  for what had happened.  And it set out how Abana 
should put things right. As we know it ultimately failed to act on the outcome of the review.
For the reasons  I set out earlier in this decision,  theres not enough evidence to conclude  
that Mr B provided the advice to Mr C on behalf of Abana, so Im unable  to say its 
responsible to him for that advice.
However, I think Mr F had a close association with Mr B. Not only were they both 
shareholders in New Beginnings,  testimony suggests Mr B worked for Mr F during 2014.  It 
seems Mr B passed the applications hed prepared  with Mr C at his home back  to the office 
for finalising.
Mr Fs details were  included on Mr Cs ePortfolio  Solutions application, which  gave effect to 
him making  investments in unregulated funds. Both this and his SIPP  application were 
signed by Ms B and had Abanas  details on. Mr F transmitted  the applications and dealt with 
follow-up queries. And I can see Avalon dealt with Mr F as the key contact in this 
transaction.
Given their close  working relationship, I think Mr F wouldve, or at the very least  shouldve, 
known that Mr B wasnt covered by the same agency arrangement  he had with Abana.  So, 
Mr C was being exposed  to the risks associated with receiving unregulated advice. Not least  
a lack of access to effective dispute resolution  and redress.
Ive seen a communication between Abana and Mr F from around the same  time he was 
arranging Mr Cs transfer in April 2014,  which I think is also relevant here. In this email 
exchange Abana provides  feedback to Mr F about his approach to suitability reports. This 
was provided by its compliance function  and it appears to demonstrate Mr Fs practices were 
lacking.
Ref: DRN327605323Theres nothing to show Mr F made  enquiries about  the advice Mr C had received from Mr B 
concerning the transfer of his occupational pension funds, the establishment of his SIPP or 
the underlying  funds  he was investing  in. Before  proceeding with the arrangements,  I 
wouldve expected  him to have satisfied himself on these matters.
Mr F mustve been aware that Mr C received no documents in relation the advice he was 
given by Mr B. It appears he made no enquiries at all to satisfy himself  that the transfer, 
SIPP and investments were in fact suitable for before making arrangements.
So, Mr F wasnt acting with due skill, care or diligence when  he effected Mr Cs transfer of 
his pension funds  into his Avalon SIPP and the unregulated funds. He was in breach of 
Principle 2 and therefore so was Abana.
Abanas response to this Service  has largely focussed on why it wasnt  responsible  for what  
had happened, and how it was the fault of others.  Its failed to engage with the merits of this 
case, despite clear  evidence  of the relationship it had with Mr F. I wont rehearse the 
arguments already  made in my decision,  but Ive concluded that Mr F was acting as an 
agent of Abana with its actual authority to arrange SIPPs.
In permitting Mr F to conduct  pensions  business Abana wouldve known or at the very least 
shouldve known that such activity was outside  of its regulatory permissions which were 
restricted to insurance mediation  activities. It didnt  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.  And 
this is a breach  of Principle 3.
Theres no evidence Mr C was an experienced or sophisticated investor. Indeed,  as Ive set 
out, quite the reverse. A small amount of due diligence wouldve exposed the arrangements 
being made for him as inappropriate.
Mr F made arrangements  for the transfer  of Mr Cs entire pension provisions into a SIPP, 
which would be dealing in unregulated  investments. He was the lead actor in the 
arrangement of his SIPP  using  Abanas FCA authorisation. He transmitted the necessary 
applications. In doing so, he led Avalon to believe Mr C had been advised on the transaction  
and that this activity  was done with Abanas  authority.
In doing all this, Mr F wouldve been aware  Mr C was being exposed to significant risks in 
the investments  he was facilitating. He wouldve known unregulated funds could be Illiquid, 
meaning Mr C might  have difficulty getting access to his money. The funds were  highly  
specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And they were subject to 
valuation uncertainty.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F didnt act honestly, fairly and professionally, and in accordance  
with Mr Cs best interests, in relation to designated investment  business  he was carrying  out. 
He breached Principle 6 and COBS 2.1.1R, and Abana is responsible  for his acts and 
omissions.
So, to conclude I dont  think  the transfer of Mr Cs occupational pension  funds into the 
Avalon SIPP  and the unregulated investments with the Kijani  and SAMAIF funds could 
sensibly be regarded as fair to him. As such I think Mr F, as Abanas agent, failed to meet  
the regulatory requirements Ive set out when making these arrangements. So, taking all the 
circumstances of the case into account,  its fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint  
against Abana, and for Abana to put things  right.
Ref: DRN327605324putting things right
Im upholding Mr Cs case. So, he needs  to be returned to the position he wouldve  been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
Abana responsible for.
If Abana had done everything it shouldve,  I dont think Mr C wouldve transferred his 
occupational pension monies  into an Avalon SIPP, and so he wouldnt have suffered the 
financial loss hes experienced. I think its most likely  he wouldve left his pensions where 
they were.
So, Abana needs to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate the loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the transfer
Abana should undertake  a redress calculation in line with the Pension Review  methodology, 
as amended by the FCA in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out using the 
most recent financial assumptions published at the date of the actual calculation.
Abana will need to contact the Department  for Work  and Pensions to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include any SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  which  will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
 
The calculation should take account of the value  of any cash  held in the SIPP  currently.
My understanding is that Mr C hasnt taken any tax-free cash or drawdowns,  nor has he 
made any additional contributions.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Cs 
former occupational pension  schemes  and the current value of his SIPP (see step 2) will be 
his basic financial loss that Abana needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Mr Cs SIPP and avoid  ongoing  fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To do 
this Abana  should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing  to accept as a 
commercial value for the investments  and Abana can then pay this to take ownership of 
them.
If Abana is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investments,  the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of the loss calculation.  In this instance, where  Abana  has provided  full 
redress in accordance with my instructions,  then it may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking 
to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the 
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP.
Abana will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for 
tax 
Ref: DRN327605325If compensation is paid into Mr Cs SIPP, payment should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief,  so that he is in the same  position as if hed stayed in his original 
occupational pension schemes.  
If paying compensation into Mr Cs SIPP would conflict  with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Abana takes on him investments, then it should 
pay him compensation as a cash sum. In doing  so it should make  a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. 
25% of the loss should be tax-free,  and the remaining  75% taxed according to Mr Cs likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this.
 
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Cs SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid,  Abana  should  pay him an amount equivalent to five years  of future fees.  This 
should allow  enough time for the issues with the investments  to be dealt with, and for them  
to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Abana wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain  an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Abana fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr C should  then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
I also think Mr C has been caused  upset as a result  of Abanas actions. The sudden loss of 
his pension funds  wouldve  come as a shock to him and has clearly  had a significant impact.  
In recognition of this it should pay him £500 for the trouble and upset hes experienced. 
putting things right  summary
I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business, given the regulations  that 
apply in this case, of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and costs  I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is or could be more than the £150,000 limit, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I consider that fair compensation  should  be calculated  as set out 
above (steps  1-5). My decision is that Abana  Unipessoal  Lda should pay Mr C the amount 
produced by those  calculations  - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations of fair compensation 
exceeds £150,000, I recommend that Abana Unipessoal Lda pays Mr C the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Abana  Unipessoal Lda 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for any balance. Mr C may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  my final decision.
Ref: DRN327605326my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. I require Abana 
Unipessoal Lda to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of Mr Cs acceptance  of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3276053