K820x#14complaint
Mr C made  a number of complaint points relating to his joint bank account operated by 
National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest). 
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) about this complaint in February 2020, 
setting out why I thought it should be partially upheld.   And I asked both parties to provide 
any further submissions or information  to me within one month.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve had responses from both parties. 
NatWest accepts my provisional  decision and agrees to the redress Ive suggested, but Mr C 
doesnt agree. He still thinks all his points  should be upheld.
Ive looked very carefully at the five points Mr C has made in response to my provisional  
decision and Im very grateful for the time he has taken to do this. However, this complaint 
has gone on for a while  now and I have  already comprehensively  addressed  all the points 
raised by Mr C in his latest response. I accept and understand that Mr C doesnt agree with 
me and Im sorry hes unhappy.
On one hand, NatWest  hasnt  been able to send  me specific proof that it fully complied with 
its accounts terms and conditions which say If we are going to charge you an Unarranged  
Overdraft Usage  Fee or an Unpaid Transaction Fee, we will give you not less than 14 days' 
notice of how much we are going to charge you and when.
However, on the other hand, I think its also fair to point out that the evidence in this 
complaint points very strongly to Mr C understanding NatWests  charging regime.  He 
understood he would be charged, roughly by how much and generally when the charges 
would occur. He also received correspondence from the bank regularly for unpaid  
transaction fee[s], arranged overdraft usage and unarranged overdraft  usage  over many 
months. On a significant number of occasions Mr C was written  to by NatWest  offering 
advice on how and where bank charge information could be found and he received 
generalised advice about overdraft control.  
I therefore take into account the information and assistance hes been  given and his obvious 
knowledge and experience about  his bank account and how it operated. I also take note of 
the personal responsibility Mr C has in managing  his own affairs,  a point that was robustly 
made by NatWest.
In coming to a final decision, I have noted  that Mr Cs NatWest bank account  has been 
frequently overdrawn throughout the time period which his complaints cover. I noted he also 
made similar previous complaints about charges going back  some years and was 
corresponded with in detail. He settled a similar  complaint back  in 2017. 
what NatWest  should do to put things  right
Overall, as I explained in my provisional decision, I think  its clear that Mr C has been 
accurately charged  in accordance with the rules  of his account.  But as Ive described before, 
Ref: DRN38912002there isnt strong enough evidence that the specific notice period about charges as per the 
accounts terms and conditions were complied with  or at least NatWest hasnt proved 
otherwise. 
To some degree therefore, I think he would have experienced an inconvenience  in trying to 
manage his money  on a tight budget. For that, Im directing that NatWest should  pay Mr C 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
Im partly upholding Mr Cs complaint  and direct National Westminster Bank plc to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision 2 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN38912003summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr C has made  a number of complaint points relating  to his joint bank account. 
(a)His primary cause for complaint is the apparent failure of NatWest to issue a charge 
notification as per his bank  accounts  terms and conditions. He says, for example, that the 
letters for unauthorised overdraft charges  merely state that NatWest will charge a certain  
amount per day, but with no notification as to how many  days  they are going to charge for and 
when the charges  will be put through. On this basis Mr C says he cant calculate how much 
NatWest will be charging him and he finds it difficult to manage his account because  hes on a 
low budget.
(b)Mr C made some  general observations about the charges he incurred and whether these  
were reasonable.  
(c)Mr C also complains that NatWest applies charges to his account  in such a way as to post-
date them from the previous day, he says, in order  to sneak in a days unauthorised 
overdraft charge. He provides some examples of balance and transaction  data on his bank 
account directly after the midnight period.  He alleges these charges  are manipulated to the 
wrong side of midnight to draw out further charges from consumers  like him.
(d)His final allegation  is that he has a disability which NatWest has failed to take account of in its 
dealings with him.
background
Ive looked carefully at all the allegations  Mr C makes and Im very sorry  its taken a while  to get to 
this stage. Nevertheless, weve tried hard to keep him updated with whats going in the interim period. 
I can see our investigator  has corresponded  with Mr C quite  a few times and issued a view some time 
ago saying he didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by making a general observation  that Mr Cs NatWest bank account  has been frequently  
overdrawn throughout the time period which these  complaints cover. Indeed, I can see he made 
similar previous complaints about charges going  back some years  where he was corresponded  with 
in detail. I see he settled a similar  complaint  back in 2017. 
I also think  theres comprehensive evidence that NatWest has explained  to Mr C several times,  over 
quite a few years that at the end of the monthly charging period hed be charged for any unarranged 
overdraft fees or an unpaid transaction  fees when  these types  of situations arose. I think theres  also 
good evidence that he was previously helped and signposted to where and how to obtain information 
and help about general banking  issues, potential charges,  monitoring his account and managing  his 
money. 
Ref: DRN38912004Theres also compelling  evidence that Mr C does actually  monitor his account  closely and very 
regularly. So I think all this paints  a picture of Mr C broadly understanding his bank accounts rules 
and conditions.  Because  of this awareness, I think he could relatively easily work  out that going 
overdrawn and / or missing payments, such as direct debits, would result in a cost of some sort. I 
think hed also know roughly what those costs  would  be and roughly  when they would most  probably  
be applied.
However, NatWest  hasnt been able to send me proof that it complied  with its accounts terms and 
conditions. These specifically  say If we are going to charge you an Unarranged Overdraft  Usage Fee 
or an Unpaid Transaction Fee, we will give you not less than 14 days' notice of how much we are 
going to charge you and when. Ive been asking NatWest for a while to provide evidence  of such a 
notice being sent out to Mr C but since being in touch  the bank has really only made two somewhat 
generalised points by way of a response. 
Firstly it provided essentially  what Ive said above  i.e. evidence showing Mr C has a history of being  
overdrawn, missing payments and being charged accordingly. NatWest also reiterated that Mr C very 
regularly used  the on-line  banking app to monitor his account and it highlighted what is therefore  
likely to be his awareness of the charges that followed  from him being overdrawn and missing 
payments. 
Secondly NatWest said that it always gives customers advance notice  of any charges being taken 
from their account to prevent  the scenario  of charges  on charges. So in this sense, NatWest  is 
basically saying it complies with the accounts terms and conditions which Ive summarised above. It 
has recently sent me an example of the type of letter  it says would  have been sent out.
However, whilst Im grateful for the information NatWest has sent me to date, Im afraid  it hasnt been 
able to show  me a copy of the actual correspondence it says it would have sent to Mr C explaining 
how much  he will be charged and the date its expected to come out of his account.  Nor has it been 
able to provide me with anything  which would confirm  that such  a letter  was sent out to Mr C. In this 
respect therefore, its second  point  is only a generalised one. 
Mr Cs main issue here is that he wasnt receiving the proper notice of the charges. The various  
correspondence we have on file about this says he may be charged,  and we will send you a 
notification of the fees due and we will then take them from your account.  As  far as I can see, we still 
have nothing  to show that NatWest did give that notice. The on-line Act Now alerts  explain how to 
avoid charges; they dont say what is going to be charged and when,  and this is important for people  
to know  so they can properly manage their accounts and avoid charges on charges.
What Ive been asking to see is evidence  of what Mr C was sent. Weve  waited quite a while for this 
and so Im considering upholding this part of Mr Cs complaint which Ill explain more  about  at the 
end. Having looked at the example letters  NatWest  said Mr C would have  been sent,  these are 
somewhat helpful, but Im afraid I still dont understand why it cant show me evidence that these 
letters were actually sent to Mr C.
Ill now turn to the three other issues.  For the second point of the complaint,  about  whether the 
charges were reasonable, as our investigator  has already explained to Mr C, in 2009  the Supreme  
Court decided  that unauthorised overdraft  charges  (as many of the charges on Mr Cs account were)  
couldnt be challenged  for being too high. It also said that these charges were in effect part of the 
price a customer agreed to pay for a range  of services,  for example unauthorised use of the overdraft.  
The courts couldnt therefore  say those charges were  unfair simply because  they appeared to be 
high. And so I dont think it would be right for me to say these  sorts  of charges on Mr Cs account 
were too high.  
Ref: DRN38912005For the third point of complaint, about the overnight charges, I certainly dont intend to conduct  a 
forensic analysis of the overnight transactions in Mr Cs account. But I think its fair to say there is 
ample evidence which shows he has been well aware  for some time that he is frequently  in an 
overdraft situation  both authorised and not authorised  and that NatWest has been consistently 
pointing out that direct debits have not been paid due to the lack of available balance in his account. 
However, on the statements  Ive looked at, I can see no consistent pattern  of Mr C being charged for 
something he ought not to be charged for. All the examples given  seem to relate where charges were 
due. So Im not intending  to uphold  this part of his complaint.
Finally, for the complaint  in relation to the disability issue, I find no evidence  that this was ever 
disclosed by Mr C to NatWest so I dont think it did anything wrong.  I also note it was a joint account 
and my understanding is that NatWest  has since  recorded the information  about  Mr Cs disability on 
the account.  I would recommend him to engage  with his bank  on this matter if he has additional needs 
or expectations. I dont uphold this part either.
summary
I do understand Mr C feels strongly  about  his points of complaint and Ive looked at them  with care.  
But in my view,  I think what we are essentially left with a situation where there appears to be an 
abundance of Mr C monitoring his account regularly  and being well aware  that charges are likely  to be 
applied around a given date. I think in terms of any harm caused to him this is relevant.
All the evidence points, for example, to Mr C understanding the charging regime  and what  / when 
would be applied by way of charges. I note he received correspondence from the bank regularly for 
unpaid transaction fee[s], arranged  overdraft usage and unarranged  overdraft usage. I also note 
that on a significant number of occasions Mr C was written to by NatWest with letters  being  headed  
up, for example, as We wanted to let you know you went into an unarranged overdraft. The letters  
referred to the issues prompting a charge and they offered advice on how and where the bank 
charges could  be found.  Some  generalised advice about  overdraft  control  was also provided. 
Nevertheless, as Ive said, NatWest hasnt been able to show me it complied with the terms and 
conditions set on Mr Cs account by telling him how much hed be charged and when this would  leave 
his account.  I dont want  to give Mr C any false hope but if I dont  receive  this type of evidence, which 
NatWest previously indicated could  be produced, then Ill consider upholding  this part of Mr Cs 
complaint. 
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to partly uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct National Westminster  Bank to pay 
the compensation as outlined above . 
I now ask if either party wants to say anything  more  they should  send in any arguments or evidence  
before 28 March 2020.  
Ref: DRN3891200