K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains he received poor service  from Santander UK Plc when he tried to change  
details on an account held with it.
background
Mr J says when he was appointed treasurer  of a club, he contacted Santander to be added 
as a signatory  to the clubs account.  He says he provided proof of identity but Santander 
didnt accept this and instead  wanted  a copy of the club minutes authorising  the change. He 
thinks this was unnecessary and not in line with the information hed previously been given. 
Mr Js also unhappy that after the account was updated, Santander wrote to the previous 
treasurer about the change. He feels this was a breach  of the accounts data security. And 
he says Santander  sent him new cards for the account at the same time as the letters 
enclosing the new PINs.  He feels this was a security  risk in addition  to the cards not being 
suitable for what he needed.  Hed like Santander  to compensate him for all the 
inconvenience hes had.
Santander didnt  agree with Mr Js complaint. It said it had to ensure that any change was 
properly authorised and the information  it had asked  for was to ensure this was correct. The 
letter sent after the change was part of its anti-fraud  but it didnt agree this had disclosed  any 
confidential information. With regard to the new account cards,  it said it had sent the ones Mr 
J had asked for on the change of signatory form but it had now sent a different card so this 
issue was now resolved.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Santander had asked for the 
additional information as part of its internal systems to prevent fraud and we couldnt 
interfere with that. But the change  of signatory form had made clear what documents would 
be required  (which in the case of a club or association would include signed  minutes),  so she 
felt Mr J would have  been aware of this. And once Santander had the necessary  information, 
it had acted straight away to update the account details so she didnt agree it had caused 
any unnecessary delay. 
With regard to the letter sent after this, Santander had explained this was part of the banks 
anti-fraud measures  and was generated automatically when the account  details  were  
changed. While it wasnt for this office  to make a formal decision on whether thered been a 
breach of data security,  shed  seen  the letter and couldnt see it had disclosed  anything 
confidential. In the circumstances she wouldnt be asking Santander to do anything  more to 
resolve this complaint.
Mr J disagreed and said in summary:
Santander had been provided with all the necessary information to allow it to add him 
to the account  and he felt it had caused  unnecessary inconvenience in doing so. 
Any anti-fraud letter  should have been sent before the change, not after,  so he 
remained of the view this was a breach of the accounts data security. 
He asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the event theres  no clear information  
Ref: DRN32048702on any particular point,  Ive made  my decision on the balance of probabilities,  or what might 
be termed whats  more  likely than not to have happened. 
I know this isnt the decision Mr J was hoping for but having  reviewed  this complaint I wont  
be asking Santander  to do anything more as Ill now explain.
Its clear Mr Js unhappy at the way Santander dealt with the change of details on the club 
account for which hed been appointed  a signatory. He feels it gave  him incorrect information 
causing delay  and inconvenience,  breached the accounts data security and sent him the 
incorrect cards for the account. Ill look at these in turn.
Change of details:
Santander like all banks is required to have in place robust measures to avoid fraud. As a 
part of that its entitled to ensure any changes are properly  authorised by the account holder.  
The steps it takes to do this is a commercial one for the bank so I cant tell Santander what  
measures it should  put in place but its not uncommon on accounts  of this type to ask for a 
copy of the minutes  to confirm that any changes  have  been properly authorised  so I dont 
think that was unreasonable.
Ive seen Mr J says he was told initially he wouldnt  have  to provide the club minutes to 
confirm this. I havent seen anything to confirm this but I have seen the change of signatory 
form completed by Mr J and can see this makes clear any change must be supported  by a 
copy of the relevant minutes. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Santander had adequately 
explained what information it would require and, for that reason, I cant reasonably  say it was 
wrong not to act until this was done.  I accept Mr Js frustration at what he saw to be an 
unnecessary delay but I dont think Santanders  approach was unusual  or unreasonable  or 
that it was responsible for any delay in this case.
Change of details  letter
As Santanders explained this letter is another part of its security measures to ensure any 
change has been  properly authorised. As Mr J has now referred  this point  to the information 
Commissioners Office  I wont  comment on that further other than to say its a standard 
measure. And as the letter  was sent to the correct address of the previous signatory who 
had also authorised the minute approving Mr Js appointment  and was therefore aware of 
the change, I cant see that theres been any impact from the letter.
Incorrect bank  cards
In this case the cards sent to Mr J were the ones hed ticked  on the change of signatory form 
so I cant say Santander has made a mistake here. Im pleased  to see however that a new 
ATM card has now been issued which should have resolved this issue.
I can see how strongly Mr J feels about  whats happened but for the reasons given I cant 
agree Santander has made a mistake or acted unfairly. It follows from that I wont be asking 
it to do anything more  or to pay compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Ref: DRN32048703Cerys Jones  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3204870