K822xcomplaint
Miss D has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold to her when she applied  for a store card.  
FICL has taken responsibility for this sale so Ill refer to it throughout this decision.  
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 17 December 2018. Both parties  were  sent a 
copy of the provisional  decision and given  the opportunity to provide further information. 
Neither party had further information to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.   
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
Miss D took out the policy and the card in store in December 1999. Ive used my knowledge 
and experience of PPI sales  to help me assess whats most likely  to have happened. Ive 
also looked carefully at what  the parties have  said. 
FICL has been able to provide us with a copy of the credit agreement, which contained  a 
section about  the PPI asking the customer to sign if he or she wanted  to take out the policy.  
Miss D signed this section. She told us that she was unaware that shed signed  to take out 
the PPI. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI cover with the card so this means  it wasnt  required to make  
sure it was suitable for Miss D. But it was required to give her information that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  the decision for herself  about  whether or not to 
take out the policy.
Ive carefully considered  the terms and conditions  of this particular policy.  Work was 
defined as working in paid employment for at least 16 hours  or more  a week in the UK. In 
addition, in order to claim for unemployment  or disability, it was a requirement  that the 
policyholder had been working for 6 months  continuously  prior to the claim. 
However Miss D told us that at the time of the sale she was pregnant, was intending to go on 
maternity leave and that she gave birth in March 2000. So it appears  that given her particular 
circumstances, under the policy  terms and conditions  Miss D would have been restricted 
from claiming on the PPI until 6 months after the date of her return to work from 
maternity leave. 
I think that this information was significant.  FICL told us that sufficient information would 
have been provided to allow Miss D to make an informed decision about  whether  or not to 
add the PPI to her account at the point of sale. It told us that in addition, documentation 
confirming the sale of the policy would  have been sent to her address and this provided full 
details of the insurance, including  eligibility  exclusions and limitations, and levels  of cover.  
Ref: DRN36415252However, based on what FICL has been able to tell us, Im not persuaded that its likely the 
exclusions and restrictions affecting  Miss D would have been  set out to her in the store when 
she was getting  the card. And sending the policy documents  to her wasnt  a fair way of 
giving her the information.
Having considered all the available information, I think its most likely that the information  
would have influenced her decision whether or not to take the policy  and Ill explain the 
reasons for this. 
We know the cost of the policy  was likely  to have been no more than £1.00 per £100 of the 
outstanding monthly  balance  on Miss Ds card. This was more expensive  than some  other  
policies weve seen,  but it paid out a higher-than-average benefit of 15%.  So Ive considered 
whether Miss D would  have wanted to pay for this particular policy while  she was restricted 
from claiming under it. I think  if shed  known about  this its most likely it would have 
dissuaded her from taking out the policy. Overall Ive concluded  that its most likely  that if 
shed been given better information about  the restriction she would have decided against  
taking out the PPI. 
what the business should  do to put things right 
FICL should put Miss D in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken the PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Miss D would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss D owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss D made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Miss D would have 
owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when FICL works  out what Miss D would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss D paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interested on the extra she paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss D would  have owed something  on her store card. The interest rate should  
be 8% a year.
D.FICL  should tell Miss D what its done  to work out A, B, and C.
 HM Revenue and Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest.  FICL  must  give Miss D a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN36415253my final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Financial Insurance Company  Limited should pay Miss D 
fair compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudman
Ref: DRN3641525