K820x#14complaint
Mr C, represented by Mrs C, complains that the windows  he paid for through a fixed  sum 
loan agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) werent of satisfactory  quality. He says he spent  a lot of time dealing with the 
issues and should  be compensated for this.
background
Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in November 2014 to pay for the 
installation of six window  units. Mrs C says that after three  years, two windows were  still in 
the process of being replaced.  She says that windows had needed to be replaced more than 
once and that some of the windows werent  of the standard paid for. She says the supplier 
didnt use reasonable care when installing the windows.
Mrs C says that BPF made efforts to replace the window units and had offered 
compensation. But given all the issues and the time involved she didnt think the 
compensation was sufficient. She says compensation should  be paid for the following:
having to take 15 days off work  to allow access for the works to take place  (on four 
occasions people  didnt show up);
sending numerous  emails and making  numerous calls; 
the loss of heat due to inferior windows being  installed;
windows not being of the standard paid for;
replacement of three black out blinds which were damaged when remedial work was 
undertaken;
damage to decoration;  and 
the number  of people in their house.
BPF says that Mr C complained to it about the length of time it had taken  to complete the 
installation of their windows. It says he contacted it in September 2016  because there was 
outstanding remedial work  taking  place on the windows and the supplier had gone into 
administration. It says Mr C was told which company to contact to arrange  for the completion 
of the works. 
It says that in June  2017, Mr C contacted  it to say that two incorrect  windows had been 
installed and that the windows didnt  contain  the gas they were  supposed to. It was agreed  a 
third party would attend Mr Cs property. After issues  establishing contact an inspection took 
place on 31 August 2017. This confirmed that two windows needed to be replaced but said it 
wasnt possible to check if the windows contained the gas without drilling in and damaging 
the windows. There was then a complaint about mould on the windows but this was thought 
to be due to poor ventilation. 
BPF says that it was confirmed that the two windows were  replaced in November 2017 and 
the case was closed.
BPF says it has no evidence about any days  taken off work  and that the phone calls were 
mainly before it was involved. It looked  at the energy bills and found these showed an 
increase in costs  of less than £80 so it felt overall, the total compensation paid of £400  was 
sufficient. It noted the contract which set out the liability  regarding  any damage. 
Ref: DRN31195862Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that there were issues with the 
windows and the installation and so a breach of contract had occurred but that this had been 
rectified. She noted it had taken over three  years to resolve the issues but also that BPF had 
only been involved from September  2016  when Mr Cs complaint was raised.  She said that 
once contacted, BPF arranged for the organisation of the remedial work.
Our investigator thought a lot of the issues Mr C had experienced were due to the poor 
service provided by the supplier and said that BPF was only responsible  for losses  arising 
from the breach  of contract and any distress  and inconvenience it had caused. She noted 
that BPF had paid £400 compensation and thought this was reasonable based on the issues  
raised. 
Mrs C responded to our investigators view. She said that she had to take 15 days  of annual 
leave meaning  she then didnt have enough leave left for holidays or family events. She said 
the window installation was meant to take one day not 15 days. She said that proof  of the 
damage to the blinds had been  provided  and that she had removed the blinds before the 
initial installation but on subsequent visits the blinds were replaced  without  her knowledge 
and damage was caused. She said the blinds were expensive and the £100 paid towards 
this wasnt sufficient.
Mrs C accepted that a lot of the issues were  due to the service provided by the original 
supplier but said the BPF provided  the credit and should have carried out due diligence  on 
its suppliers. She also said that it took over a year and a half from when BPF became 
involved for the issues to be resolved. She noted  the £400 compensation paid but said this 
didnt cover the stress and inconvenience  caused  in the three  years  spent dealing with the 
issues. She also said that she still wasnt convinced the windows were installed correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF to pay for new window units. It has 
been explained by our investigator that under  the regulations, BPF can be held liable in 
certain circumstances  if there  has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the 
supplier. In this case, there  were a number of issues with the window units and the 
installation. This meant that the windows  had to be removed and re-installed more  than 
once. Given this I accept  that there was a breach of contract.
When a breach of contract occurs a reasonable remedy can be for repairs  or remedial work 
to take place. Mr and Mrs C spent time trying to resolve the issues  with the supplier and I 
can see that remedial  work had to take place  on a number  of occasions. However issues 
were still ongoing  when the supplier  went into administration.
In September  2016, Mr and Mrs C contacted  BPF about the issues. BPF advised on the next 
steps and further  remedial  work was undertaken. Following this further concerns were raised 
and the windows were inspected. It was agreed two units needed replacing.
Ref: DRN31195863While the issues with the windows have taken  a long time to resolve, a lot of this was due to 
the actions of the supplier. As the work  has now taken place to remedy  the issues  I find that 
this provides the main part of the resolution  to this complaint. I note Mrs Cs comments  about 
the windows possibly not being to the standard paid for and not installed properly. However,  
based on what I have  seen I do not find I have  enough evidence  to support this. I note the 
comments that have  been made about  the gas filling but I dont think  I have enough to say 
that the windows need to be drilled. On balance, I dont find I have enough evidence to say 
that the windows arent  to the standard expected.  
The outstanding issue is whether the compensation that Mr C has received is sufficient given 
the issues he has experienced  and the time taken to resolve these. I note that Mrs C is the 
representative on this complaint but any compensation has to be for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to the consumer, in this case Mr C. 
Mrs C has provided pictures of the areas  around the windows and said that blinds were 
damaged and redecoration  was needed.  I can see why this has caused upset. I note the 
terms and conditions of the contract set out the limitations in regard to the liability for any 
damage caused while installing the windows.  However I also note that there  has been a 
need to repeat the work on more than one occasion.  BPF has paid £100 towards the costs 
of redecoration  and while I understand that Mrs C says this isnt enough to cover the cost of 
the damaged  blinds and other work, based  on what I have seen I do not find I can require 
BPF to pay any more. I say this because I havent  seen any evidence to show further costs 
that were incurred and although I have seen pictures of the blinds I cannot say what  damage 
was caused when or the cost of this. Therefore, based on what  I have seen, I find that the 
£100 paid is reasonable.
Additional to the £100 for redecoration, BPF has paid Mr C a further £300. I have looked  
through the emails and can see that both Mr and Mrs C have, on occasions, had to be at 
home to allow  for the remedial work to take place. However I dont find that I have anything  
to say this has caused  a financial  loss. It has, of course been  inconvenient. Likewise the 
need to send emails  and contact different companies doesnt appear to have caused any 
financial loss but it needs to be taken  into account in regard to the inconvenience  caused as 
does the disruption  from having remedial work carried out on more than one occasion. 
While I understand that Mr C doesnt  think that the £300 is sufficient compensation for the 
issues I find that this is reasonable. I say this because a lot of the issues  occurred  before  
BPF was involved and were due to the service  provided by the supplier.  While BPF is 
responsible for certain issues I cannot  hold it responsible for the poor service  of the supplier. 
Since its involvement, BPF has tried to ensure the remedial action took place. This did take 
time but I do not find that BPF caused any unnecessary delays. 
Overall, based on the above, I think that the compensation BPF has paid is reasonable. 
Ref: DRN31195864my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3119586