K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) 
background
Mrs G took out PPI at some point between 1993  - when her credit card started  and 2000  
(the earliest available statement Lloyds  can provide.) Lloyds cant  say for certain how the 
sale came  about, but it has assumed it was done at the same time as Mrs G applied for the 
card during  a branch  meeting. Mrs G says things happened in a meeting. I will return  to this 
later on.
At the time of the sale Mrs G was employed and she said she was entitled to more  than six 
months but less than 12 months sick pay. She said she had savings of a few thousand pounds 
and was in good health at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment and death  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  up to 10% of Mrs Gs credit  card balance in 
the event of a successful  claim for accident  and sickness or unemployment. And it would do 
so for up to 12 months per claim. At the time, it cost between 59 pence  and 79 pence per 
£100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium  would  continue  to have to be paid 
during a successful  claim and it did attract  interest. 
Lloyds records show the credit card ended before  April 2008.
In summary  Mrs Gs representative raised  the following  complaint  points  on her behalf:
she was unaware  she had PPI
the policy terms and conditions werent  explained
she had significant  employment benefits including  a redundancy package
she had around  £3,000  in savings.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said that because 
things happened  many years ago, there  wasnt enough evidence to persuade  them that PPI 
wasnt presented as optional. And there  was nothing to suggest  PPI was unsuitable for Mrs 
G.
Mrs G, through her representative disagrees.  In addition to repeating  the points above, they 
say the adjudicator has made assumptions about  the start date and the sales  channel  isn't 
known.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website -  I dont intend to set this all out in this decision - and Ive 
taken into account  whats relevant here in deciding this complaint.
Ref: DRN33084392Having done so, and carefully considered the information provided by both parties to this 
dispute, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
when and how did Mrs G take out PPI?
As I referred  to above, Lloyds cant be specific when Mrs G took out PPI or how the sale 
came about.  I can see Mrs Gs representative has referred to this and made comment  about 
the assumptions made.
In some cases businesses arent  always able to provide some  or all of the documentation 
from the time of the sale. In this particular case, its not surprising to me that Lloyds has very 
little information  now available   not only did the sale happen quite some time ago but the 
account has been closed for many years. In cases like this where there are gaps in the 
evidence, I think its fair to make assumptions about  things - so long as those  assumptions  
are reasonable. 
In Mrs Gs case, I think its fair and reasonable to assume things happened  in-branch  not 
only does this reflect Mrs Gs recollection of events, but I think  its likely the most common  
sales channel around the time in question.
Lloyds hasnt been able to say for certain  when Mrs G took out PPI. But given Ive said I 
think things likely happened in branch,  I also think its more  likely than not that Mrs G  took 
out PPI at the same time as applying for the credit  card in 1993.  Ive not seen enough  to 
persuade me something different happened.
did Mrs G know she had a choice?
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mrs G that PPI was optional.
Lloyds hasnt got Mrs Gs credit card application  and as Ive already said theres limited 
evidence about  what happened.  But Lloyds  has provided an example  in-branch  application  it 
says was in use at the time of Mrs Gs sale. And this required  the applicant  to indicate 
whether they wanted PPI or not by ticking one of two boxes  Yes or No.
So taking everything into account and the limited evidence about something which happened 
many years ago, I think more likely than not Lloyds presented the policy to Mrs G as being  
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. But I can understand why Mrs 
G doesnt now remember this.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says because  it has assumed  things  happened in-branch,  this was an advised sale.  
And given  that Ive not seen anything  to dispute  this  it also doesnt disadvantage Mrs G in 
any way  Im happy to assume Lloyds provided  advice to Mrs G.
This means  Lloyds had to check if PPI was suitable  or right for Mrs G. And it had to give her 
enough clear and timely information about  the recommended policy so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether to accept the recommendation  or not.
the advice
Ref: DRN33084393Because I dont know what, if any steps were  taken to ensure PPI was suitable for Mrs G, I 
accept its possible Lloyds  didnt  do all that it should  fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs G PPI. But in light of Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, I think  PPI was ultimately 
suitable for her. So I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say this 
because:
Mrs G was eligible for the cover.
She was employed  and in good health at the time, so she wasnt affected by the key 
exclusions and limitations of cover  for example those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances.
Mrs G had sick pay and she said she had some  savings  at the time. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any employee  benefits and for longer if necessary  
up to 12 months per claim. This wouldve allowed Mrs G to use her existing provision  
to meet  other ongoing  or fixed expenditure. So I still think she had a need for cover  
and it wouldve been useful to her in protecting her card payments if any of the 
insured risks became a reality. Im also mindful  that with a monthly benefit of 10% of 
the outstanding card balance, the policy had the potential to clear  the balance  on the 
card in full.
the cost appears  to have been affordable.
So overall I think PPI was ultimately suitable  for Mrs G and so it wasnt  wrong for Lloyds to 
have recommended it to her.
the information  
I think its likely Mrs G was told something  about  the policy during the meeting - I dont  think 
she wouldve gone ahead without knowing something about  it. But I accept its possible 
Lloyds didnt provide Mrs G with all of the information she needed to make an informed 
decision about the recommended cover  including telling her that the premiums  would 
attract interest and that she wasnt covered for existing medical conditions.
But I dont think Mrs G wouldve likely  acted  differently and declined PPI had Lloyds done 
anything more. I say this because, as I indicated above, I think  Mrs G had some good  
reasons to take the policy out. The evidence about  her circumstances at the time of sale 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for her; she was eligible for its benefits; 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions could have proved useful to 
her should  the insured risks have become a reality. 
And it is in those circumstances that I consider it more likely than not that Mrs G would have 
taken out PPI in any event.
Ref: DRN33084394conclusion
In light of my findings above, it follows that I dont  think Mrs G has suffered loss as a result of 
taking out PPI, so Lloyds  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3308439