K822xcomplaint
C  a limited company   complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt
allowed access to account statements online,  after switching to another bank. Its also
unhappy with how long it took RBS to provide paper statements it had requested. C is
represented by its director,  Mr P.
background 
C had a business current account  with RBS. Following a commitment  by RBS to reduce their
business banking  market share,  C was one of the businesses  that agreed to switch its
account to another bank. The switch went ahead in March  2019.
Following that switch, Mr P attempted  to access online account statements for C in
May 2019, but was not able to. Mr P then requested  a paper copy of these statements, after
being told this was the only way he could access the information he needed.  After  he didnt
receive them and had to request them for a second time, they eventually arrived at the end
of June 2019.
Unhappy with this he complained to RBS, saying that he was told he would  still be able to
access Cs statements online, after switching bank.  He also complained about the amount of
time it took to receive his paper statements, and the impact this had on C. RBS said they
had acted fairly and in line with the conditions of the account and switch. They  said that they
hadnt guaranteed access  to statements online after the account with them was closed. They
also said that the paper statements were generated and sent within  a reasonable timeframe
and that they werent responsible if Mr P hadnt  received them.
RBS did subsequently acknowledge that the request for paper statements was not actioned 
quickly enough and made an offer of £50 for the inconvenience caused.  
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the offer made  by RBS was fair. The 
relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below. 
RBS wrote to C in April 2018 to let it know about  an incentivised switch  programme 
that was being offered. C then agreed  to switch its business account to another  bank.  
Mr P has provided us with documentation  from when  C first signed  up to online  
banking with RBS.  This does state that they will be able to view statements online for 
up to seven years.
However, after C had switched to another bank,  RBS wrote to Mr P to let him know 
that C can still request  a detailed  transaction history for up to five years  after closing 
the account. I find it reasonable that he was no longer able to view statements online 
with RBS, because  Cs accounts  were closed and therefore  no longer active.
Mr P did then request  a paper version  of his statements and I have looked at whether 
these were provided to him within a reasonable time. He says he requested them  in 
April 2019. I havent seen a record to show when  Mr P asked for them. However,  the 
statements were ordered by RBS for the dates  of 8 May 2017 to 3 May 2019.  So I 
Ref: DRN36332712think its most likely  that they were  ordered on 3 May 2019 as I dont  think  Mr P would 
have asked for statements up to and including  a future date.
According to RBSs internal process, historic  statements  which  are what  Mr P 
asked for  should be provided within 10 working days. According to RBSs records,  
Cs statements were dispatched on 17 May 2019   on the 10th working day after Mr P 
asked for them. Im satisfied they were sent, and sent in line with RBSs process. Mr 
P says he didnt receive them.  I dont think he would have said this if he had, so Im 
satisfied he didnt.  But I dont  think I can say this is because  of a mistake because, as 
Ive said, Im satisfied from the record Ive seen they were sent. I can also see the 
instruction included the correct address.
The statements were reordered on 29 May 2019. Mr P was told hed get them in 
three to five days  so by 5 June 2019,  if calculated using working days.  Mr P didnt 
get them until 24 June  2019.  I havent  been provided with anything to show  when 
they were sent. But given normal  postal  times,  I think its unlikely they were sent in a 
timely manner. So I think RBS caused an unnecessary delay in Mr P getting Cs 
statements.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for RBS to remove  Cs access to online  banking 
following account closure. So I dont think RBS is at fault for Mr P not having access 
to Cs account  statement  straight  way. I think when asked for, RBS sent the 
statements in line with its internal  timescales, so I dont  think  RBS is at fault for Mr P 
not getting the statements in May 2019.  I think  following the reorder on 29 May 
2019  Mr P should have received them on or around 5 June  2019.  He didnt get 
them until 24 June 2019. I think RBS is most  likely at fault for this delay   which  is 
around 20 days.
When bringing this complaint to our service  Mr P said the delay in receiving  the 
statements caused C increased staff and accountancy costs. When asked about  this 
Mr P didnt  provide  any invoices (or other  evidence) to demonstrate this. Instead,  Mr 
P said hed spent 30 hours of his time on this complaint, and hed like RBS to 
reimburse C for his time at £90 per hour. I dont think this is reasonable.
I should explain that C is the eligible complainant in this case, not Mr P. So I can only 
ask RBS to pay for financial loss and inconvenience  caused  to C. I havent seen 
anything to show C incurred a loss as a result of receiving its statements later than it 
should have. I acknowledge Mr P  the director of C  has spent some time asking 
for statements  on Cs behalf. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think I can 
fairly say RBS is at fault for the majority of the delay in Mr P receiving Cs 
statements.
RBS has offered C £50 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. In 
the absence of anything further  to show a loss or inconvenience to C as a result of 
the around 20 day delay, I consider this to be an appropriate amount.  
responses to my provisional  decision
RBS confirmed that it had nothing further to add. 
Mr P didnt respond to my findings  or provide anything further for consideration. 
Ref: DRN36332713my findings
As there is nothing further for me to consider,  my decision remains as outlined in my
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that I ask The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay C £50 compensation  
as it has offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3633271