K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  that a new car she got with a hire purchase agreement  from Black Horse 
Limited (trading as Land Rover Financial Services) (LRFS) is of unsatisfactory quality.  
background 
Miss K got this car in March 2017.  In August that year she found  the media unit wasnt  
working properly  and took the car back to the dealer. The dealer  carried out some repairs  
but Miss K continued to have  problems  - she had issues with the gearbox,  the car wouldnt 
start at times and warning lights illuminated intermittently. 
Miss K contacted LRFS in October 2018  to say the car was of unsatisfactory quality. She 
says the supplying dealer offered to replace the car but LRFS wouldnt agree. She wants  to 
reject the car for a replacement or refund. 
LRFS accepts Miss K had problems with the car not long after supply.  But it thinks these 
were resolved at no cost to her (when software was updated and a component was 
replaced) by the dealership. LRFS  offered to pay Miss K £250 compensation for any related 
distress and inconvenience. 
LRFS acknowledges  the car failed to start at times and Miss K reported having  trouble with 
the gearbox after that. But it thinks this was due to a battery  issue  and says theres no 
evidence of a gearbox or other  inherent  fault. LRFS doesnt think Miss K would have been 
able to drive the car as far as she did if it was of unsatisfactory  quality at the outset.  LRFS  
says its for Miss K to show that any faults  present now were there when she got the car and 
it should have  to do anything further. 
Our adjudicator doesnt think theres  enough evidence to say that Miss K should be allowed 
to reject this car. Hes satisfied that problems which arose early on were fixed at no cost to 
her. And he thinks the offer to pay £250  compensation  for related distress and 
inconvenience sounds fair. Hes not persuaded that more recent  issues mean the car was 
faulty when it was supplied - given the distance Miss Ks been able to drive since. And he 
doesnt recommend  LRFS  should have to do anything else. 
Miss K feels this is unfair. She says the car has been in and out of the dealership since she 
got it - and the same warning light has illuminated  off and on throughout. She thinks the car 
has a software defect thats caused  numerous  problems  - and the dealer hasnt been able to 
fix this despite  having  plenty of opportunities to do so. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   I am sorry to disappoint Miss K but I have 
reached substantially  the same  conclusions as our adjudicator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN30022022LRFS was obliged  (under legislation in place when  Miss K got this car) to ensure that the car 
was of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory quality 
varies according to individual circumstances. But, its generally considered reasonable to 
take the age, cost and mileage of a car (at the point  of supply)  into account. 
This car was about new and cost over £76,000. As such, I think  Miss K had a reasonable 
expectation that it would be fault free when she got it. I can see that Miss K experienced 
several issues with the car over the first year or so. I have no doubt that must have been 
disappointing and inconvenient. 
Ive seen evidence  to show that the dealer investigated and carried  out several repairs 
during this time. It seems to have  done  so with Miss Ks agreement. And it looks  as if those 
repairs sorted things out to her satisfaction at the time. Like our adjudicator, I consider  
LRFSs offer to pay compensation for associated distress and inconvenience seems fair - so 
its up to Miss K to decide if she wants to accept that. 
I have somewhat limited  information about what went wrong with the car subsequently. I can 
see that Miss K contacted  LRFS  in October  2018  because shed had more trouble with the 
car. It looks as if shed been able to travel about 27,000 miles at this stage. LRFS  told Miss 
K it would need  more  information about the issues she was having  - given the time that had 
passed since the car was supplied. I dont think that sounds unreasonable,  in this situation. 
I can see that the car was checked  by a different dealer (not the one that supplied  the car) in 
April 2019. The related paperwork says the only faults found  at this stage seem  to be wear 
and tear related and the dealer  found  no evidence that the car had a recurring software (or 
other inherent) issue. To uphold this complaint Id have to be satisfied that this car currently 
has faults that are likely to have  been there when Miss K got it. I cant  fairly hold LRFS 
responsible for issues that are wear  and tear related. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I am 
not persuaded that I can fairly find the car is of unsatisfactory quality. 
I understand however that Miss K feels strongly that the car hasnt been right since she got it 
and I have some sympathy for the situation she finds herself in. I spoke to Miss K to see if 
she has any additional evidence  or relevant information. Miss K confirmed that the problems 
she reported with the media  unit early on were fixed. And she told me the car currently has 
noisy brakes and a warning light which comes  on intermittently - and has done  so since  she 
got the car.
I understand its worrying when a warning  light comes on in any car. But I cant  safely say 
that the presence of a warning light alone must  mean this car has an inherent fault.  The light 
Miss K refers  to seems to relate to a driver aid intended to assist  with emergency braking - 
which can be affected by dirt (or some  other  obstruction such as stickers) on the windscreen. 
I discussed this with Miss K and she agreed  it would probably be useful to check  if the light 
might be caused by something  thats  relatively easy to sort out. Miss K also said she was 
going to think  about having  the car checked by a third party,  such as an independent expert.  
I gave Miss K some  additional time to do that and provide additional evidence if she wanted  
to. The time limit I set for any further  submissions has now passed and Miss K hasnt sent us 
anything else - or indicated that she needs more  time to do so. 
Theres no dispute that there were some issues with this car early on. But, Im satisfied that 
Miss K gave the dealer  the chance  to fix things - which  was reasonable - and the faults she 
reported seem to have  been resolved to her satisfaction. Given the time thats  passed  since, 
Ref: DRN30022023the distance Miss K was able to travel in the car and the outcome of the dealers checks  in 
April 2019, Im not persuaded its likely that this car still has faults which  were present  at the 
point of supply.  
On balance overall, I am not satisfied that theres  enough  evidence  here to reasonably 
conclude that this car is of unsatisfactory quality. This means  I cant fairly require LRFS to 
take the car back  for a refund or do anything further.  I realise  this isnt the outcome Miss K 
wanted and I understand  my decision is likely to come as a disappointment. Miss K isnt 
obliged to accept  what Ive said - in which  case,  it remains open to her to pursue this matter 
by other  means,  should she wish to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3002202