K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain  that Legal & General Insurance Limiteds contractors  failed to carry 
out repairs effectively  after storm damage to their home. They say this led to on-going 
dampness and eventually to an outbreak of dry rot. 
background
Mrs and Mr A had a buildings and contents insurance policy with Legal  and General.  They  
made a claim in early  2012 after their roof was damaged  in a storm.
Legal & General accepted  the claim, but thought the quote for repairs  provided by 
Mrs and Mr As builder  was excessive. After several  weeks discussion about this, 
Mrs and Mr A agreed that Legal & Generals  contractor should carry out the repairs.
In 2018, Mrs and Mr A found out they had an outbreak  of dry rot affecting their house. They 
believe this is the result of the repairs in 2012 not being carried out effectively and/or quickly 
enough. 
They say parts of their home were  left exposed to the elements for around  six weeks  in 
2012, before  the repairs were carried out. And they say the contractors didnt carry  out any 
work to dry out the property before repairing the roof. Theyve  asked Legal & General to pay 
for the work  to eradicate the dry rot and repair their home.
Legal & General said they wouldnt pay for the necessary  works  because its not clear that 
the dry rot was caused by any issues with the repair  work carried out in 2012.
Mrs and Mr A complained to Legal  & General,  but they didnt change  their view. So 
Mrs and Mr A complained to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Legal & General had done anything  wrong.  
Mrs and Mr A disagreed and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer makes an insurance claim, its for them to show  on the balance of 
probabilities that an insured event caused the damage (its not for the insurer  to show that it 
didnt). When an insurer wants to apply an exclusion and so decline a claim, its for them  to 
show on the balance  of probabilities that the exclusion  applies.
This is not a typical insurance claim case, because Mrs and Mr A are saying the repairs  
carried out by Legal & Generals contractors after they made their original claim in 2012 
werent effective  and have led to significant problems.
Clearly, if the original repairs have in fact led to the dry rot outbreak,  Legal & General should 
put things right and pay for the work thats now needed. 
Ref: DRN38991142However, wed expect  the same  principles to apply in terms of demonstrating that the event 
caused the damage. In other words, its for Mrs and Mr A to show that on the balance  of 
probabilities the work carried out in 2012  led to the dry rot outbreak.
Mrs and Mr A have  provided five reports which they say support their claim that the dry rot is 
the result  of defective  repair  work  carried out in 2012.
The first is from a builder (Ill call them company A) who was fitting a new bathroom in the 
property and was asked to look at the affected  area of the house. 
Their report identifies  the problem as dry rot. It also says company A were told (by 
Mrs and Mr A, I assume) that the affected  area was exposed to the weather for six weeks. 
And it says that shouldnt  have happened. And that the original repairs  shouldnt  have  been  
carried out without  an inspection to show whether there was any remaining dampness.
The second  and third reports are from another building company (Ill call them  company B), 
who appear to have been asked to provide a quote for eradication and repair  works.  
The second  report  appears to simply be an estimate   based on company Bs assessment of 
the extent of the dry rot outbreak. This report says all roof coverings, guttering,  down pipes 
etc. should be checked, repaired if necessary and then monitored  to ensure theres no on-
going water  ingress.  
The third report  provided three months  later - is a repeat of the second, but with an added 
paragraph to say that the cause of the outbreak would appear to be defective roof 
coverings due to a previous storm.
The fourth report, from another building company (Ill call them  company  C) is another quote 
for recommended treatment and repair work.  It sets out in detail the extent of the outbreak 
and specifies recommended  treatment and works.  And it says the cause of the outbreak is 
rainwater ingress following storm damage . 
The fifth report is from a surveyor  (Ill call them company D) Mrs and Mr A asked to inspect 
their property. Again, the report describes the extent  of the dry rot outbreak  and makes 
extensive recommendations  about  what needs  to be done now. 
In its summary, the report says:
I have no hesitation in stating that the outbreakhas occurreddue to external  roof 
defects (missing tiles) and considering the time lapse  until the property was made 
watertight.
Legal & General also commissioned an expert  surveyors report  (Ill refer to the surveyor  as 
company E). This concluded that the cause of the dry rot outbreak cant  now be established.
Company E say the repairs were  carried  out five years previously  which in itself makes it 
difficult to definitively identify the cause of the damage. 
They also say there are other possible causes of water ingress at the property,  which may 
have led to  or contributed to  on-going  dampness  and the dry rot outbreak. 
Ref: DRN38991143In particular, they provide photographic evidence to show cracking in the render of the 
house. These cracks travel from around  the area of the roof repaired in 2012 to two windows 
 one on the upper floor and one on the lower.
They also identified deterioration  in the mastic around the roof flashings, which they say may 
have led to water ingress and dampness.
Ill consider each of these  reports  in turn.
Company As report seems to me to add very little in terms of identifying  the cause of the dry 
rot outbreak.  It simply says there is an outbreak and goes on to say the roof shouldnt have 
been left unrepaired for as long as Mrs and Mr A say it was and drying out should have been 
considered before the repairs were carried out. 
It doesnt attempt  to establish any causal  link between the repairs  and the outbreak.  And it 
doesnt consider  other possible causes of dampness  in the house.
Company Bs first report says nothing about  the cause of the outbreak.  In fact, in suggesting 
checks  and repairs if necessary - to all roof coverings, gutterings,  down pipes etc., its very 
clearly not identifying a specific  cause of the outbreak. 
Their second report simply adds on a paragraph  about the cause  presumably after 
discussion with Mrs and Mr A  which says the cause  appears  to be the delayed  repairs  in 
2012.
Company Cs report is again primarily about the required repairs. It says the cause  of the 
outbreak is rainwater  ingress following storm damage, but doesnt  justify or explain that view 
in any meaningful way. Nor does it look at other potential causes of dampness in the 
property.
Company Ds report is unequivocal in stating that the damage  was caused by the roof 
remaining unrepaired for a period of time in 2012.  However, again  theres  no real 
explanation of why company D have come  to that conclusion so definitively. And again 
theres no consideration or discussion of the other possible causes of water ingress.
I can conclude, from company Ds report at least,  that if the roof were left unrepaired for a 
significant amount  of time in 2012  that is a potential cause of dampness   and eventually the 
dry rot.
Company Es report, commissioned by Legal  & General, has identified   and evidenced  
two other  potential causes  of water ingress to the property which  may have led to on-going 
dampness and eventually to the dry rot outbreak.
I dont think Mrs and Mr A could dispute that there  are cracks in the render of their house   
in the area affected by the outbreak. And none  of the reports theyve provided have 
addressed that  or the deteriorating  mastic that company  E identified in those same  areas.
Bearing in mind that its for Mrs and Mr A to demonstrate that the outbreak was caused  by 
the delays to repairs in 2012, Im satisfied that Legal & General havent acted unreasonably 
or unfairly  at present  in refusing to take responsibility for the repairs  that are now needed to 
Mrs and Mr As home.
Ref: DRN38991144Currently, there is no expert view or report which considers the different potential causes of 
dampness in the home  the delayed repairs, the cracking in the render and the deteriorating 
mastic  and makes  a clear and reasoned argument that one is more likely than the others 
to be the sole or main  cause of the outbreak.
If Mrs and Mr A provide more evidence  in future, Id expect Legal & General to consider it in 
line with their usual  processes  and procedures.
I know Mrs and Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. And Im very well aware that the 
consequences for them are very significant. Im really sorry that Mrs and Mr A have had this 
outbreak of dry rot in their home, but I cant say Legal & General have acted  unreasonably  or 
unfairly in the way theyve handled this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 September 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899114