K822xComplaint
Mr N complains that SureStone Insurance dac unfairly  declined  a claim he made  on his
income protection policy.
Background 
Mr N held an income protection policy with SureStone. After becoming unemployed he made 
a claim.
SureStone declined his claim. It said he wasnt covered if the reason he became 
unemployed was due to him not meeting his employers expectations.
Unhappy, Mr N complained, he thought  he should  be covered and that the terms of the
policy were unfair. He said he was also in dispute  with his previous employer over the
reason for his dismissal. 
SureStone looked  into Mr Ns complaint but didnt  change its decision. So Mr N brought  his
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld.  He thought
SureStone had acted  fairly and in line with Mr Ns policy when deciding not to pay his claim.
He asked SureStone  if it would consider  refunding Mr N some of the premium  hed paid it,
but SureStone  said it wouldnt do this as Mr N could  still have had use of the policy had he
become employed  at a later date.  Ultimately our investigator thought that was fair too.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the case has come to me.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so. Im thinking of partially
upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain my reasons below.
Mr Ns policy  covers him if he becomes  unemployed.  And hes also eligible for a waiver of
his premium if he becomes unemployed too. But his policy  doesnt  cover him for either of
these if he becomes unemployed for every possible reason. It covers him if he becomes
unemployed through no fault of his own.
Mr Ns policy  says hes not covered if the reason he becomes unemployed is due to
misconduct... including not meeting his employers standards. Having looked at the reason
for Mr Ns unemployment, this is noted as performance by his employer. I think  its clear
that performance indicates his employer felt he wasnt meeting its standards. So, on this
basis Im satisfied its reasonable SureStone  dont  pay his claim for unemployment or waiver
of premium.
I understand Mr N disagrees with his employer and is in dispute with it about  his dismissal.
But Im satisfied SureStone can rely on the information it received from Mr Ns employer
when deciding whether to pay his claim or not.
After making the claim Mr N continued to pay for his policy. He did so up until our
investigator told him his opinion. Surestone  initially said it wouldnt return  any premium  Mr N
Ref: DRN30029222had paid. However, it has now agreed  to change its stance.
The policy covers Mr N if he becomes unemployed, and it isnt linked to any employer. So
had Mr N got another job, hed have possibly been able to claim from it if needed going
forward. And the policy is also part of a plan,  meaning there are other benefits to the policy
too. So I can understand why SureStone initially  didnt feel any refund was due.
But looking  at everything on the case. Im satisfied theres a point on 17 July 2018 which it
becomes clear Mr N is only continuing  to pay for the policy on the mistaken belief that he
thinks he needs to in order to get this claim (the one hes complaining about) paid. This is
further evidenced by Mr N cancelling the policy shortly  after receiving our investigators
opinion.
I think had he been told clearly, earlier in the process that he didnt need  to keep the policy
running, I find it likely hed have  cancelled the policy much earlier  than he did. And so I think
its fair that SureStone backdate the cancellation  of Mr Ns policy  and return  the premium  
Mr N paid from the date it becomes clear he is only keeping the policy  active  to see if his 
claim
will be paid,  to the point  he does actually cancel the policy. And SureStone have agreed to
this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above. Im thinking of partially upholding Mr Ns complaint. To put
things right Id require SureStone Insurance dac to:
Refund Mr N the premiums hed paid it for this policy between 17 July 2018 and
when he did cancel the policy.
SureStone made no further comment in response  to my provisional decision.
Mr N provided  further evidence that showed hed remained unemployed between making 
this claim and cancelling the policy, and he said he asked SureStone in May 2018  to stop 
charging the premiums.  He thinks this should be the date hes refunded back  to.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not departing  from 
my provisional decision.
Ive considered Mr Ns further  evidence, but I dont think the claim he made in May 2018  
made it clear  he didnt want the policy anymore, I think  at this point he was making it clear he 
wanted to claim under  the waiver of premium benefit. And as covered in the provisional 
decision, this wasnt something he was eligible for after making this claim.
As covered in my provisional  decision, in July 2018 it become clear Mr N was only keeping 
the policy active because  he thought  he needed  to to get his claim paid while he was 
disputing SureStones decision to decline it.
Ref: DRN30029223My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Ns complaint. To put 
things right I require SureStone Insurance dac to:
Refund Mr N the premiums he paid for this policy  between  17 July 2018 and when he 
cancelled the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3002922