K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that TSB Bank  plc stopped  applying interest to their account.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 11 June 2019,  a copy of which  is attached as it forms part 
of this final decision. TSB didnt have any further  comments. But Mrs P has responded to the 
provisional decision and raised some  further points for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P says that she logged in at least once a month to check the balance on the account.  
She says she didnt notice  that interest hadnt been  paid, particularly as the amount of 
interest each month was only ever minimal. She has also explained the personal 
circumstances which made that particular period of time very stressful  for her and her 
husband. 
Im grateful  to Mrs P for telling me about  this and I appreciate  that checking for interest  
payments on the account would have been  the last thing  on her mind  in the circumstances. 
But I have to consider  complaints impartially. So I have to balance  Mr and Mrs Ps situation 
against the fact that TSB dont have to pay interest  unless certain conditions  are met. And 
Im mindful of the fact that it was more than two years before Mr and Mrs P came  to realise 
that interest  wasnt being paid. So, whilst  its understandable here that they didnt notice 
straight away, that doesnt automatically  mean that TSB should pay the interest.
Mrs P says that they havent received any paper correspondence from TSB since  opening  
the account. In particular,  she refers  to the reminder letters  sent at the six, nine and twelve  
month stages. I referred to these in my provisional decision and explained that TSB didnt  
have to send these by post but could also use email.  When  I made  my provisional decision,  I 
was satisfied that TSB had sent the reminders. I havent seen any new information  which  
shows they werent sent, so I havent  changed my mind on this point.
Mrs P says that it wasnt made clear to her or her husband verbally that they both had to log 
in to Internet  Banking. I have no reason to doubt  that as I havent  seen anything to suggest  
they were told verbally. But I think it was clear from the documents,  as I explained  in my 
provisional decision.
I realise my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs P and I can assure them that Ive 
taken all Mrs Ps comments  into account. But I havent seen any new information which 
makes me think TSB have acted unfairly  here.  So I havent changed my mind about the 
appropriate outcome  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37617492my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019. 
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37617493copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that TSB Bank plc stopped applying interest to their account.
background
Mr and Mrs P have a joint account with TSB which was opened in 2015. In September  2018,  they 
noticed that no credit interest had been applied to the account since July 2016.
They complained to TSB,  who issued their Final Response Letter in December  2018.  TSB didnt 
uphold the complaint because they said that Mr and Mrs P hadnt been eligible to receive interest in 
the period from August 2016 to October 2018.
They explained that, under  the terms and conditions of the account,  Mr and Mrs P need to do the 
following in order for interest to be applied:
pay in £500 a month,
register and use Internet  Banking, and
register for and maintain paperless statements  and paperless correspondence.
They said that, when  all these criteria  are being met, monthly interest is applied to the account.  If any 
of the requirements  arent met, interest stops being paid until such time as all the criteria are being 
met again.
TSB say that, by July 2016,  Mr and Mrs P hadnt  logged in and read their correspondence  for 12 
months. So they were  de-registered for paperless correspondence and TSB stopped paying interest 
at that point. TSB say that they contacted Mr and Mrs P at regular  intervals  in the 12 months before to 
remind them  to log in.
Our adjudicator agreed that Mr and Mrs P hadnt logged in to their online account. But he thought  that 
the messages sent by TSB werent clear  about the consequences of no longer  receiving paperless  
correspondence. He also thought it hadnt been made clear  to Mr and Mrs P that they both needed  to 
log in at least  once every 12 months.  He recommended that TSB pay the interest that Mr and Mrs P 
could have earned on their account in the period between August  2016 and September 2018,  plus 
interest on that.
Mr and Mrs P accepted our adjudicators  findings. But TSB didnt, so the case  has been referred to an 
ombudsman to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which apply to Mr and Mrs Ps account and Internet  Banking 
facility. By opening the account and registering for Internet Banking,  they agreed to be bound by 
these. Ive summarised below the sections  of the terms and conditions which  are relevant  here.
The conditions of the account say that, in order to earn credit interest, Mr and Mrs P must  pay at least 
£500 into the account each  month and be registered for Internet Banking,  paperless  statements  and 
paperless correspondence. They say If you dont do this each month, we wont pay you credit 
interest for that month. So I find that what TSB have said about the workings of the account is 
correct.
Ref: DRN37617494The Personal  Banking  terms and conditions  which  apply  to the account say that TSB can contact Mr 
and Mrs P by post, phone, email, text message or by messages on their Internet Banking. The terms 
say that, by giving TSB their email address, Mr and Mrs P agree that TSB can use that to get in touch  
so that they can service  the account. So TSB were allowed to send emails or use Internet  Banking 
messages (as well as post)  to contact Mr and Mrs P about their account. TSB say they did this and, 
based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied thats the case.
Mrs P has said that TSB didnt have Mr Ps email address until recently, so they couldnt  have sent 
him any reminder messages. But TSB say they held the same email  address for both Mr and Mrs P 
from the time the account was opened.  They say thats the email address which  Mr and Mrs P 
provided when they registered for paperless  documents. They say its not unusual for couples to give 
the same email address and that its reasonable  to expect the person who reads the email  to tell the 
other person of any action they need to take.  I think thats a reasonable  approach.
The Personal  Banking  terms also say that each person named on the account has to follow the terms 
and conditions.  As Mr and Mrs Ps account is a joint one, that means they both have to do whats 
required under the terms and conditions. That means they both had to be registered  for Internet 
Banking and paperless  statements and correspondence.
The Internet Banking terms and conditions say that, if Mr and Mrs P dont log in to Internet Banking 
for three  consecutive  months, TSB will send them a letter or email asking  them to look at their 
statement or correspondence online. And that TSB will send additional  reminders by letter  or email 
after six months  and then again at nine months.  Based  on the information  Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
TSB sent these reminders  to Mr and Mrs P.
The Internet Banking terms go on to say that, if Mr and Mrs P dont log in for 12 consecutive  months,  
TSB will start sending  paper statements and correspondence  again.
I think  its clear from all of this that Mr and Mrs P both needed to be registered  for Internet Banking 
and paperless statements and correspondence in order to receive  credit interest. I think its also clear 
that there was an obligation  on them to log in to Internet  Banking regularly and view their documents if 
they wanted to remain paperless.
But I dont think its made expressly clear that the consequence of TSB re-starting paper  
correspondence and statements is that Mr and Mrs P would actually  be de-registered from paperless 
documents (and so become ineligible to receive credit interest). Whilst  I can see thats one of the 
implications, I dont think its spelled out in the terms and conditions.
However, I think this is made clear in the reminders which TSB sent to Mr and Mrs P after three,  six 
and nine months. Interest was still being  paid while the reminders were  sent.  It only stopped being  
paid in July 2016, which TSB say was after 12 months without  Mr and Mrs P logging in to Internet 
Banking. So Im satisfied that, even  if they hadnt been aware initially of the consequences of not 
logging in regularly, they ought reasonably  to have been aware before  the 12 months elapsed and the 
interest stopped.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt realise that they both had to log in and that its mainly Mrs P who 
manages the account. TSB have provided a letter which  they say was sent to Mr and Mrs P (as well 
as all other customers with the same  type of account)  in October 2016. This says: The way you earn 
interest on your account  stays the same. You still need to pay in a minimum of £500 a month and be 
registered for Internet  Banking,  paperless statements and paperless correspondence. You also need 
to make sure you log into your Internet  Banking at least once every 12 months. And if you have  a joint 
account, both of you must log in.
So Im satisfied that, even if Mr and Mrs P hadnt realised before this that they both had to log in at 
least once a year, they should have known it from October 2016. But it wasnt until September  2018 
that they brought this complaint to TSB.  By that time, no interest had been paid for more than two 
years. I think  this suggests that neither Mr nor Mrs P had logged in to Internet  Banking during this 
Ref: DRN37617495time to monitor  their account. If they had, I think they would have noticed that interest wasnt being  
paid and queried it much earlier. Im not aware of any special circumstances which meant Mr and Mrs 
P couldnt log in during  that period. So I dont  think TSB need to make an exception to their usual 
process here.
So in conclusion, I think that it was made clear to Mr and Mrs P before  TSB stopped paying interest 
that they needed to log in to Internet Banking and maintain a paperless profile in order to keep 
receiving interest. And if they didnt  realise  they both had to do that, I think its reasonable to say that 
they should  have realised  from October 2016. If Mr and Mrs P had taken  action then, the interest 
payments could have re-started. But I dont think it was TSBs fault that nothing happened for nearly 
two more years. So I dont  think they have acted unfairly  here and I dont think  they need to do 
anything.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, I dont intend 
to uphold this complaint.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761749