K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 on a 
credit card. Mr T says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered what Mr T and his representatives have said, but Ive decided  the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
Lloyds shouldve made Mr T aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. The copy of 
application form I have  isnt very easy to read  though it looks as though  the form is asking 
whether the customer  wanted PPI, and on Mr Bs form there is a tick against it. Also, from 
what we know from all the cases weve dealt  with, its likely Lloyds did offer the PPI as a 
choice at this time, and Mr T would have had to tick to say he wanted  it, before it was added 
to his account. So I think Lloyds made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it. But I can understand why he might  not recall this now, as the sale took 
place many years ago.
Lloyds says it advised Mr T to take out the policy. So it shouldve made sure the policy  was 
right for him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time the PPI was sold,  
I think it was. I say this because:
Mr T appears  to have been eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Ts told us about  his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health 
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr Ts told us he wouldve received sick pay from his employer. The PPI couldve 
been of use to Mr T as it wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on the card 
for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to illness or if he was made redundant. 
This wouldve  been on top of any sick pay he wouldve got, meaning  he wouldve 
been able to use this for other  everyday living expenses.
Lloyds has told us the PPI wouldve cost Mr T between  59p-79p  per £100 of his 
outstanding monthly balance.  Even at the higher end of this range, I havent seen 
anything to suggest this wasnt affordable to Mr T.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr T, Lloyds also shouldve given him clear  
information about the policy so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not to 
take it out. I dont  know what  steps Lloyds took to do this and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly  as they shouldve been. But I dont  think  clearer  information  
Ref: DRN36835622wouldve changed Mr Ts decision. I think hed still have bought  it. I say this for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3683562