K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Mr H. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. Mr H 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account  in the shop. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mr H filled in and signed, does  set out the PPI as a choice,  which you 
make by ticking and signing in the PPI box. So I think  Mr H was given a choice even  if 
he doesnt remember now,  over 20 years later. 
 It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mr Hs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr H to decide whether it was suitable.
 However AXA did need to give Mr H clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mr H. So Ive thought about  whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mr Hs circumstances  at the time,  even if hed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to his decision. (This is assuming he was given a choice  which  I accept he 
says he isnt sure happened.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have 
paid out for longer than his likely  employer  sick pay lasted. And it would have been in 
addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. It would  mean he could have  
kept any savings  in reserve for longer.  Also it doesnt look like hed have been  affected 
by any of the significant exclusions  in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN37488622Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3748862