K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy sold in 2002. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this 
sale. So to keep things  simple in my decision  Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the PPI seller 
or to FICL. Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mrs S disagreed with these findings, so this case has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I think its likely FICL  made it clear Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mrs S completed at the time. I 
can see that PPI was selected.  Had Mrs S not wanted the cover she could have  left this section 
blank. Ive noted that theres no language on the form that suggests the credit is dependent on 
taking out this cover.
Mrs S says that she was told where to sign to get the card and the PPI wasnt discussed. FICL 
thinks Mrs S signed the form agreeing to the cover. Its not straightforward  to decide a case when 
there isnt much evidence  for me to consider. So I need to make my decision based on a balance  
of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what  both sides have  said, and 
make a decision based on what I think most likely  happened. 
As the sale took place in a store, its possible that the application form was completed by the 
salesperson. However the form includes the sort of personal information about Mrs S that it seems 
more likely came from her. I say that because the form records  Mrs Ss full name, including middle 
name, date of birth, address and telephone numbers.  And it records  the word  that Mrs S intended 
to use as her password.  So as Mrs Ss details are on the form, its most likely it was completed 
during a conversation between Mrs S and the salesperson when Mrs S applied  for the store  card. 
So I think it most likely that Mrs S signed for the PPI on the same card that she signed for the store  
card as a result of a discussion around  the PPI when the form was completed. And by signing the 
form with the PPI option selected Mrs S agreed to take the policy.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide  if it was right for her. 
The information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have been, 
the information about the cost of the policy for instance. But I think its likely  Mrs S would have had 
some understanding that it would pay a benefit  if she wasnt able to work because she was sick or 
became unemployed. And as I think Mrs S chose to take out the PPI, it seems  like she was 
interested in this type of cover.
Ref: DRN33676292Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it seems that she was eligible for the 
policy and doesnt  appear to have  been  affected  by any of the main exclusions of the policy terms 
and conditions which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim  such as a pre-existing 
medical condition.  So it wouldve  been useful for her if something  went  wrong.
Mrs S also seemed to have had a need for the cover. Mrs S has said that she had good sick pay 
from her employers initially but that would have dropped significantly after six months. After that 
Mrs S told us she would  have had to rely on her savings and her husband for support. Mrs S 
wasnt able to provide  details  about the savings.  However, as the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
any sick pay she was entitled to, and in this case for longer, and as this would  have reduced  her 
reliance on her savings or on any help her husband may have been able to provide, I think  this 
policy could have been useful for Mrs S. 
So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think better  information wouldve stopped Mrs S buying the 
PPI. And I dont think Mrs S has lost out due to anything  that FICL mightve done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set above, I dont uphold  Mr Ss complaint. And make  no award against Financial 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3367629