K821x#15complaint
Miss S makes  a number of complaints about  how TSB Bank plc has handled  her account.
background
Miss S says she has tried to close her account and pay off her overdraft but every time she 
has made a payment, further charges are made by TSB. She says she asked  her mother to 
close her account as she lives in New Zealand but TSB refused to accept a signed  letter  of 
authority. Miss S says shes tried to make contact with TSB from abroad  but TSB hasnt 
helped her sort matters  out. She would like TSB to close the account and refund the charges  
and also pay her compensation for whats happened.
TSB says it has applied the charges  in line with the account terms and conditions  and hasnt 
made a mistake by applying them. It says it is up to Miss S to monitor her account and be 
aware of pending  charges which are shown  online  and on her account  statements. TSB says 
the signature on the letter of authority didnt match the signature  on its records.  But it has 
arranged to close the account.
Miss S had brought  her complaint to us and says TSB ignored her request  for financial 
support. She says shes been caused stress  by whats taken place and that TSB ignored her 
attempts to get in touch  with it.
The investigator looked at TSBs records and thought it had spoken  to Miss S in December 
2017 and carried  out an income  and expenditure assessment and concluded Miss S had 
about £812 a month  to spend. The investigator thought Miss S had used her overdraft facility 
whilst abroad and that the charges  were  applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. The investigator thought  Miss S had access to online banking and ought to have  
been able to see the charges on her statement  and details  of pending charges.
The investigator didnt  think TSB had acted unfairly by rejecting the letter of authority, if it 
had concerns about the signature. And questioned  if the account could have been closed 
when Miss Ss mother attended a branch as there was still an overdraft  balance  on the 
account.
The investigator thought TSB could have dealt  with Miss Ss complaint more appropriately 
and done more to contact  her when she contacted it via social media. The investigator  
recommended TSB pay compensation  of £150 for that which  its agreed  to do.
Miss S doesnt accept  that view and disputes an assessment ever took place in December 
2017. She says she had no income at the time and her statements  prove that. Miss S says 
she told TSB she had no employment  and was travelling  and that the compensation isnt 
enough. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Miss S will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ref: DRN34608472Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Miss S would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Having done so Im satisfied that TSB was entitled to make  
overdraft charges in these  circumstances as there is no dispute Miss S used her overdraft 
facility. I appreciate that in 2018  Miss S made a payment  to clear the overdraft but further  
charges were then made. Im satisfied  that was due to pending charges which  I think  Miss S 
ought to have been aware of as I think TSB told Miss S about  them  in the account  
statements. So I dont think TSB has made  a mistake or acted unfairly in making those 
charges here.
Im also satisfied that having looked  at Miss Ss account statements, she was regularly using 
her account  whilst abroad which also resulted in foreign transaction fees.
I dont think TSB made a mistake by not accepted the letter of authority where it had 
concerns about  the signature. I think such concerns were reasonable and that its up to TSB 
to decide on such  matters when exercising its commercial judgement and not something  I 
can fairly interfere in. I also agree with the investigator that its unlikely the account  could  
have been closed at that stage as there was an outstanding balance.
The main  part of Miss Ss complaint concerns TSBs lack of help towards  her financial 
position and the alleged  telephone call in December 2017. I have looked at TSBs records  
and can see that there  is a record of a call between the parties and an income and 
expenditure assessment which has the same  reference. I accept it would have been 
preferable to have  listened to that call but it is no longer available. I can also see that the 
investigator provided details of that call to Miss S so she could check with her telephone 
provider for evidence that it wasnt made.  But I have not seen  any evidence that Miss S has 
provided about that point.
So Ive come to the conclusion  on balance  that there was a call between the parties and that 
a financial assessment took place. I say that as Im satisfied TSB has a record  of that call 
and a record of the assessment which contains  the same reference number. And Ive not 
seen any evidence that a mistake  has been made here or another customers  details  had 
been used for example. I can also see that Miss S accepts  that at some point she did tell 
TSB about  her financial difficulties. Having accepted that a call took place I think  that TSB 
didnt make a mistake in reaching the conclusion  that Miss S had disposable income and 
that it didnt need to agree a repayment plan.
I appreciate that Miss S says that call didnt take place and that she didnt have an income  at 
that time and her statements  show that to be the case. I have looked through  Miss Ss 
account statement  and I agree that she didnt have a regular salary being paid into the 
account. But I dont  think that is surprising as Miss S was living  abroad at the time and I dont 
think any salary  would have been  paid into her TSB account in any event. I can see that the 
investigator asked Miss S for details  of any other  accounts she held but shes  not 
responded. So I think it likely Miss S did have another account and I can see that she was 
able to make  payments  into her TSB account which again suggests that was from an 
account where she was based.
There is no real dispute  that TSB didnt handle parts of Miss Ss complaint as it should and 
could have helped  her even though she had brought her complaint to us. I dont need to 
explain in detail what those issues are as Im satisfied  the investigator  has explained which  
parts of Miss Ss complaint we can and cant deal with about this issue.  But overall Im 
satisfied that TSB has now fairly agreed to pay what I think  is a fair and reasonable amount 
Ref: DRN34608473of compensation  for this part of the complaint of £150. I think  that award fairly reflects the 
level of distress and inconvenience  that Miss S was caused.
Overall I dont think TSB acted unfairly  or made  a mistake in respect of the main  parts  of 
Miss Ss complaint. I intend  to uphold part of the complaint that relates  only to the issues that 
TSB has agreed to pay compensation for. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order TSB Bank plc to pay Miss S 
£150 compensation. Miss Ss acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3460847