K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unreasonably refused to process his chargeback 
request.
background
In 2013 Mr J submitted  a claim  to another bank (bank2) for mis-sold  PPI, which  bank2  
rejected. In early 2018 Mr J was approached by a claims management company (CMC) 
offering to pursue the PPI claim on his behalf.  He said he provided some  personal details, 
but didnt engage the company  to act on his behalf and didnt enter into any contract  with it. 
In May 2018  Mr J received a letter from bank2  awarding him over £2,000 in settlement  of his 
PPI claim.
The CMC then asked  Mr J to pay its fee of almost £700, which Mr J refused  to do and he 
complained to the CMC. In essence he argued that the settlement from bank2  resulted 
directly from his own PPI claim in 2013 and didnt relate to any action  the CMC may or may 
not have taken. The CMC  didnt uphold  his complaint and continued  to put pressure on him 
to pay its bill. Mr J contacted the Legal  Ombudsman  and on 14 June 2018,  and under  
duress, he paid the CMC  with his HSBC Visa debit card.
On 26 November Mr J contacted HSBC and asked  it to process  a chargeback  for his 
payment to the CMC, which he claimed to have been fraudulent. HSBC said it couldnt 
submit a claim to Visa on his behalf  because he had applied  later than the 120 days  
permitted. It advised  him to contact the CMC  direct to try to resolve matters. Mr J was 
unhappy with this response and so he complained to HSBC.  
At the beginning  of December HSBC replied confirming that Mr J had made his chargeback  
claim too late. 
On 17 December the Legal Ombudsman dismissed Mr Js complaint without considering its 
merits. In summary the ombudsman said that as the CMC had been struck off in August 
2018, no purpose would be served by investigating  Mr Js complaint as the ombudsman  
couldnt require  the CMC to provide any redress even if he found in favour of Mr J.
Mr J then complained to us about HSBC.
Having contacted HSBC our investigator  asked Mr J to provide additional documents as the 
bank had said that, exceptionally, it might  be possible to submit the chargeback claim. But 
having considered Mr Js documents, and contacted Visa, HSBCs position remained 
unchanged.
And so having  looked at the detail of what had happened here,  and in summary, our 
investigator said he agreed with the bank that not only had Mr J made his claim too late, but 
that it wouldnt have  been accepted on its merits even if made on time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35900992The chargeback scheme  in this case is operated by Visa and it is therefore  Visa that 
determines the schemes rules. One rule is that it will only consider claims if these are made 
within 120 days of the transaction complained about. And therefore Mr Js claim to HSBC  on 
26 November about a debit card payment he made on 14 June  was initially deemed  by the 
bank to have been made  too late for it to be forwarded  to Visa for consideration. This was a 
reasonable decision given the scheme  rules.
But Visa is prepared to consider  late claims where claimants present a justifiable reason for 
the delay and where there is a likelihood  that the claim will succeed. Mr J has said he didnt 
contact HSBC earlier because he was dealing with the Legal Ombudsman and hoped to 
resolve matters that way. 
But the Legal Ombudsman didnt  send Mr J its formal  response until after he had 
approached HSBC about the chargeback, and so Im not wholly  persuaded of the merits of 
his argument for complaining late to HSBC.
However, even if the 120 day rule had been waived here, I consider Mr Js claim  to have had 
very little chance of success. I say this because the chargeback  scheme relates to 
purchases of goods or services. Mr J has said he didnt engage the CMC to act on his behalf  
i.e. he wasnt purchasing a service  from them. This being the case the payment he 
subsequently made  to the CMC cannot be said to be a payment for goods or services, and 
as such, that payment is not covered by the chargeback  scheme. I therefore do not consider 
that HSBC acted unreasonably in its handling  of Mr Js chargeback claim. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3590099