K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Curo  Transatlantic Limited  trading as WageDayAdvance (WDA)  lent 
him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr B took out 12 loans  with WDA between November 2014 and March  2017. The first 11 
loans were due to be repaid by one instalment. The final loan was an instalment loan that 
WDA expected Mr B to repay  by six monthly  instalments  of £203.
Mr B says WDA was irresponsible to lend him money as he had to borrow  elsewhere to 
repay the loans.  
Mr B wants  WDA  to refund the interest and charges that hes paid on the loans.
WDA says Mr B declared his monthly  income to be £1,471 for loans one to three, £1,611  for 
loans four to eight,  rising to £1,635 for loans nine to 12.
WDA recorded Mr Bs monthly  outgoings  to vary between £900  and £1,050.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld in part. She thought that 
WDAs checks  went far enough before agreeing loans one to three.  The adjudicator  thought 
that for loan four, WDA  shouldve asked more questions about  Mr Bs other short term 
lending commitments. But the adjudicator thought that if WDA had done this, loan four 
wouldve still appeared affordable for Mr B.
By loan five, the adjudicator thought that WDA shouldve been  carrying out a full review of 
Mr Bs finances. The adjudicator thought  that if WDA had done  this, it wouldnt have agreed 
loans five to 12.
The adjudicator asked WDA to refund  all interest and charges that it had applied to loans 
five to 12 and pay interest  on the refund. The adjudicator asked WDA to remove  any 
negative information  about the affected loans from Mr Bs credit file.
WDA doesnt agree  with everything that the adjudicator recommended. It has offered to put 
things right for loans  five to nine but not loans 10 to 12. 
Mr B wasnt  willing to accept WDAs offer so the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part along the lines recommended by the adjudicator.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make checks  to see whether Mr B could 
afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing, how much he had to repay,  the length of 
the agreements  and his borrowing history. But there  was no set list of checks WDA had to 
do.
Ref: DRN30102012WDA has given us evidence that it asked Mr B for details of his net monthly income  and 
monthly expenditure including rent, utilities and other regular costs before agreeing to lend 
each time.  
loans five to nine
WDA has already agreed to put things right for these loans. As loans five to nine dont  
appear to be in dispute, I dont consider that I need  to say anything  further about them.
loans one to three
It was early on in Mr Bs lending history  with WDA and the loan repayments didnt represent 
a substantial proportion  of his declared monthly income. Like the adjudicator,  Im satisfied 
that WDAs  checks went far enough.
Based on what WDA  knew about  Mr B and the amount he was borrowing, I think it was 
reasonable of WDA  to agree loans one to three.
loan four
By the time Mr B applied  for loan four, hed been borrowing regularly from WDA. I think  that 
the pattern  of lending shouldve raised  concerns  for WDA that Mr B might  have become 
dependent on short term lending.
I think it was proportionate to expect WDA  to ask Mr B about his other short  term loans. 
However, as Mr B doesnt appear  to have had any outstanding short term loans around the 
time of loan four, I cant say that better  checks wouldve made a difference  to WDAs 
decision to lend.
loans ten to 12
The adjudicator said to WDA that from loan five onwards, it shouldve been  carrying out 
comprehensive checks to make sure that Mr B could afford  to repay each  loan in a 
sustainable way.
WDA says that it carried out a credit check before agreeing loan ten. WDA  thinks this means 
that its checks were adequate.
WDA hasnt given us details of the results of the credit check so its difficult  for me to 
comment on it. But I dont think it would change  my decision as a credit report doesnt 
necessarily show the level of information  required to say that a lender has carried out a 
proportionate check.
As Ive got Mr Bs bank statements, I can see that for loans 10 and 11, Mr B had living  costs  
of around £1,200. There is also evidence of at least one other  short term loan and regular 
financial commitments. Even  though Mr Bs monthly  income had increased to £1,635,  he 
wasnt left with enough disposable income  to be able to afford  the repayments of £451 and 
£420.
Ref: DRN30102013Although Mr B was repaying loan 12 by monthly  instalments, the adjudicator has already  
explained to WDA that Mr B was only left with about  £175 disposable  income. This wasnt  
enough for Mr B to sustainably afford to repay  the loan.
As a responsible lender,  I dont think WDA wouldve agreed to lend loans ten to 12 if it had 
carried out proper  checks. Mr B has lost out as a result of taking the loans so WDA  should  
pay him more compensation than it has offered so far.
Mr B still owes money on loan 12. Hes had the benefit of the money lent so its fair to allow 
WDA to apply the refund  against the outstanding principal balance if it chooses.
putting things right
To put things right, WDA  should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans five to 12;
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan 12;
 if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan 12; and
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr Os credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA must give    
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If WDA intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  principal  balance on loan 12, it must do so after 
taking off the tax.
** if after carrying out these steps there is still a principal balance due, I would expect WDA 
to treat any repayment  proposals that Mr B makes, sympathetically and reasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Curo  Transatlantic Limited trading 
as Wage Day Advance to put things  right by doing  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3010201