K822xcomplaint
Mr K is unhappy about issues  with TSB Bank plcs IT system and the impact  this has had on 
him.
background
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. 
In late June a significant sum of money  was withdrawn from Mr Ks account in a series of 
transactions. On discovering this loss, Mr K reported it to TSB on 10 July as unauthorised 
activity. I understand  that a block was immediately  placed on his account,  and that this block  
was removed on 13 July. The money was refunded to his account on 11 July.
A further  large  sum of money was withdrawn on 2 August. Mr K reported this to TSB as an 
unauthorised transaction on the same  day, and a refund was made  the following day. I 
understand that a block was placed on his account  on 2 August and removed on 4 August. 
Mr K has told us he is not confident that all the money he lost through these unauthorised 
transactions has been returned to him
TSB has told us that Mr K contacted them  on 14 August  to report  concerns about  telephone 
access to his account, and blocks were  again  added to the account, which were removed on 
22 August.
On 4 October,  Mr K reported  a further concern, relating to an unknown telephone number 
linked to his account. I understand this was corrected and new online access details were  
provided. TSB has told us a block was placed  on the account on 4 October  and removed on 
5 October. 
On 16 October a further transaction for £40,000 was attempted,  but this was not successful. 
At this point all telephone  and internet banking on the account  was permanently blocked,  
and these blocks remained  in place until the account was closed on 19 December.
I understand that TSB took the decision to start proceedings to close  Mr Ks account on 18 
October 2018, and sent a sixty day closure notification  letter.  I understand TSB attempted to 
call Mr K on 18 October to alert him of this but couldnt get through. Mr K called TSB on 11 
November and the position was confirmed with him by phone at this point. Mr K feels  
account should not have  been closed.
Mr K has said he had a small sum of money that he was able to live on during the period in 
which he was unable  to access  his funds. However,  he says he missed out on a business 
opportunity as a result  of the various  problems described above. Specifically, Mr K says he 
was looking to buy a business and had already  put down £2,000 of an agreed £10,000 
deposit to secure  this, as well as spending  approximately two weeks researching the 
business, and incurring associated travel costs.  He has told us that, due to being unable  to 
access his funds, he couldnt pay the outstanding £8,000 of the deposit, resulting in the loss 
of his £2,000,  his time and his costs, as well as the potential  profit  he wouldve realised from 
the business itself.
Mr K has also told us that he was planning to transfer some  of his money into a different 
currency, and that he was unable to do so. He says that he has lost out on the money  he 
Ref: DRN30574692wouldve made as a result of doing  this, as the currency in question rose in value during this 
time period.
In addition, Mr K has told us that he suffered  stress and concern about  his missing funds, as 
well as the inconvenience of being unable to access his account by telephone and online.  
He says he had to make repeated trips into his branch to use his account due to this. Mr K 
also says he has also spent considerable time on the telephone to TSB, repeatedly 
attempting to reset his details, which he found very frustrating. He has told us he feels  
disappointed and let down by the way he has been treated by TSB.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service and our investigator recommended  TSB pay Mr K 
£750 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by all the issues hed experienced in relation to 
this complaint.
Mr K feels  that £750 is not sufficient to compensate him for his lost time and inconvenience. 
He also wants compensation for the financial losses he says are associated with his failed 
business purchase and currency exchange.  He has requested an ombudsmans  decision, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator. Ive explained  why below.
Ill start by addressing  Mr Ks concerns around  the closure of his account.  TSB are allowed 
to close this account with sufficient notice,  as set out in the account terms and conditions,  
and I understand  this notice has been provided. Mr K finds this frustrating and I sympathise 
with his position, but TSB are entitled  to take this action. As such, I cant make  any award or 
direction in relation to this.
Mr K has also raised concerns that the money that has been refunded in respect of the 
various unauthorised  transactions  outlined  above is not the correct  sum. Weve invited Mr K 
to provide more  detail  about this, but he has not expanded on his concerns. Having reviewed 
the figures, I cant see any discrepancy or outstanding sum owed to Mr K. And it appears  the 
associated transaction  fees have also been  refunded.
Ive gone on to think about  any other financial losses that Mr K may have incurred. Mr K told 
us he had to make visits to the branch that he wouldnt have otherwise made, as well as a 
number of phone calls. However, Mr K hasnt told us he incurred any notable  costs as a 
result, so Im not making any award  in relation to this. 
Ive considered the currency exchange transaction Mr K says he wouldve made if he had 
access to his account. I understand it is difficult for Mr K to prove this intention, but in order 
to be fair to both parties I have to rely on the evidence available  to me. I accept that Mr K did 
exchange currency on previous occasions, but I havent seen enough to confirm  this 
transaction he has mentioned wouldve definitely  taken place. So Im not making an award 
for this.
Ive also thought carefully about the business  purchase Mr K has described, and whether 
compensation is due here. Mr K says he withdrew £2,000 in branch and paid this amount 
towards a non-refundable  £10,000 deposit. However, he says he was unable  to provide the 
Ref: DRN30574693additional £8,000 by the deadline  (which  was approximately  a week  later).  Im not persuaded 
TSB can reasonably be held responsible  for this, as Ill explain below.
Firstly, TSB has told us that Mr K wouldve  been able to withdraw a larger or additional sum 
in branch at any point   even if he didnt have access  to his telephone or online banking.  If 
so, given the urgent circumstances Mr K has described, its not clear  why he didnt withdraw 
the outstanding £8,000 in branch before the deadline for paying the remainder of the deposit 
expired. Weve requested more information  from Mr K about  this, but nothing further has 
been provided.
Secondly, Mr K says the £2,000 he had already paid was forfeited as he couldnt access the 
remaining £8,000.  We have requested any written documents or evidence to support the 
events Mr K has described. Mr K has told us he was given a receipt  for the £2,000 part-
payment he made towards the deposit, but that this has since been lost. He has provided  a 
handwritten note, which states  that Mr K made an offer for the business, and that this offer 
was conditionally accepted subject  to payment of a non-refundable deposit. The note also 
confirms the sums of money Mr K has mentioned.  Mr K has told us this note is from the 
business owner in question.
However, Mr K has been unable to provide any other paperwork associated  with the 
business deal he has described. And it isnt clear that the offer itself, the conditional 
acceptance, or the terms under which the deposit  was to be paid (including  the deposit  
payment deadline and sanctions for not paying in full) were ever formally  documented. Mr K 
has said this is standard  business practice in his industry, but it seems to me that Mr K is 
describing a situation in which he made a £2,000 payment with no security or recourse if 
matters didnt proceed as he expected. So I am unable to confirm  that the sale wouldve 
definitely taken  place in any case.
Overall, based on all the evidence Ive seen,  I cant say that a clear or direct link can be 
drawn between  the TSB system issues and the breakdown of the sale that Mr K has 
described. This also means  no direct link can be drawn to the travel  costs, time and potential  
profit Mr K says he has lost in relation to the failed purchase of the business. So, taking 
everything into account, I havent seen enough evidence to hold TSB liable for the financial 
losses Mr K says hes incurred here.  So Im not making any award for this.
However, I can certainly appreciate that Mr K has experienced worry and inconvenience  as 
a result of all the issues hes had to deal with. And the time he has spent unsuccessfully  
attempting to contact  TSB have  only added to his stress and frustration. So I agree that Mr K 
is entitled to compensation regarding this.
Mr K thinks  the figure of £750  proposed by our investigator isnt high enough to compensate 
him for everything hes experienced. I understand Mr Ks strength of feeling  on the matter, 
but I should explain that its not within this services remit  to sanction or punish businesses, 
but simply to put things  right for individual consumers.  
I also acknowledge that Mr K potentially missed  out on interest on his funds  during  the 
window before they were refunded to him. However, given the short  time period, any interest 
would be nominal, so Im not making a separate award for this. Instead, Ive taken it into 
account when  determining the compensation award.
Overall, having reviewed all the information  relating to this case, I think that £750  is an 
appropriate figure to compensate Mr K for the trouble and upset resulting from TSBs 
Ref: DRN30574694failings. This decision  has been reached having  carefully considered all available  evidence  in 
this specific case,  and in the context of a wider understanding of the amount of 
compensation we would typically award  in cases of a similar nature.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If TSB Bank plc has not already  done so, it 
should pay Mr K £750 for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3057469