K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in 2002.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
The policy  was taken  out during a branch meeting.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Vs representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. It has 
commented that when sold the policy, Mr V was working outside the UK, and that 
consequently he was not eligible for it.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Vs case.
Mr V and his representative have  questioned  whether he was eligible for the policy. I note 
that in their initial submissions, it was stated that when he took out the policy,  Mr Vs job 
meant that he was working outside  the UK for at least three months of the year.  More  
recently, in response  to the adjudicators view, the representative did not mention that his 
working outside of the UK was for at least three  months each year  suggesting  that Mr V 
may have  been  working outside  of the UK all year round.
To be eligible for cover, the policy  terms stated that amongst  other things, Mr V needed to 
have been in work for the past three months in the UK. However, the terms also stated that 
the applicant may be eligible for cover if his employer was a UK registered company, and 
he was assigned to work within the European Union.
It would appear from the mortgage application that Mr V completed  in 2002 that he was 
working at this time for a UK registered  company. I have  asked  Mr Vs representative to 
provide further  details  about his employment  in 2002, and to explain why it considers he was 
not eligible  for the policy based on his job. The representative has not responded. As a 
result, based  on the evidence currently provided, my view at present is that Mr V was eligible 
for the PPI policy.
Mr Vs representative has stated he was told he had to take out PPI in order  to be granted  
the mortgage. I cannot be certain  about  what exactly was discussed at the time that the 
policy was taken out. In the circumstances I must determine what  I consider  is most likely to 
have occurred, based on the available  evidence.
On the mortgage  application form completed  in 2002, there was a section entitled  Mortgage 
Payment Cover. Three boxes were available to be ticked. The option ticked  on the form 
Ref: DRN31053502signed by Mr V confirmed  that he wanted to take out PPI, and that a fully completed  
application form was attached. The two other  boxes available (one for consumers who 
wanted further details about PPI, and the other  for those declining  PPI) were  not ticked.  
Santander has also provided a letter sent to Mr V about PPI when the policy started, in 
which it mentioned  that Mr V had made a choice about taking out PPI.
I have carefully considered Mr Vs comments about how the sale of the PPI was conducted. 
Im mindful that because  the sale took place some years ago, it might be difficult for Mr V to 
remember in detail  what was discussed. Overall based on the balance of evidence provided, 
my view is that it is more likely than not that Mr V was given a choice about whether or not to 
take out PPI, and that he chose to do so.
Santander accepts  that it advised  Mr V to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It also had to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so that Mr V could make a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at Mr Vs circumstances when the policy  was sold,  my view is that the 
recommendation to take out the policy was suitable  for the following reasons:
Mr V has confirmed  that he was entitled to benefits from his employer if he was not 
working, and he has also stated that he had other means to help meet  his mortgage 
repayments. However, the PPI policy would have made  a payment  in the event Mr V had 
been unable  to work due to disability or unemployment, in addition to any other benefits 
that he was entitled  to. Bearing  in mind  the importance of maintaining  mortgage 
repayments, overall my view is that the PPI did provide  a useful benefit to Mr V.
As I explained above, my current view is that Mr V was eligible for the cover.  It also 
seems that he wouldnt have been affected by any of the main things not covered by the 
policy that might make  it unsuitable  for him.
The policy looks to have been affordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Santander didnt give Mr V as much information 
as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy  was suitable for 
him, my view is that better information would  not have put Mr V off taking out the PPI.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr Vs representative confirmed the name  of Mr Vs employer when sold the policy. It stated 
that this was a UK based company. The representative explained that it had asked Mr V to 
confirm in which country he was working.  I agreed to extend the time for Mr V to provide 
further details  in this regard, together  with any documentation he was able to find. However, 
I have heard no further from Mr V or his representative.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have continued  to think about the submissions which have been made about Mr Vs 
employment in 2002, and whether he was eligible for the policy.  In the absence  of any 
Ref: DRN31053503substantive evidence to alter my assessment of this complaint  as outlined in my provisional  
decision, my findings remain as outlined in that decision.
I appreciate that Mr V is likely  to be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but my 
conclusions are that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3105350