K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that the advice he received  from Atkins Bland Limited (Atkins Bland) to 
switch his pensions  to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) was unsuitable. He is also 
unhappy with the level of service received over the years since he received this advice.
background
In 2007 Mr F met with an adviser from Atkins Bland. The adviser recommended Mr F move 
the funds held in his existing personal  pensions to a SIPP. The value of the funds  transferred  
was around £54,000.
Atkins Bland  went on to advise Mr F to invest in two unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCIS), with a small portion  of his fund to be held in cash to cover an amount of 
future fees.  The UCISs were (i) a Mission Germany fund, and (ii) a PFB Data Centre Fund.  
Both were high risk alternative investments.
Mr F was contacted and offered a review of his pensions, this is how he came to receive 
advice from Atkins Bland. The paperwork provided  from the point of sale is limited. The 
suitability report of September 2007  set out Mr Fs circumstances as they had been recorded 
at the time. It was confirmed that Mr F:
Was aged 60 and divorced with two non-dependent children;
Was a plumber  by profession  but had become a self-employed project  manager  
focusing on property  development;
Told the adviser that his earnings  from the business  were in excess of £40,000 per year;
Was a smoker  but in good health;
Had an interest-only  mortgage of £190,000 on his primary property. Although he said he 
had plans to renovate it with a view to sell on the property.
Told the adviser that he had off-shore  investments but details of these were not discussed.
The suitability report also documented Mr Fs then existing personal pension provision. Based 
on this Mr F held pensions with two providers. Most of the plans  were  retirement  annuity  
contracts with guaranteed levels of income. These were invested in with-profits  funds.
Atkins Bland  recommended that Mr F switch his existing personal pensions  to a SIPP and 
invest these as noted above.  Around  the time of the advice Mr F was provided with some 
information about the investments and the risks involved.
Ref: DRN39066992Amongst other things, the suitability report said that:
Even though  a Self-Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP) is the most expensive option 
due to the fixed annual charges, it was your preference to go down this route as you 
wish to invest in syndicated property  based investment funds. Enclosed with this letter  
is the Atkins Bland  Guide  to Syndicated Property based investment, which goes into 
more detail of how these operate. Atkins Bland consider these to be above average 
risk investments and I will draw your attention  to the risk involved specifically focusing 
on the GEARING aspects. You advised  me that you are comfortable with the above 
average risk nature  of these investments and the lack of liquidity which  could push the 
maturity date of these investments beyond your 65th birthday.
Mr F withdrew tax-free cash from his pension  in 2008.
Subsequently, Mr F lost his business and his house,  and he moved  to a mobile home. Atkins  
Bland was not aware of his new contact details until 2014. Atkins  Bland wrote  to Mr F in 
February 2016. It apologised for not responding sooner to a valuation request he had made 
in correspondence  dated 25 November 2015.  In the February 2016  letter  Atkins Bland 
referred to a letter it said it had sent Mr F in October  2014. Atkins  Bland attached the 
October 2014 letter, and said that there  had been  no significant change  since  then.
Mr F insists he did not receive  a letter from Atkins  Bland in 2014. The letter dated 1 October 
2014 provided, amongst other  things,  that:
I am writing further to your recent request for further  information  on the holdings in 
your SIPP, together  with the implications of the proposed changes to pensions with 
effect from 6 April 2015
We have been  unable to provide you with ongoing  updates due to the fact that we 
have not had contact address details for a few years.
Unfortunately, therefore, I have to report some disappointing news  with regards to the 
performance of the 2 funds that you hold in the SIPP.
It went on to inform Mr F that the Mission Germany UCIS in which Mr F had invested 
£16,000 had failed, and said:
Unfortunately, with hindsight it is clear that the global property market  was peaking 
around 2007/08. However,  nobody could have foreseen the severity of the 2008/09  
financial crisis  and the significant negative  impact that it would have on global property  
based investment.  Economic risks were always a potential risk with this investment 
and unfortunately  this is what  eventually materialised.
In relation to PFB Data Centre Fund  it indicated that the fund had been having problems but 
there was some suggestion that there may be reason  for optimism:
Therefore, although  the original target date for exit of the fund is next year in 2015, we 
cannot be certain that it will be in the interest  of shareholders (such  as yourself)  to exit 
at that point giving the general upturn in the European economy. It may therefore be 
more pertinent  to consider  that the fund manager will not consider  selling  the value of 
your shares until such time as the potential sale once is optimised. I cannot therefore  
offer any detail with regards to a fair market valuation, or any indication as to the 
eventual price that will be achieved on exit.
Ref: DRN39066993In the letter  of 3 February  2016,  Atkins Bland offered to buy Mr Fs shares in the PFB Data 
Centre Fund  (in which  Mr F had invested  £36,000)  for 20p a share  (roughly £7,000 in total) 
and cover the cost of outstanding SIPP fees. The letter said:
To compound matters, [name of SIPP provider] have taken a stance  we feel is 
appalling and have hugely increased their fees for holding assets  in their SIPP.
We were not aware that they would have an ability to do this beyond  traditional 
escalation to reflect inflation and, since we recommended the company as a low cost 
option for a SIPP we are taking the view that, while we feel entirely let down by the low 
ethical standards  applied  by the company, it is wrong that our clients  should  suffer 
because of this.
We have therefore  decided to offer to pay these  escalated  fees for clients  impacted by 
this and to arrange a transfer to another administrator to remove these high fees,  
without any charges for the work involved.
If you would  like to take advantage of this I am able to also offer to buy the shares  you 
hold in the PFB Data Centre Fund at the currently quoted NAV of 20p per share, so 
you can have the value in cash and can then withdraw this if you wish to.
I really cannot say if the eventual value of these  shares will be higher or lower than this 
or when  (or if) any value  will be available for an eventual wind up, so cannot say if this 
offer represents a good option  or not in terms of any eventual value However, it would 
resolve the issue of making the current quoted value available to you, so I thought  it 
appropriate to suggest it in case this is of interest  to you.
Mr F spoke  to Atkins Bland on 10 February 2016  to discuss the investment. Atkins Bland reminded 
him of their offer and suggested it may be the best option  available to him in the circumstances to 
give him access to the remaining value of his pension and avoid losing anymore.
Mr F called the firm again on 15 February  2016 saying that he wanted to accept the offer 
because he wanted  to get the money  working as soon as possible and had a time-limited 
investment offer elsewhere.
Atkins Bland  provided  a copy of its notes from a meeting  with Mr F on 18 February 2016 
when Mr F signed the declaration accepting its offer. At the end of the note Atkins  Bland 
confirm that:
He also signed the note stating his agreement to buy - out the shares and for us to 
pay the fee arrears  and also that this was in full and final settlement on any claims 
against Atkins Bland  Ltd relating  to his [name of SIPP provider] SIPP.
The declaration signed on 18 February 2016  provided that:
"Further to Atkins Bland Ltd letter dated 3 February 2016, I accept their offer to buy out 
the value of my shareholding in the PFB Data Centre Fund at the current Net Asset 
value of £0.20 per share.
I also accept their offer to pay all fee arrears currently totalling £3447.75 directly  to
[name of SIPP provider] and to pay all fees that will be levied by [name of SIPP
provider] on proceeding with the Flexi Access  Drawdown.
Ref: DRN39066994I understand and agree  that, as part of this sale, I give up any entitlement  to any 
payments or receipts relating to my holding in the PFB Data  Centre Fund and that this 
is in full and final settlement  of any claims against  Atkins Bland Ltd relating to my 
[name of SIPP provider] SIPP."
Based on the documentation we have seen prior to 18 February 2016, Atkins  Bland had not 
said that, as a condition of it buying out Mr Fs shares in the PFB Data  Centre  Fund, he would  
need to give up the right to bring any future claims against Atkins Bland relating to his SIPP.  
Mr F received the monies in line with Atkins  Blands offer and the SIPP was closed.
Mr F went on to make  a complaint about Atkins Bland  in June 2016, in particular about  the 
suitability of the advice he received in 2007 and the level of service provided since then.
complaint background
Atkins Bland  issued its final response  letter on 9 August 2016, it did not uphold  Mr Fs
complaint. It said:
Your first contact with Atkins Bland was August 2007, when you responded to a 
telephone call offering an appointment to review your pension investment 
arrangements
From this I understand  you wanted to invest with an above average risk and were keen on 
options linked to property development, which tied in with your own business activities.
The letter also says that you wanted  to invest the money in your pension funds for long 
term capital growth and were happy to use investments which could  tie the capital  up 
beyond the traditional pension age of 65.
And
However, while I have no evidence in this respect,  I do feel that, based on your high 
earnings and involvement with property development,  you would have been treating 
your pension fund as too modest to make  any substantial difference  to your life so 
were comfortable taking the risks with it which you chose to when proceeding with the 
investments recommended to you.
Atkins Bland  said it thought the complaint had been brought out of time  and that, as part of 
the 18 February 2016 agreement, Mr F had given up any right to make a claim against  
Atkins Bland  for any reason in relation to his SIPP.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint, he concluded that it had been brought  in 
time, but he did not think it should  be upheld on the basis that a settlement had been 
reached in full and final settlement of any claim Mr F may have against Atkins Bland in 
respect of his SIPP.
Because agreement  was not reached at this stage the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
Ref: DRN39066995An ombudsman reviewed  the complaint and initially issued a decision addressing time only - 
she found that the complaint had been  brought in time.  She then went on to issue  a provisional  
decision on whether  or not we should consider  the merits of the complaint in light of the 
settlement reached. She determined that Mr F was not bound by the settlement reached   
and, in turn, that he was not prevented  from bringing a complaint to our service now.
The complaint was then passed to me to review. Both parties made further submissions in 
response to the previous ombudsmans decision. I considered these in their entirety along 
with the previous submissions made,  I have included a brief list of the key points made here.
What Mr F said:
Prior to the advice he held two personal  pensions, the cumulative value of these before 
exit charges was around £58,000.  Atkins Bland recommended that he switch  to a SIPP 
on the basis  that his pensions  had not paid bonuses  on the funds for a number of years.
At 69 he contacted Atkins Bland about accessing  his pension only to be told that it was 
only worth £7,200  he had taken these funds and agreed to the settlement to avoid  
further losses.
He had been told that the investments were not high risk and was not informed about 
the problems with the investments.
The investments had clearly been  mismanaged and the SIPP  provider had charged fees 
even though it clearly  did not properly manage  his pension.
He would have pulled out of the investments earlier had he been  informed of what was 
happening with them, but he was not.
He signed the 18 February 2016  settlement because was just keen to get what he could 
out of the pension  to avoid losing any more money.  He is still working full-time in his 
seventies due to Atkins Blands incompetence.
What Atkins  Blands representative said:
It said that we do not have jurisdiction to consider the complaint because  payment had already 
been accepted  in full and final settlement of any claims.  It reserved the right to make  additional 
submissions on the time-bar and the merits of the complaint should  the matter  progress.
The firm wrote to the complainant on 3 February 2016 setting out the drop in the value 
of his investments, the increase in SIPP fees and that it was able to offer to buy him out 
of the investment  so he could get the cash and withdraw from the SIPP.
It then met with the complainant on 18 February 2016. It was recorded  that the 
complainant was keen to have access to the funds. The settlement form was signed on 
the same day.
The language  used in the settlement is clear and simple, Mr F was aware  that he was 
accepting the payment  in full and final settlement of any claims relating to his SIPP. The 
settlement was paid,  and the SIPP was closed. This complaint clearly related to his 
SIPP and, as such, was covered by the settlement  agreement.
Ref: DRN39066996DISP INTRO 1 states as follows: "Chapters 2, 3 and 4 set out how the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (operated by FOS Ltd) considers  unresolved complaints." So, this 
service only has the power  to deal with unresolved  complaints. Regardless of whether 
or not we consider  the terms of the settlement  to have been appropriate, any complaint 
about the SIPP was resolved under the terms of the settlement.
Whilst the complainant  had not made a complaint, the settlement covered any claims he 
may have.
This service has the power to consider  complaints,  not to consider whether or not an 
agreement reached  between two parties  was binding  this is a legal question and in 
considering this we are stepping outwith the statutory power  afforded to this service.
If we maintain  that this is a complaint we can consider,  we must set out under what  
statutory power  we have the right to determine the validity of a signed settlement 
agreement  if we cannot do so, the answer must  be that the complainants right of 
action is extinguished, and the complaint  should  be rejected.
Even if we did have the power  to consider  the validity of the agreement, which  is denied,  
there is no justification for reaching  the finding  that it is not binding.
The settlement was clearly  entered into on the basis  that the complainant was waiving 
his right to bring any further claims against the firm. The complainant was in financial 
difficulty but there is no evidence that this meant he could not understand the 
settlement. This is an assessment of capacity which this service is neither qualified  to 
do, nor does it have  the power to do this. There was no duress or undue influence  
involved and any assessment of this outwith the services  scope and expertise.
Again, the language was clear  and simple. It is not clear what  else the complainant 
could have  been told to make the position clearer to him.
This services fair and reasonable jurisdiction does not extend  to considering whether it 
is fair to conclude  that a complainant should  be bound by the terms of a settlement  
this is a question  for the courts. If this service did have such powers this would 
undermine the principles of freedom of contract and would create uncertainty for any 
parties looking  to settle complaints.
Whilst the firm denied  that we have the power to reopen the issue,  it submitted that we had 
also erred in a number  of our findings,  in particular:
The firm did provide  updates as and when these were received. The complainant  did not 
inform it that he changed address and had a history of not responding to 
correspondence. In any case,  this is not relevant to his capacity to enter into a 
settlement agreement.
We have suggested that the complainant was uninformed. The call recording provided 
shows that this is not the case,  this shows that he was thinking  clearly, had discussed 
the investments with a number of parties. He was keen  to accept  the offer because 
wanted to make  another investment which he had already  lined up.
The adviser recalls the meeting as being  polite and good  natured.
Ref: DRN39066997The complainant called the firm on 10 February  2016 to discuss  the offer, the recording 
demonstrates that he was well informed and had undertaken  some research in relation 
to the SIPP provider and investment. There is nothing  in the conversation  to indicate  
that the complainant was under any sort of pressure.
The complainant then called the firm again on 15 February 2016 saying that he wanted to 
accept the offer because he wants to get the money  working as soon as possible.  These  are 
not the actions of someone who is under duress or in some way compelled to accept the offer.  
He then called  again on 24 February  2016 to chase the settlement payment  as he needed the 
money in the bank  by that Friday  because someone was coming down from London.
The expression full and final settlement was not only included in the internal meeting 
note as has been suggested,  it is also in the settlement  agreement.
In conclusion it said:
In summary,  FOS has assessed the Complainants  circumstances  and seems  to have 
used these to conclude that he was vulnerable.  FOS goes on to imply  that our client  
took advantage of this vulnerability, a suggestion which is firmly  denied.
Conclusion
FOS simply does  not have  the statutory power  to determine whether a settlement 
agreement is valid. For this reason alone,  the complaint  should  be rejected.
Beyond this, there is nothing whatsoever to indicate that the Complainant did not 
understand what he was agreeing  to or that he was in any way pressured  or 
coerced into signing the agreement. Therefore, even if FOS did have the power to 
look at this, there is no justification for concluding  that the settlement is not binding.
If FOS maintains  that they have  the power  to look at this complaint, we ask that 
you set out in detail  why you believe you have  this power, with reference to any 
relevant legislation  or statutory instruments.
In addition to its further  submissions Atkins  Blands representative sent recordings of the
telephone conversations  Atkins Bland had with Mr F around the time of the settlement, I
have used these  to help establish what information Mr F was provided around the time of the
settlement and the nature of the relationship between him and Atkins Bland at that time.
Having considered the representations Ive summarised above,  I sent my provisional  
decision to Atkins Bland and Mr F explaining  why I thought we could  and should  consider the 
complaint, and that I thought we should reach a conclusion about  the merits of the 
complaint. I said that I would consider  anything  else either party  wanted  to add. My 
provisional findings are attached and form part of this decision. 
Both parties  responded.
What Atkins Bland said:
Jurisdiction/Dismissal 
The findings of fact the conclusions in respect of undue influence are based on, for 
example, are unsubstantiated  in the evidence provided. 
Ref: DRN39066998We have moved beyond our jurisdiction in making findings of law that we do not have 
the capability  or the right to do. 
We must  take into account the relevant caselaw, and if we deviate from this we need to 
explain why, and we have failed to do so in this instance. 
There cannot  now be a valid complaint given that any cause of action was extinguished 
by the agreement.  
Although it investigated the complaint in line with the regulators requirements for 
complaint handling,  its conclusion  that there could be no liability due to the settlement 
being valid and binding is correct  the settlement cannot reasonably be discarded. 
In reaching our findings we have discarded sections of DISP,  whilst stretching others to 
breaking point  to support the conclusions  reached.  This is evidence  of bias.  
The intention  of DISP intro 1 is that it limits our jurisdiction  to dealing with complaints 
which have not been resolved. 
Our interpretation  of the meaning  of resolved is illogical based on DISP  1.5.2A. 
The fact that Mr F had not complained about the 2007 advice when he signed  the 
agreement does  not change the fact that the agreement  extinguished  any right of action. 
There can be no sensible argument that we have jurisdiction to hear complaints where  
the subject matter is already subject to a settlement agreement.  
We do not have the power to make  decisions based on the legality of a settlement 
agreement or whether  or not it should  be enforceable.  
Our conclusions in respect of whether the contract should be disregarded are 
unsupportable. 
No evidence  has been offered of Mr Fs alleged vulnerability. 
Given the sums  involved the drop in Mr Fs pension  value  would not likely have a 
significant impact on his long-term  security.  
We have concluded that Mr F was advised that accepting the offer was his best option, 
as a matter of law, persuasion is not synonymous with undue influence.
Mr F was not under any time pressure from it, any time pressure came  from elsewhere.  
We have concluded that the declaration was included at the last minute but there is no 
evidence of this. 
It is for the party alleging  actual  undue influence to prove it, Mr F has not proven this, so 
we should proceed  on the basis that there was no such  influence.  To demonstrate 
undue influence  it needs to be shown that one partys judgment was overpowered, as 
opposed to that party  simply having been  influenced by lesser acts of persuasion. 
Ref: DRN39066999In this instance there  was no basis to conclude that there was a special relationship of 
trust and confidence.  
Mr F was not forced to accept the offer, regardless of whether or not this was a bad bargain, 
he chose to accept  the offer because he wanted  to use the money  to make an investment. 
The legal  position  has to be that there  was no actual undue influence.  
There is also no basis for a finding  of presumed undue influence.  
The call recordings  provided clearly  demonstrate  he was of sound mind, he was not 
intimidated, he had time to consider  the offer, and was not put under pressure by it 
Time-bar 
Even if the letter  17 September 2012  was not received, although it ought to have been 
because Mr F ought to have arranged for his post to be forwarded, the complaint is still 
time-barred. 
It would have  been clear from the point of advice that the investments were  higher risk 
so, if he did not want  to take this level of risk, he ought to have been aware from 2007 
that he had cause for complaint.
It is alleged that it agreed from the outset that Mr F would receive yearly valuations  of 
his investments but that these were  not sent  this should have alerted  Mr F to an issue 
or, at least, prompted him to look into what the value of his pension was. 
The original  investment term was stated  to be 5-7 years. When  the returns  were not 
achieved, and the investments did not mature within this timeframe this should  have 
alerted Mr F to any issues with the advice  on this basis his complaint would have been 
out of time by 2014 at the latest.
If the level of risk or tying of the funds for several  years was unsuitable given Mr Fs age, 
he would have  been aware of this from 2007. 
In summary, if we accept that what Mr F has said about his position at the time of the 
advice, it follows  that he would have been aware of these issues  at the point of advice  
and the complaint  is therefore time-barred. 
Merits 
We have made assumptions as to what would have happened  in the counterfactual 
scenario which have not been verified  or tested.
Mr F wanted to invest in property  development, he was willing to accept the risks 
involved, had the capacity  to accept the risk, and had an above average risk appetite. 
Mr F he accepted that the term of the investment could extend  beyond his 65th birthday  
and was not concerned about  the lack of liquidity.
Ref: DRN390669910The advice  that we concluded ought to have been  given  does not match Mr F stated, 
preferred strategy risk profile. 
What Mr F is saying now does not match  what the evidence shows his position  to have 
been at the time of the advice. 
Finding that Mr F would have listened  to what I have found  to be suitable advice is pure 
speculation, the evidence demonstrates that he was a risk taker who was motivated to 
invest in property.  
Redress
The plans from both providers had guarantees attached, so it did not make sense to 
treat these  differently. 
Based on our assessment of suitable advice, it should have been recommended that all 
of the plans be retained. 
The amount awarded distress & inconvenience is arbitrary and unfounded in the 
circumstances.
The 8% interest awarded is punitive  and not based on a return  that could have been  
achieved without  investing in high-risk investments, which  we found  to have been 
unsuitable. 
What Mr F said:
The investments were  recommended to him by Atkins  Bland,  he did not approach it 
looking to make  these investments.
The benchmark would provide  a more reasonable reflection of growth over the time 
since the advice.  
He wants to arrange his income in retirement himself. He does not want any further 
dealings with Atkins Bland after what has happened. 
Having reviewed the submissions made, I concluded that Mr F ought to have been  advised 
to retain  all of his existing  pensions.  I sent the revised draft redress findings  to Atkins Bland 
and Mr F and invited both parties  to make further and final submissions  in response to this. I 
have incorporated  their responses in the summaries  set out above. 
my findings
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis  of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we can consider and should 
consider. So, I have also considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint to determine the merits of 
the complaint.
Ref: DRN390669911Has this complaint  been brought  in time?
The issue  of whether or not the complaint  has been brought  time has been addressed by the 
adjudicator and the previous ombudsman.  I agree  with the findings reached. Here, I have 
focused on addressing the latest arguments raised by Atkins Bland. In particular, that:
It would have  been clear from the point of advice in 2007 that the investments were 
higher risk so, if Mr F did not want to take this level of risk he ought to have been aware 
from that point that he had cause for complaint.
It is alleged that it agreed from the outset that Mr F would receive yearly valuations  of 
his investments but that these were  not sent  this should have alerted  Mr F to an issue 
or, at least, prompted him to look into what the value of his pension was. 
The original  investment term was stated  to be 5-7 years, when the returns  were not 
achieved, and the investments did not mature within this timeframe this should  have 
alerted Mr F to any issues with the advice  on this basis his complaint would have been 
out of time by 2014 at the latest.
If the level of risk or tying of the funds for several  years given Mr Fs age was unsuitable, 
he would have  been aware of this from the point of the advice. 
In summary, if we accept that what Mr F has said about his position when he received 
the advice in 2007, it follows  that he would have been  aware these issues  at the point of 
advice and the complaint is time-barred. 
Mr Fs complaint is that the advice he received was unsuitable and the investments were  higher 
risk than he was led to believe.  Atkins  Bland advised  Mr F to switch  his pensions  and invest in 
unregulated alternative  investments, which it said were suitable for him. He followed this advice. 
I do not agree that I could reasonably conclude that Mr F ought to have been aware at that 
point that he had cause for complaint. In relation to risk the suitability  report  said:  
you are comfortable adopting  an above  average  risk investment for your 
pension funds. 
This is not qualified or defined within the suitability report. Without definition this term could 
include a very wide range of investment strategies, anything from the higher end of medium 
risk and up. Investing the entirety of Mr Fs pension provision in two unregulated 
alternatives investments  with limited track records is what  I would consider to be an 
extremely high risk invest strategy. I am not persuaded  (and havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest) that this was or would have been clear  to Mr F at the point of sale.  In any case,  as 
above, this was recommended to Mr F as suitable for him by a professional financial 
adviser (Atkins Bland). I am not persuaded that Mr F realised that it was not suitable until 
he saw the impact of investing his pension in this way and I dont think he did more than 
three years before he raised  his complaint.  
In relation to liquidity  the suitability report said:
you felt more content to focus  on long term capital growth  even if the term of these 
investments goes beyond your 65th.
Ref: DRN390669912With examples of investment terms being 5-7 years, the longer term would take him two 
years beyond his normal  retirement. The above statement does indicate that Mr F was 
willing to accept this for long term growth. Even so, I dont think this meant  that Mr F 
understood he was subject  to the risk of not being able to exit the investments at all or that 
this meant  the advice  was suitable.  
If the investments had matured as suggested  they should have matured  by 2014. Atkins 
Bland believe  that Mr F ought reasonably to have realised there were issues  with the 
investment from that point  and his complaint would have been out of time from 2014.  Even  if 
I were  to accept that that would have been sufficient to alert Mr F to the fact that he had 
cause for complaint, this would only serve to trigger the three-year rule and Mr F complained  
within three years of 2014 (which, as Ive noted  above, he did).  
Having taken everything into account, I am satisfied that the complaint has been brought  in time. 
Other jurisdiction  and dismissal considerations
On 11 January 2021, Atkins Blands solicitors  sent a response  to my provisional decision. 
They raised several points which - they say - mean  I cant look behind the terms of the 
settlement agreement. Their letter repeats several  points they made previously, and makes 
some new arguments about  some  of my provisional conclusions.  My responses  below  
should be considered in parallel with the views on this issue  I set out in the Provisional  
Decision. 
I have addressed Atkins Blands points in turn:
The settlement extinguished Mr Fs right to complain. 
I dont agree. A complaint is an expression  of dissatisfaction  about the provision of a 
financial service by a regulated firm. Mr F hadnt complained about the original advice  
when he signed  the settlement agreement. The DISP rules dont say that if a customer 
signs a settlement agreement, they cant complain  about the advice that agreement  covers.  
DISP 1.5.2A states that a complaint is resolved  when the complainant has indicated 
acceptance of a response from the respondent, with neither the response nor the 
acceptance having to be in writing.  The agreement was in writing,  so that in any normal 
sense, this is an acceptance by the Complainant  of a response from [Atkins  Bland]. Any 
other interpretation is unsupportable and the only conclusion  that can be reached  is that 
the complaint has been resolved.
I dont agree. When he signed the settlement agreement, Mr F hadnt complained/raised  
any concerns about the original advice. DISP  1.5.2A  only applies to complaints, so 
doesnt apply  here.  
My reasoning that there is nothing in the DISP  rules that clearly  says that Mr F isnt 
allowed to complain  to us is surprising, since if it is right there  would be nothing to 
prevent FOS from hearing  a complaint in respect  of any matter that had previously been 
compromised by the parties.
The DISP  rules dont  say that Mr F isnt allowed to complain to us. I think the real 
issue is whether  in the circumstances of the case  I should dismiss it without 
considering the merits. 
Ref: DRN390669913Nowhere do the DISP Rules state that FOS can consider  legal questions  (such as the 
validity of a settlement  or, as we will see later, questions of undue influence).  FOS has 
jurisdiction to decide complaints and must have consideration of the law when doing so. 
The power to actually make decisions based  on the legality  of a settlement agreement  is 
a power that FOS simply does not have.
I dont agree. The DISP  rules say that an Ombudsman must determine  a complaint by 
reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the 
case, and that I must consider relevant law and regulations in considering what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. The settlement account  is directly 
linked to the original advice  and therefore comes  within all the circumstances of the 
case. So, I have to consider the law relating to that agreement. And Atkins  Bland do 
seem to suggest I should consider the law relating  to that agreement   they just want  
me to decide  that Mr F should be bound  by it. 
There is no basis for FOS to believe it has any power to determine where or not a 
contract should be enforceable. Only a court can decide this. FOS has no legal remit 
and no specialist  legal knowledge whatsoever, and it is not fair or reasonable for this 
question to be decided  by a layperson. The beginning and the end of the matter should 
be that the contract is binding, that FOS cannot  look at the complaint and that the matter 
should be dismissed.
I dont agree that I have no legal remit, and there is nothing in legislation,  the DISP 
rules or in cases decided  by the courts that obviously prohibits me from considering  this 
issue. If Atkins Bland  were right, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for us to consider any 
legal issues, even though the DISP rules  require that we do. I also think it ignores that 
the Ombudsman Service is an alternative  to the courts, and that in principle I have the 
power to consider any complaint that is within the jurisdiction as defined by DISP 2, 
unless I think there  are good  reasons  to dismiss it. 
Beyond the most basic level, the Decision contains no assessment of the relevant law.
Our decisions arent court judgments. Theyre designed to be accessible, and to give 
proper reasons for our decisions. My provisional decision summarised and considered 
the legal  principles that say when a contract  might be set aside because one party used  
undue influence. I have  considered those  principles against the facts of the case in 
reaching this Final Decision. 
It is for a party alleging undue influence  to prove  it, and Mr F hasnt even suggested 
there was undue influence, let alone prove it.
I think this misunderstands the Ombudsman  Services process. The Ombudsman  
service isnt adversarial  like a court, where  one party needs to prove  their case.  The 
DISP rules dont impose any sort of burden  of proof. I have  to look at the evidence  
before me and decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
One would need to show that one partys judgment was overpowered,  as opposed  to 
that party  simply  having been  influenced by lesser acts of persuasion. Again, there  is no 
evidence whatever that the Complainant was unable to exercise  his free and rational 
judgment in relation  to the Agreement.  FOS also fails to set out what  position of 
influence our client could possibly have had... there is not even a basis to conclude  that 
there was a special  relationship of trust and confidence.
Ref: DRN390669914I dont agree that a court would need to be satisfied that Mr Fs judgment was 
overpowered. Atkins Blands advice and influence was sufficiently significant that it 
meant Mr F was deprived of a proper opportunity to make a free choice.  Atkins Bland 
actively steered Mr F to accept its offer as his best option, and introduced the settlement 
clause very late. I think Mr F relied  on and trusted  Atkins Bland to give him advice, and 
that Atkins Bland abused  that trust. 
To find undue influence there will need  to be coercion.
I dont think this is right. I think Atkins Bland may be thinking about  when a contract 
might be set aside on the basis that the weaker party was coerced into it i.e. was acting 
under duress. I think the question is whether Mr F could exercise an independent and 
informed judgment.  And I think that  looking at the background and the agreement  as a 
whole  Atkins Bland  exploited Mr Fs trust to get him to sign the settlement agreement 
without proper consideration or explanation.  
The reason  the Complainant accepted  the offer was because  he wanted  to "get this 
money working" and make an investment with the funds  quickly... He was in no way 
forced to make  this decision  The motivating factor  was quite separate from any 
influence that could have been  exerted  by our client. Quite simply, it was his wish to 
enter the Agreement  as he wanted  to use the money  to make an investment. In 
addition, AB have  stated that persuasion is not unlawful and that there must be clear 
proof of the facts  constituting undue  influence, whereas here the allegations are 
wholly unsubstantiated..
I addressed this in detail  in the provisional  decision. Although  the buyout offer 
appears to have been at a fair market rate, the settlement  clause changed the nature 
of the agreement. 
This wasnt a transaction requiring an explanation. There  was a clear explanation for this 
transaction, which is that Mr F wanted to get what he could  out of his pension to avoid 
losing any more  money. So there is no proper basis to find there  was undue influence.
I discussed this in the provisional decision.  Atkins Bland havent addressed my 
conclusion that the agreement as a whole  including the settlement  clause   required 
an explanation.  As I said in the provisional  decision, Im concerned  about  the effect of 
that clause, as well as the way it appears to have been included  at a very late stage with 
little or no discussion.  And I think Atkins Bland havent provided  a proper explanation for 
the settlement  clause  and how it was introduced. 
I have to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That includes 
considering relevant law. If I depart from relevant law, I have  to explain why Ive done so. 
But I dont think I need to in this case. Im satisfied  that my approach doesnt obviously go 
against legal  principles about  when  one party has used undue influence  to enter into an 
agreement. Although I cant  say for certain what a court  would decide,  I think  theres a 
proper basis to suggest Atkins Bland used undue influence in relation to the settlement 
agreement. 
Ref: DRN390669915Ive considered Atkins Blands recent  arguments,  and am satisfied that my conclusion on this 
issue in the provisional decision remains appropriate:
Although I think there are good  reasons to think a court would set the 18 February  
2016 agreement  aside, I recognise that it is difficult to predict what  a court might do in 
an individual case. And that what is fair and reasonable  may go beyond  what a court  
might do. I also have to look at other  issues. I have reminded myself that Atkins  Bland 
was subject to the general duties under the FCA. The FCA Principles mean  that Atkins 
Bland had a duty to treat Mr F fairly in 2016. For all the reasons I have discussed 
above, I am satisfied that Atkins Bland did not treat him fairly.
I think this goes beyond  Mr F freely making  a bad deal and then trying to back  out of it 
by complaining to the Ombudsman  Service. Mr F was in a very difficult position, and 
Atkins Bland  knew this. Mr F had to give up any right to bring a claim against  Atkins  
Bland about  his overall investment for a sum that was a fraction  of what  he had 
originally invested.  By the time Atkins  Bland introduced  the words  about a full and final 
settlement - which I think it did in a way that was not fair - Mr F did not have a proper 
opportunity to consider what the overall implications were or to take advice on this part 
of the agreement. I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable for me to find that 
Mr F should not be bound  by the settlement agreement.
In line with the above I am satisfied that this is a complaint that we can and should  consider, 
so I have gone on to consider the merits of the complaint.  
My findings  on the merits of the complaint  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress 
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant.
I have considered all of the submissions made  by Atkins Bland and Mr F, I remain  of the 
view that Atkins Blands advice was unsuitable  for Mr F for the same reasons  as set out in 
my provisional decision, which should be considered  in parallel with this decision.  Briefly:
The pensions switched  appear  to have  been Mr Fs only pension provision aside from 
whatever state pension  entitlement he may have.
Mr F gave up guarantees attached  to his pensions upon switching to the SIPP. 
The switches and subsequent investments resulted in a very significant increase in the 
level of risk Mr F was exposed to.
There is no indication  that Mr F was a very high-risk  investor or that he had the capacity 
for loss to afford to employ such a strategy  with his only personal retirement  provision.
Ref: DRN390669916The purpose of Mr Fs pension was to provide him with an income in retirement, and 
around the time of the advice he was turning 60. So, he had very little time before his 
normal retirement  age to recover any losses suffered  and there is no evidence  that he 
had alternative provision in place.
The advice  for Mr F to switch his personal pension provision to a SIPP  to invest  all of it 
in unregulated investments was clearly unsuitable.  In saying this I acknowledge that it is 
likely Mr F was keen  to make the investments he made based on the information he was 
provided by Atkins  Bland  and his familiarity with the property business  but this does 
not make the advice  suitable.
If Mr F had been suitably advised, he would have listened  to this. 
I think the date he actually withdrew  the remaining  value of his pension  subsequent to 
Atkins Blands  offer  is a fair approximation  for the date he would most likely have 
drawn benefits from his pension  had suitable  advice been given.
I have acknowledged  and addressed Mr Fs acceptance of an above average investment 
risk and the fact that the term of the investment may go beyond  his normal retirement age in 
the section dealing with whether or not the complaint has been brought in time. For the sake 
of completeness, the approach employed  in this instance was very high risk and I am not 
persuaded the Mr F did accept that level risk or that it was suitable for him. Whilst Mr F may 
have been aware  that the term of the investments may go beyond  his normal retirement age, 
I dont think this made the investments  recommended suitable for him. 
Whilst Mr Fs pension  provision may have been relatively modest,  that is not a justification  
for subjecting it to significant risk. If anything, it made it all the more  important  to preserve 
the provision he had and try increase  this where possible. 
In line with the revised redress I sent to Atkins Bland and Mr F, I think  that suitable  advice 
would have been for Mr F to retain his existing pensions due to the security  that the 
guarantees attached to these provided. I am not persuaded that Mr F was likely  to disregard 
suitable advice  from his financial adviser.  
Fair compensation
I am satisfied that if Atkins Bland had acted  fairly  and reasonably and fulfilled its obligations
this would have  put a stop to the transaction and Mr F would never  have arrived at the
SIPP providers door. I have found  that suitable  advice would have been for Mr F to retain
his existing plans   because of this, I find that Atkins Bland  should compensate  Mr F for
the full measure of his losses  as set out below.
Mr F should be put as closely as possible  to the position he would likely now be in if he had
not been given unsuitable advice. As I have explained above,  I think  that Mr F ought  to
have been told that switching to a SIPP was not suitable for him  and, I think that if he had
been given suitable advice, he would  have listened to this.
If Mr F had been suitably advised,  I am satisfied he would have retained his existing
policies and most likely taken the benefits when they were payable close to when he
withdrew benefits from his SIPP  but, I do think he would have accessed  benefits on the
open market at that time if these were  significantly better (I have explained  what this
means in more detail  below). So, Atkins Bland will need to work out what  loss Mr F has
suffered through not receiving these benefits  and what  it would likely cost Mr F to now buy
the future  benefits  that would have  been  payable.
Ref: DRN390669917I have split the redress methodology into two main  parts one covering the RACs and the
second covering  the other policy.
Mr F withdrew tax free cash from his SIPP in 2008; based on the information we have seen
no further withdrawals  were made until Atkins Blands offer in February 2016  after this
the SIPP was closed without any remaining balance. The net amounts Mr F has received
will need  to be taken  into account in calculating the redress  due to him. I think the fairest
way to do this is to deduct the tax-free  cash paid in 2008 from any additional tax-free cash  
due as calculated  below  and to deduct the remaining fund paid to Mr F in 2016 from the
funds available  to purchase a future income  as established below.
In the sections below, I have  directed Atkins Bland to add interest  at a rate of 8% per year to 
payments that he would have received but for the unsuitable advice from the date I have 
found he would likely  have received  the payment and up until the date of this decision. I note 
Atkins Blands  comments that the interest  rate is higher than Mr F could have achieved if he 
invested in line what I have found to be suitable. The 8% is to compensate Mr F for being  
deprived of these funds  over that time, not to replicate the investment growth  he could have 
achieved in that time. 
The retirement annuity  contracts (RAC)
To compensate Mr F for the unsuitable advice given  to him in relation to his RACs  Atkins
Bland will need  to:
Establish the likely value of the policies as at nearest available retirement  date to when 
Mr F actually withdrew benefits from his SIPP as a result of Atkins  Blands offer (given 
the type of policies  I think  it likely  that the date on which Mr F could take benefits without 
issue/penalty is specified, this is likely to be linked to his birthday but may be different 
for the different policies).
Establish the tax-free lump sums that would likely  have been payable  to Mr F as at the 
above established dates.
Calculate  what net income would have  been  paid to Mr F from the dates he would have 
taken benefits  to the date of this decision.
Establish the capital cost for buying annuities on the same terms as the ones Mr F 
would have  been entitled  to under  the policies based on current  annuity rates (as at the 
date of this decision)  assuming he took advantage of the highest  available income 
under the terms of the policies.
To establish the likely  fund value at retirement for the purposes of working  out the Tax-Free
Cash (TFC) and the income that Mr F would  have been entitled  to under the policies; Atkins
Bland should  first contact the providers  of the policies and ask them  to provide notional
values for the respective policies as at the relevant dates.
Ref: DRN390669918If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional valuations from the providers, then Atkins  
Bland should  instead arrive  at notional valuations by assuming half the monies  would have 
enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index and 
the other half would  have  enjoyed a return in line with the monthly average rate for the fixed  
rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month.  Those rates should be 
applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. That is a reasonable proxy for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved over the period in question:
oThe average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable return  without  risk to their capital.
oThe FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income  Total  Return Index)  is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
oI consider that a suitable risk profile  for Mr F was in between,  in the sense that he could  
afford to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr F into that position. It does not mean that Mr F 
would have  invested 50% of his monies  in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker  fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects  
the sort of return Mr F could have obtained  from investments  suited to his objectives,  
circumstances and attitude to risk.
Once Atkins Bland  has established  the likely values of the policies,  had they not been
switched, at the relevant retirement dates  (either by getting a notional  value  from the
providers or using the above benchmark), it should  work out how much TFC Mr F would
have been entitled to from the policies. It is my understanding that his entitlement  under
the policies was 25%. To establish if Mr F has suffered a loss in respect of TFC Atkins
Bland will need  to compare what Mr F would  have received under the RACs with the TFC
that he received  in 2008.
The comparison of the TFC available under  the policies will need  to be compared  to the
proportion of the TFC he actually received equal to the proportion of the value  of the
original transfer which  each of the respective policies represented. So, for example, if one
of the RACs represented 30% (of the total amount originally transferred into the SIPP),
then the full amount of TFC that would  have been available  under that policy (as per the
above calculation) will need to be compared  to 30% of the TFC Mr F actually received. If
the full TFC Mr F would  have received is more than the relevant proportion  of the TFC he
did receive, then Mr F has suffered a loss.
Atkins Bland  will need to pay interest,  at a rate of 8% simple  per year,  on any amount  that
Mr F has missed out on. Interest should be added from the date established above  that
Mr F would likely have taken benefits  from each of the respective  policies  until the date of
this decision.
Ref: DRN390669919It should be assumed  the residual funds would  have been used to purchase an income at
the most  advantageous rate available under the policies and on the terms that would have
allowed for this (for example this is often monthly  in arrears on a single life basis).  It was
suggested in the original  suitability report that the guarantees available under at least one
of the policies did not add sufficient value to justify  retaining the policies, I think these
guarantees provided security and likely increased in value as Mr F got older  
however, I have accounted  for the possibility that the benefits available under the policies  
were not competitive at the time I have found  Mr F would likely have taken benefits from
his pensions. If the benefits available  via the RACs were not competitive in comparison to
those available  on the open market,  I think it is reasonable to conclude that Mr F would
likely have opted to purchase an annuity  on the open market.  If this transpires to be the
case, Atkins Bland  should  use the notional values  established above and the methodology
below to establish the income likely available Mr F.
Having established  the level of income that would  have  been available to Mr F under the
policies, Atkins Bland will need to work out how much net income Mr F has missed out on
from the point at which he would have taken  benefits under the policies and up until the
date of this decision. I think  it is most likely that Mr F will be a basic  rate tax payer in
retirement so basic rate tax should be deducted from the gross amount payable.  Interest
should be added at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date each payment would have
been received  and up until the date of this decision.
Once Mr Fs past loss has been determined, Atkins Bland will need to find out the capital
cost to Mr F of purchasing annuities of the level established above and on the relevant
terms on the open market.
If Atkins Bland believes  Mr F would qualify for an enhanced annuity, then a quotation (for
the purpose of establishing the capital cost) may be sought on enhanced  terms. However,
the inconvenience caused to Mr F in obtaining  a current enhanced annuity  rate should be
kept to the absolute minimum. So, if a medical examination  is required to obtain enhanced
rates then there  should only be one examination (i.e. if obtaining a number of quotations
were to necessitate  a number of medical  examinations then Atkins Bland will have  to
choose the provider it thinks is likely to be best positioned to underwrite for an enhanced
rate in advance). 
If Atkins Bland opts to seek a quotation  for an enhanced annuity rate, then it will also be 
expected to meet any costs associated with Mr F undergoing any medical examination 
needed for underwriting.
Atkins Bland  will need to compare the sum of the capital cost established for purchasing an
annuity (as set out above)  in respect  of each of the policies to the share of the monies
withdrawn from the SIPP  which  is proportionate to the share of the original value  of the
SIPP that each  of the policies represented. The resultant sum is Mr Fs loss in respect of
future income from these  policies.
The policy without guarantees
To establish the likely  fund value at retirement for the purposes of working  out the Tax-Free
Cash (TFC) and income that Mr F would have been  entitled to under the policy;  Atkins
Bland should  first contact the provider  of the policy and ask it to provide a notional  value for
the policy as at the relevant date.
Ref: DRN390669920If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation from the provider,  then Atkins
Bland should  instead arrive  at a notional valuation by assuming half the monies would
have enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return
Index and the other half would have enjoyed a return in line with the monthly average rate
for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. That is a
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been  achieved over the period in
question, for the reasons  set out above.
Having established  the notional value of the policy from the provider or using the
benchmark Atkins Bland  will then need to work  out the level of annuity that Mr F  taking
into account his actual circumstances in 2016   would have been able to purchase on the
open market using the notional fund established  above less TFC (assuming he was likely
to have drawn maximum TFC). Given his position,  I think Mr F is likely to have opted for
the highest regular income  available to him  I think this is likely to have been  a single life
annuity paid monthly  in arrears. If Mr F was still a smoker at that time it is likely  that an
enhanced income would have been available to him in light of this.
Having established  the level of income that would  have  been available to Mr F under the
policy, Atkins Bland  will need to work  out how much net income Mr F has missed out on
from the point at which he would have taken  benefits under the policy  and up until the date
of this decision. As I have mentioned, I think it is most likely that Mr F will be a basic  rate
tax payer  in retirement so basic rate tax should be deducted  from the gross  amount
payable. Interest should be added at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date each
payment would have  been received and up until the date of this decision.
Once Mr Fs past loss has been determined, Atkins Bland will need to find out the capital
cost to Mr F of purchasing an annuity of the level established above  and on the relevant
terms on the open market.
As above, if Atkins Bland believes Mr F would qualify for an enhanced annuity then a
quotation (for the purpose of establishing the capital cost) may be sought  on enhanced 
terms. However, the inconvenience caused to Mr F in obtaining a current enhanced
annuity rate should be kept to the absolute minimum. So, if a medical  examination is
required to obtain  enhanced rates then there should only be one examination (i.e. if
obtaining a number of quotations were to necessitate a number of medical examinations
then Atkins Bland will have to choose the provider it thinks is likely to be best positioned to
underwrite for an enhanced rate in advance). 
If Atkins Bland opts to seek a quotation  for an enhanced annuity rate, then it will also be 
expected to meet any costs associated with Mr F undergoing any medical examination 
needed for underwriting.
Mr F withdrew TFC from his SIPP in 2008.  Using the notional value established as set out
above Atkins  Bland  should work  out how much TFC Mr F would have been entitled to
(using 25% of the notional value established) and compare this to the proportion of the
amount actually received which is equivalent  to the proportion of the amount transferred
into the SIPP which this policy  represented  in practice this should work out as any
amount not already used  for the TFC comparison under  the calculation  in respect of the
RAC policies  above.
Ref: DRN390669921If Mr F has received less TFC than he would have  done if this policy  had performed as
established above, then he has suffered a loss. Interest should be added  to any loss
established at a rate of 8% simple  per from the date TFC would have  been  paid and up
until the date of this decision.
How should  this compensation be paid?
The total amount  of the missed net income payments, plus the interest  on these amounts should 
be paid directly to Mr F. The 8% interest should  be paid net, and a tax certificate provided.
The total loss established in respect  of TFC under both sections plus interest (as set out
above) should  be paid to Mr F directly.
The remainder (the capital cost of purchasing annuities  equivalent  to those that would have
been available under the RAC policies and the other  policy  following  the steps set out
above); less the final amount paid from SIPP should  ideally be paid into a pension for Mr F,
if this is possible.  Any available  tax reliefs can be applied, so Atkins Bland need only pay
an amount that is sufficient to increase the transfer value of the pension  by the total
amount of the remainder.
If payment  cannot be made into a pension, or if doing so would give rise to any protection
or allowance  issues,  the money should instead be paid directly to Mr F. This should be
paid net of basic rate tax, as the full amount of TFC potentially available  to Mr F has
already been taken  into account.
Distress & inconvenience
Atkins Bland  should pay Mr F £750 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. Mr F has
been caused significant distress by the loss of his pension benefits. I think  that a payment
of £750 is fair to compensate him for that distress.
Level of the award
I do not know what amount will result from these calculations. It is unlikely it will be more
than the maximum amount of money  award  I can make.  But I have accounted for that
possibility below.
Determination and recommendation:
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to
pay compensation of up to £150,000,  plus any interest and/or costs that I consider
appropriate. If I consider  that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that
Atkins Bland  pay the balance.
Determination and award:
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated
as set out above. My final decision is that Atkins Bland  Limited should pay the amount
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress  and/or
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  on the balance as set out above.
Interest should  be added  to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time that
it takes Atkins Bland Limited to pay Mr F from the date it receives notification of his
acceptance of the decision.
Ref: DRN390669922Recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also
recommend that Atkins  Bland Limited pays Mr F the balance.
I further recommend  interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple
for any time that it takes Atkins Bland Limited  to pay Mr F from the date it receives
notification of his acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct  Atkins Bland  Limited  to compensate  Mr F as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN390669923MY PROVISIONAL  FINDINGS
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis  of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we can consider and should 
consider. So, I have also considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint to determine the merits of 
the complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what  I consider to be 
the main points, and my reasons  for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Jurisdiction and dismissal considerations
On 11 October 2018 an Ombudsman issued a provisional decision saying that, even though
Mr F signed the 18 February  2016 agreement, the Ombudsman Service  can consider his
complaint about  the advice Atkins Bland gave him in 2007.
Atkins Blands  representatives (for ease of reference I have referred to them  and the
respondent firm as Atkins Bland from here on in) responded as set out above  in detail. They
have summarised their position as follows:
1.The Ombudsman Service  has no power  to determine whether the 18 February 2016 
settlement is valid. For this reason alone, the complaint  should be rejected;
2.Beyond this, there is nothing whatsoever  to indicate that Mr F did not understand what 
he was agreeing to or that he was in any way pressured  or coerced into signing the 
agreement. Therefore,  there is no reason for concluding that Mr F should not be bound 
by the agreement;  and
3.If I decide that I have  the power  to look at this complaint,  I need  to set out in detail why I 
believe I have  this power, with reference to any relevant legislation  or statutory instruments.
I have carefully considered the points Atkins Bland raised and am satisfied both that I have got 
the power to consider the complaint  and that it is appropriate for me to do so. I have 
addressed the issues around the 18 February 2016  agreement as a preliminary issue  in this 
decision, because  I think it is fair to give Atkins  Bland the opportunity  to respond before I reach 
a final decision on this. I have also provisionally  decided the merits of Mr Fs complaint.
The DISP  rules in the FCA handbook define a complaint as an expression of dissatisfaction 
about the provision  of a financial service by a regulated firm which  caused  the consumer 
loss. Mr F has made a complaint about  Atkins Bland.
Ref: DRN390669924Chapter 2 of the DISP rules  say that the Ombudsman Service  can consider a complaint 
under what  is known as our compulsory jurisdiction if:
1.The complaint is about a regulated  firm;
2.The complaint is about a regulated  activity;
3.The complainant is a consumer and was a customer of the firm at the time;
4.The complaint is within the time limits set out in the rules; and
5.The complaint is within the Ombudsman  Services territorial jurisdiction.
Mr Fs complaint meets all of these tests. I am satisfied the complaint has been brought 
within the relevant  time limits for the reasons set out in the adjudicators  view of 
11 April 2017 and the decision issued by the previous ombudsman. So, I think that I can 
consider it unless there is anything else in the DISP rules that clearly says that I cannot.
Atkins Bland  has said that the introduction to the DISP rules  states  that Chapters 2, 3 and 4 
of the DISP rules  only relate to unresolved complaints and that any complaint Mr F may 
have had was resolved  because he signed  the 18 February 2016  agreement.  If that is right, 
then I would not have any power  to consider Mr Fs complaint about the 2007 advice.
However, I do not think that is right:
1.The introduction to the DISP rules is not a rule that limits  the Ombudsman Services 
powers. The rules about the Ombudsman  Services powers  are largely set out in 
Chapters 2 and 3 of the DISP rules;
2.Complaints are only resolved under the DISP  rules  if they are handled  and settled in 
line with the DISP rules.  DISP 1.5.2A  says that a complaint is resolved where the 
complainant has indicated acceptance of a response  from the respondent. That did not 
happen here,  because Mr F did not accept Atkins Blands response to his complaint 
about the 2007  advice;
3.Mr F had not complained at all about the 2007 advice when he signed the 18 February  
2016 agreement.  He only complained  about the 2007 advice later in 2016.  I do not think 
it is right to say that any complaint  Mr F may have had was resolved in advance  by him 
signing the agreement. I do not think you can resolve a complaint if you never received 
one in the first place  and did not address the complaints details  in line with DISP 1.6.7. I 
think Atkins Bland  are really saying  that Mr F had no right to complain in the first place.
There is nothing in the DISP rules  that clearly says Mr F is not allowed to complain to us, or 
that the Ombudsman Service  cannot  consider a complaint where a customer and business 
previously signed  an agreement like they did in this case. I think the real issue  is whether I 
should not consider Mr Fs complaint.
The DISP  rules say that I may dismiss a complaint without looking at its merits if I think  that 
dealing with that type of complaint would seriously  impair the effective operation of the 
Ombudsman Service. One of the examples in the DISP rules  is where  it would be more 
suitable for the complaint  to be dealt with by a court. Atkins  Bland has said:
The question of whether  or not a binding agreement was reached is a legal question  
and if the Claimant  genuinely wants to challenge this, he should do so via the Court. 
To be clear, the Ombudsman service is neither set up nor qualified to consider  this; it 
is a service set up purely to mediate complaints.  Proper consideration of this question  
would require witness evidence  and (at the very least) a hearing  in which that evidence  
could be tested, a process which FOS is not able to provide.
Ref: DRN390669925If you maintain that the FOS has jurisdiction to hear the complaint, please  set out 
under what  statutory power FOS is able determine  the validity of a signed  
settlement agreement.
I do not agree with Atkins Bland that the Ombudsman Service  is not set up or qualified  to 
consider the issue.  The DISP rules make clear that I must decide what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances in the case, and that as part of this I need  to consider the relevant 
law. I think that the 2016 agreement is part of the wider circumstances relevant to Mr Fs 
complaint about  the 2007 advice, and the DISP  rules  make clear that I am expected to 
consider questions of law.
I also do not agree that the Ombudsman  Service is not able to provide a hearing  where  
evidence can be tested.  Paragraph 3.5.5R of the DISP rules  makes clear I can direct a 
hearing where one of the parties  requests it if I consider that it is necessary  to deal with a 
complaint fairly. If either party asks for an oral hearing, I will consider it.
I have thought about whether there are any other reasons to think  that considering  the 
complaint would seriously impair  the effective operation of the Ombudsman Service.  I have 
reminded myself that the 18 February 2016 agreement  is a contract. Most of the time, if 
parties make a contract,  they should  be held to it, even if the contract  limits their rights to 
bring legal claims.  I think it would  be right to dismiss the complaint if I was satisfied  that there 
is no good reason  to think that the agreement should not stand.  But I do have  serious 
concerns about  the circumstances in which the 18 February 2016 agreement  was made. So, 
I have thought about what is fair and reasonable.
By early 2016 Mr F was in a very vulnerable financial position. He had lost his business  and 
his house. He was living in a mobile  home, he had limited income and was looking to withdraw 
funds from his pension.  It appears he had no other savings or money  towards his retirement 
(aside from his state pension entitlement),  and the money he had invested within the SIPP  
appears to have represented  everything  he had had towards  his retirement. He had lost 
around £50,000 because of how badly  the investments held within  in the SIPP  had performed. 
He was 69 and did not have an opportunity to significantly improve  his financial position.
There was only around £7,000 left of the money  he had originally invested, and this was tied 
up in an illiquid investment. On 3 February  2016 Atkins  Bland wrote  to him offering to buy 
out the remaining value of his holding and pay his outstanding fees (which  were significant). 
Mr F and Atkins Bland  had a detailed discussion by telephone on 10 February 2016. In that 
call, Mr F proposed a number of options  and  having listened to the call recordings  I think 
Atkins Blands  comments, in the circumstances, amounted to actively advising him that its 
offer was his best option to release  funds and mitigate his losses. It did this without 
explaining the terms of the offer, specifically that he would have to give up any right to bring  
a legal claim against Atkins Bland about  the SIPP. I think it is clear that Mr F put his trust and 
confidence in Atkins Bland and expected  it to look after his interests.
By this time, Atkins Bland had been  receiving updates from the SIPP  provider and had been 
aware for a number  of years of the dire state of the pension.  Atkins  Bland was also aware 
that Mr F had not received ongoing  updates  for a long time as Atkins Bland had not had up 
to date contact details for him. Atkins Bland ought  to have been particularly alert to the need 
for Mr F to be in a well-informed position  before proceeding with the agreement.
Ref: DRN390669926Taking into account his circumstances and what he had been told by Atkins  Bland, Mr F 
accepted that his only real option was to agree to Atkins Bland buying out his interest in the 
PFB Data Centre fund.  Having done  so, Mr F chased Atkins Bland on two separate  occasions  
after 10 February 2016. He made it clear that he needed the money urgently because he 
needed to get the money working as quickly  as possible. I think that by 18 February 2016 
Atkins Bland  was aware of his financial difficulties, since it knew of his limited  income  and his 
pressing need  to try to do something  with what remained of his pension.  He was very clear 
that he was under severe time pressure in relation to another investment.
There is no evidence that Mr F realised on 18 February 2016 that there might have been any 
problems with the advice Atkins Bland had given him previously. Atkins  Bland reinforced  this 
by the way it described the issues with the investments and where it was very critical of the 
SIPP provider. It is clear  that Mr Fs main  focus was in trying to rescue what  he could of his 
original investment. He had not made any kind of complaint about Atkins Bland. So, I do not 
think that this is the sort of case where Mr F obviously settled  any concerns he may have 
had about the advice  Atkins Bland had originally  given him. I think Atkins  Bland was trying to
nip any concerns  he may eventually  have had in the bud, so to speak.
The settlement  clause is very broad.  There is not an obvious link between that and the 
agreement to buy out Mr Fs holding in the PFB Data  Centre  Fund, and even less so in 
relation to the Mission Germany Fund. Even  so, Atkins  Bland thought it was appropriate to 
introduce the settlement clause. I am satisfied that it did so at the last minute  despite 
having been in contact  with Mr F on multiple occasions in writing  and on the phone prior to 
the signing of the settlement. The meeting note does not suggest that Atkins Bland even 
discussed with Mr F the fact that the agreement was in full and final settlement or the 
implications of this. The note simply highlighted that Mr F had signed a declaration  to this 
effect. Atkins Bland had not referred  to the issue in the 3 February  2016  offer letter, and 
there is no evidence  it discussed the declaration with Mr F during the phone calls it had with 
him before the 18 February 2016  meeting.
There is also nothing to suggest that Atkins Bland discussed with Mr F the implications of
him giving up any legal rights to claim against it or advised/referred him to get independent 
advice on the agreement.  Although he had had two weeks to consider and discuss  the 
agreement to buy out his holding, he had no time to consider  or get advice on waiving his 
rights to bring a legal claim. By the time of the meeting during which the declaration was 
signed, the evidence suggests  that Mr F felt he had no viable alternative and had accepted 
Atkins Blands  offer. I am not persuaded that Mr F fully understood what  he was agreeing to, 
given the way that the settlement clause was introduced  late and with no explanation.
I think that overall Atkins Bland would have been  aware there was a risk to it about its advice 
to Mr F to switch his existing pension  provision to a SIPP  and invest in unregulated 
investments. I think Atkins Bland tried to deal with that risk through  the 18 February 2016 
agreement. The settlement clause was an essential  part of that. I think  that Atkins Bland 
introduced the clause  in a way that was not transparent, and which  took advantage of Mr F.
I need to decide whether it is fair and reasonable to say that Mr F should not be bound  by 
the settlement  agreement. As part of that, I have to consider the relevant law. As part of that, 
I have to consider  whether a court might  think that there is proper  evidence  of undue  
influence. I have reminded  myself that the courts will not set aside a contract  purely on the 
basis that it favoured one party over the other  or was a bad bargain.
Ref: DRN390669927A court would be able to set this contract aside  on the basis  of undue influence  if it 
was satisfied that Mr F put his trust and confidence  in Atkins  Bland, and there was either (i)
actual undue influence  or (ii) presumed undue influence.
For actual undue influence, a court would need to be satisfied that Mr F put his trust and
confidence in Atkins Bland, that Atkins Bland exploited  that trust to get Mr F to sign an
agreement, and that in doing so Atkins Bland preferred its own interests over Mr Fs. I think  a
court would have  a proper basis to think there was actual undue influence.  Mr F put his trust
in Atkins  Bland to look after his interests.  Atkins Bland was aware  Mr F was financially
vulnerable. Atkins Bland persuaded Mr F that it was in his interests to accept  its offer.
Although Mr F had the opportunity  to go away and consider the offer, Atkins  Bland  included
the settlement  clause  at the last minute. The settlement  clause was very much in Atkins
Blands interests,  not Mr Fs. Atkins Bland was aware that Mr F felt that he needed the
money as soon as possible. I think that Atkins Bland exploited  Mr Fs trust to get him to sign
the agreement  without explaining the significance of that clause.
For presumed undue influence, a court would need to be satisfied that Mr F put his trust and
confidence in Atkins Bland, that Atkins Bland was in a position  to exert  its influence  over
Mr F, and that the 18 February 2016  agreement is one that calls for explanation i.e. it is not
immediately obvious  why Mr F would have made that agreement. I think  a court  would have
a proper basis to think there was presumed undue influence. Mr F trusted Atkins  Bland  to
look after his interests and took Atkins Blands advice about  the best way forward  for him.
Although the buyout offer appears to have been at a fair market rate, the settlement clause
changed the nature of the agreement.  That meant that Mr F accepted  around  £10,000
(including payment  of the SIPP fees), but that the cost of doing  so was to give up any right to
pursue Atkins Bland for the balance of his initial investment  of around £55,000. I think that
this was such a one-sided  agreement that it calls for an explanation.
So, in considering the relevant law, I think that if a court looked at this case there is a good
chance that it would agree that the agreement could  be set aside for undue influence.  I have
reminded myself that when the courts look at cases like this, they give the party alleged to
have used undue influence the opportunity to make  representations. Because this is a
provisional decision, Atkins Bland will be able to do that.
Although I think there are good  reasons to think a court would set the 18 February  2016
agreement aside, I recognise that it is difficult  to predict what  a court  might  do in an
individual case. And that what is fair and reasonable may go beyond what a court might do. I
also have to look at other  issues. I have  reminded  myself that Atkins  Bland was subject to
the general duties  under  the FCA. The FCA Principles mean that Atkins  Bland had a duty to
treat Mr F fairly in 2016. For all the reasons  I have discussed above, I am satisfied that
Atkins Bland  did not treat him fairly.
I think this goes beyond  Mr F freely making  a bad deal and then trying to back  out of it by 
complaining to the Ombudsman Service. Mr F was in a very difficult position, and Atkins  Bland  
knew this. Mr F had to give up any right to bring  a claim against Atkins Bland about his overall 
investment for a sum that was a fraction of what he had originally invested. By the time Atkins 
Bland introduced the words about a full and final settlement  which I think  it did in a way that 
was not fair  Mr F did not have  a proper opportunity to consider  what  the overall implications  
were or to take advice on this part of the agreement. I therefore think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to find that Mr F should  not be bound by the settlement agreement.
Having found  that Mr Fs complaint is one we can and should consider, I have gone  on to
consider the merits  of the complaint.
Ref: DRN390669928My provisional findings  on the merits  of a complaint
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant.
In 2007, Mr F was advised  to switch personal  pension plans with a total value of around £55,000 
to a SIPP and invest in Mission Germany and the PFB Data Centre Fund (£16,000  and £36,000 
respectively). At the time Mr F was already of pensionable  age. Mr F does not appear  to have 
had any other pension provision aside from whatever  state pension entitlement  he may have.
One of the pensions switched was a retirement  annuity contract (RAC),  so it would have 
provided a guaranteed minimum income  at retirement. This pension and those switched from 
a different provider were  all invested in with-profits. The switches  and subsequent investments 
represented a very significant increase in the level of risk Mr Fs pension provision was subject  
to. There is no indication  that Mr F was a very high-risk  investor or that he had the capacity for 
loss to afford  to employ such a strategy with his only personal  retirement  provision.
There does not appear  to be any dispute that Atkins  Bland  advised  Mr F to switch  his
pensions to a SIPP and invest in Mission Germany and PFB Data Centre. So, it is
responsible for the suitability of the advice in its entirety.
Atkins Bland  was required to follow the relevant  rules set out by the regulator.  All of this
needs to be considered through the lens, so to speak, of the overarching  principles  for
businesses  in particular, principles 1 (integrity),  2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6
(customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable care).
Amongst other things, under the rules  applicable at the time of the advice, to fulfil its duties
Atkins Bland  had to know its client, act in his best interests  and give suitable advice. Given
the information available, it is not clear that Atkins  Bland did enough to know its client  in this
instance. I think it knew his basic circumstances, but I am not persuaded that it did enough
to establish that he could  bear the risks involved or that he had sufficient knowledge and
experience to understand the risks involved.
Atkins Bland  considered  the suitability of the switches to the SIPP  and the intended
investments when giving advice  to Mr F. The purpose of Mr Fs pension  was to provide him
with an income in retirement  and around the time of the advice he was turning 60. So, he
had very little time before his normal retirement  age to recover  any losses  suffered and there
is no evidence that he had alternative  provision  in place.
Despite the limited information  available from the point of sale, I am satisfied that I have
sufficient information  to conclude that the advice for Mr F to switch  his personal pension
provision to a SIPP  to invest all of it in unregulated investments was clearly  unsuitable. In
saying this I acknowledge that it is likely Mr F was keen to make the investments he made
based on the information he was provided by Atkins Bland and his familiarity with the
property business   but, this does not make the advice suitable.
Ref: DRN390669929Based on the information available and the submissions  made,  I think suitable advice would
have been for Mr F to retain  his RAC  and switch  the other plans to a low-cost plan such  as a 
stakeholder and invest in cautious  to medium risk funds, as he was heavily invested  in with-
profits at the time of the advice.
It has not been suggested that Mr F was an insistent  client  or that he was otherwise likely to
act against suitable advice from his financial adviser  but, for the sake of completeness, I
have thought about this. Having done  so, I am satisfied that if Mr F had been advised as I
have found would have been suitable,  he would have followed this advice.
Due to the circumstances of the complaint, I have also had to think  about when Mr F would
have most  likely taken benefits  from his pensions had suitable advice been given and
implemented. Mr Fs financial circumstances worsened in the years after he switched  to a
SIPP and it is likely  that he needed  funds during this time but, other than withdrawing  tax-
free cash  in 2008, he does not appear to have attempted to access his pension income until
his contact with Atkins  Bland in 2015/2016. In light of this, I think the date he actually
withdrew the remaining value of his pension  subsequent to Atkins Blands offer  is a fair
approximation for the date he would most likely  have drawn benefits from his pension had
suitable advice  been given.
Ref: DRN3906699