K822xcomplaint
Mrs S has complained about how Fairmead  Insurance Limited (who previously traded as 
Legal & General Insurance Limited,  who I will refer to as L&G) have settled a claim she 
made for damage to her property and contents following an arson attack.
background 
On 23 July 2018, Mrs S made a claim for damage to her home and contents following a fire, 
caused by an arson  attack. L&G initially offered her £6,500 to settle the claim, which  she 
accepted. L&G then reviewed the claim and reduced  the offer to £4,189, on the basis  that 
the plants werent  covered by the policy, because they werent contained in pots. 
Mrs S complained to L&G about  the way theyd settled her claim, and they offered her £50 
compensation for the delays shed  suffered, and the upset caused  by their decision to 
reduce the settlement amount.
Our investigator issued  her view in May 2019  upholding the complaint. She explained that 
the cover  in the policy for contents in the open , didnt require the plants to be in pots. She 
recommended that L&G pay the £2500 initially offered, together with £100 compensation for 
the way Mrs Ss claim had been handled.
The complaint handler at L&G responded to the view by saying hed briefly  reviewed the 
case again and disagreed  with the assessment on the basis that contents only included  
plants, trees,  flowers  and shrubs in moveable pots or containers. 
Our investigator again explained that the claim would fall under the contents in the open 
provision, not the contents  provision. And the contents in the open definition  and 
provision didnt refer to plants being  in pots. 
Mrs S accepted the view, however L&G did not, so the matter has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. While I can see that the definition  of contents refers to 
plants, trees,  flowers  or shrubs  in moveable containers, that same qualification hasnt been 
included in the definition of contents  in the open.  The policy says that contents in the 
open include  garden  plants intended to be kept permanently or temporarily outside the 
home. So, in plain English, this could include plants permanently placed in the ground.  
Paragraph 10 of Section 2 of the policy terms also says plants are covered up to a maximum 
of £2,500. If L&G intended  to only provide  cover  for plants in moveable containers, under 
this section of the policy,  then they ought to have specified that, as they did in the definition 
of contents .
Im of the view that the damage caused to Mrs Ss plants, that were in the garden,  not just in 
pots, should be covered by the policy. I note that the quotation  from the contractor D, who 
Ref: DRN35349372carried out other works to the garden, itemised  plants in excess of £3,000.  So, L&G should  
pay Mrs S £2,500, the maximum  due for contents in the open, under the terms of her policy.  
In her view on this complaint, our investigator  omitted to include an award of 8% simple  per 
annum, on the £2,500. So, Ive contacted L&G to let them  know  that I will be awarding that 
interest to Mrs S and have given them an opportunity to comment.  L&G have said they felt 
my decision  to award interest  was unfair, given the length of time theyve been waiting for a 
decision. However, Ive explained to L&G, that as Im upholding this complaint, its Mrs Ss 
position that I need to consider, taking into account  the impact on her of L&Gs  incorrect  
assessment of her claim, and their decision to hold to that view, in light of our investigators 
opinion. L&G will also be aware from other decisions theyve received from this service, and 
our published  guidance on compensation, that where a customer has been  deprived of 
money, we can tell a respondent  firm to pay interest  on top of the money award,  which is 
what I am doing in this decision. 
Im also of the view that Mrs S should  be compensated £100 for the delays, upset and 
inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the incorrect  decision L&G made on her claim 
and the way theyve handled  her claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the upset and inconvenience  it has caused her, 
less any amount it has already paid in this respect; and
Pay Mrs S £2,500 for replacement plants, plus interest *, from the date the claim was 
accepted until settlement  is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs S, 
it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN3534937