K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) continue to send him notification  his 
statements are available  to view online when hes asked a number of times for paper 
statements. 
background
Mr H brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response  hed received from 
HSBC in respect of his concerns. Hes also unhappy  with the way in which  his complaints 
been dealt with.
HSBC sent Mr H a final response letter (FRL) in which they told Mr H that by downloading 
the HSBC Mobile  Banking App on 8 October  2018  he was advised  - on accepting the terms 
and conditions - his statements would switch from paper to online.  HSBC expressed regret 
that Mr H was unhappy and confirmed his statement preference had been switched back  to 
paper. They  said theyd tried to investigate why Mr H had these same issues  with statements 
over the last two years  but due to the time that had elapsed they were unable  to advise Mr H 
what the issue was.
The letter also said HSBC were paying Mr H £30 compensation  for the inconvenience this 
had caused. Its later been  established  this is inaccurate and HSBC in fact paid Mr H £50 
compensation.
Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt  with Mr Hs complaint fairly and reasonably so 
didnt uphold  it.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigation  undertaken and the findings.  He thought this was 
due to the investigator failing to address a number of points which Ill summarise here.
His original call to HSBC requesting a complaint  to be logged was handled poorly, he 
had to request  several times for a complaint to be logged  and was placed  on hold for 
an excessive amount of time.
The FRL from HSBC was ambiguous - the monetary  value  of compensation was 
incorrect.
When his concerns were logged  with HSBC, it would have been  best practice to 
record them to establish the root cause of Mr Hs complaint to prevent re-occurrence.
Mr H wanted confirmation of what is suppressing the paper statements  and whether 
this was the HSBC  Mobile Banking App as, if required, hed arrange for the App to be 
deleted and the statements back-dated.
Mr H was frustrated with the communication from the bank. He thought if the App 
was the root cause for the statements going from paperless to electronic this 
shouldve been explained to him previously.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31255592I appreciate Mr H feels our investigator  hasnt  properly addressed all aspects of his 
complaint and its clear  he has strong feelings  about  this complaint. Hes provided detailed  
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised, but to set out 
my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them. Ive looked at everything afresh before 
reaching an independent view. But Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold. Ill explain why.
The records  from HSBC satisfy me that from the point Mr H downloaded the HSBC Mobile 
Banking App and accepted the terms on 8 October  2018 he formally opted out of paper 
statements. And by accepting the terms Mr H ought to reasonably have been aware that 
paper statements had stopped. I think this has been  explained in the FRL and dealt with by 
the investigator.
Although HSBCs records of telephone  contact  are only retained for 12 months  and theres 
no record of other contact from Mr H during that period   that doesnt mean he didnt contact 
them as hes said. I know Mr H would like answers and an explanation as to why his 
requests - before 8 October 2018  - for paper rather than online statements havent been 
actioned. Im sure it was confusing, frustrating  and inconvenient for him at the time. But Im 
afraid that we cant always find out exactly what has happened in situations  like this. I think  
HSBC have tried to put things right by  eventually  changing its records  and recording his 
preference for paper  statements,  saying sorry and offering compensation.
I know Mr H doesnt think the £50 compensation paid is adequate  here.  But I disagree. Its 
the sort of award Id have  made had it not been offered in these circumstances. I can 
understand Mr H is frustrated by HSBC  refusing  his request for a call back as its not their 
policy. But notwithstanding that I think HSBC explained the position in the FRL and  other 
than confusingly referring to compensation of £30 when £50 was paid  gave a reasonable 
response to his concerns about  the statements. And, as the investigator has already 
explained, HSBC  will be able to provide  Mr H with copies of any historical  statements if he 
contacts their Premier  Banking Department with the account details and the dates he 
requires. Overall I think thats a fair and reasonable response to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3125559