K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1990. Mr and Mrs T say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, I know Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed  with this 
but Ill explain why.
The evidence suggests Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have  to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out.
I say this because  Santander has provided  the paperwork  completed  at the time. On this I 
can see that the MPPI was presented as an optional choice and Mr and Mrs T ticked to 
select it. Also a secondary form for the MPPI was completed and signed. I can see on this 
form that Mr and Mrs T made choices about  the MPPI and what they wanted it to cover. So 
based on the evidence from the time I think Mr and Mrs T were  given a choice and chose to 
take out the MPPI.
Mr and Mrs T say that the mortgage adviser told them they had to have the MPPI  to get the 
mortgage. Obviously  I wasnt  present at the time and as this was so long ago, I cant  place 
too much  weight on recollections  from such a long time ago. I accept  that its possible that 
the adviser told Mr and Mrs T this, despite  what it said on the paperwork. But the evidence  
doesnt support  what Mr and Mrs T has told us and so thats why Im not upholding the 
complaint on this point.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the MPPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs T about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said but for the reasons  explained  I dont 
think the MPPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN35529192Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3552919