K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds decision to decline his claim under 
his contents insurance  policy after he suffered a theft at his home.
background
Mr P made a claim under  his policy following a burglary at his home. There  were no signs  of 
forced entry and Mr P told Ageas he didnt know how the thieves had entered his property. 
Ageas considered it was likely the thieves had entered via an open first-floor  bedroom 
window at the rear of the property which was accessible  via the flat roof of an extension. The 
policy had an endorsement  stating that all accessible  windows  should  remain locked when 
the property was empty or when the inhabitants had retired for the night. It therefore  declined 
the claim.
Mr P complained to Ageas. He provided  a neighbours CCTV footage  which he believed  
showed the thieves had accessed the property  through the front door. He disputed  that the 
window which had been left open was readily  accessible.
Ageas continued  to decline  the claim. It said the video evidence  only showed  the thieves at 
the end of Mr Ps driveway. It didnt show how they entered  the property. It still believed  the 
most likely form of entry had been  through the rear bedroom window and it considered this 
to be accessible.  But even if the entry was gained elsewhere, it considered  that the claim 
would still not be payable because it would mean that the point of entry had not been  
secured with a key operated lock.
Mr P was unhappy at Ageas decision.  He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that Ageas had acted fairly.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that he and his family had been  very 
careful to lock all windows and doors. The only exception  had been  the transom  window in 
the bedroom where his two adult sons were  sleeping.  However,  he said that this wasnt 
accessible without a ladder; that a grown man wouldnt  be able to fit through this window, let 
alone do so without waking his sons; and that the forensic evidence  didnt  suggest  that this 
had been the point  of entry.  He considered it more likely that the thieves had entered his 
property though the locked front door,  either using duplicate keys or through using a method 
which showed no sign of forced entry. He furthermore said that his insurance  policy  with 
Ageas originally didnt  require  the windows in occupied bedrooms to be locked at night  and 
that Ageas didnt  properly inform him when it introduced the more  stringent requirement. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr Ps policy  schedule  contains the following endorsement, under the heading Mandatory 
locks:
Ref: DRN39056222You agree  that your home will have the following security protections  installed within  30 
days of the inception of the policy. Under  Section 2 of the policy, you will not be covered for 
loss or damage involving  theft, attempted theft or malicious damage if any or all of the 
protections are not fitted, or if they are not maintained in full working  order  and if they were  
not being used at the time of the loss

5) all accessible  windows  and skylights (accessible from the ground  or from adjoining roofs  
and porches or via downpipes) must  be fitted  with locks and bolts  defined in D or G below.

8) when  your household retires for the night all external doors and windows  on the ground 
floor and those accessible  from adjoining structures,  must be secured using the security 
devices defined below.
The neighbours CCTV footage shows that the thieves attempted entry into neighbouring  
houses through the front door but it doesnt  show them entering Mr Ps property. However,  
having somehow  gained  entry, they took the keys for a car parked on the drive which they 
stole. They then returned a short time later and re-entered the property where  they stole 
further items  and threatened a member of Mr Ps family before fleeing through the front door.
It is not known how the thieves  initially gained  entry  to Mr Ps house.  The police report 
confirms there was no sign of forced entry. Mr P says that when he and his family retired to 
bed, all the doors and windows  were  locked, except for the transom window in the bedroom 
where his two adult  sons were sleeping. After the theft, it was found that the casement  
window to the sons bedroom was open,  as was a window to the landing. The front door was 
also unlocked though the thieves may have found  the keys to this, as well as to the windows, 
after initially  gaining entry. The front door and windows  therefore may have been opened 
internally to provide  possible  escape  routes  once  the thieves had got inside the property.
Ageas concluded  that the most probable method of entry had been through  the transom 
window which, it is not in dispute, had been left open. While I note Mr Ps explanation  about 
the height of the flat roof extension, I consider this to be an accessible  window.  I therefore  
consider that, by leaving this open, Mr P didnt comply with the terms of the endorsement on 
his policy. I therefore  consider  that, unless Mr P can show this failure to comply with the 
endorsement made no difference to the event which occurred, it is reasonable for Ageas to 
decline the claim.
Mr P has argued that it was very unlikely  the thieves made use of this open  window  to 
access the property.  He points to the difficulty which this would have entailed and the lack of 
forensic evidence  to support that this is how the thieves entered. He considers it far more 
likely that the thieves entered the property though the ground floor, either  using duplicate  
door keys or through some other method  which left no evidence  of forced entry.  He thinks it 
likely that the thieves didnt go upstairs  until they returned to the property, and that they then 
opened the casement window and landing window  from the inside. 
I understand Mr Ps doubt as to whether  the open transom  window provided the means of 
entry. However, it seems unlikely that the thieves would have entered  using duplicate door 
keys because if this were the case they would presumably have targeted his property 
immediately rather than first attempt to break in to other houses. And he has provided  no 
credible explanation of how the thieves may have entered through  a locked door or window 
without leaving signs of forced entry. This means the only plausible  alternative to the theory 
that the open transom window enabled entry is that a door or another accessible window 
Ref: DRN39056223was left unlocked  in contravention of the endorsement. Either way, I think  it is likely that the 
loss occurred as a result of Mr P not complying with the endorsement.
In view of this, and despite  my deep  sympathy for Mr P who has unquestionably been the 
victim of a distressing  crime,  I consider it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim on 
the grounds that Mr P hadnt complied  with the terms of the endorsement.
Mr P has also objected  that his policy originally didnt require him to lock the windows in 
rooms which  were  occupied at night and that Ageas didnt adequately  make him aware when 
this was changed. Mr P hasnt previously raised this point with Ageas and so I havent 
considered it in this complaint. If Mr P thinks that Ageas failed  to draw his attention to an 
important change in his cover, and that this ultimately led to his claim being declined, he 
needs to first raise  this as a complaint with Ageas. If he is dissatisfied with its response,  he 
may then refer the complaint to us.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3905622