K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited is responsible  for poor service  in 
connection with her boiler emergency insurance.
background
With effect from 11 November 2017  Mrs M had a home insurance policy. The policy covered 
home buildings and home contents. Mrs M didnt have the optional home emergency cover 
but she did have  the optional boiler  emergency  cover. 
Admiral was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to Admiral I 
include other companies and individuals insofar as I hold Admiral  responsible  for their 
actions.
On Thursday 11 October 2018,  Mrs Ms central heating boiler stopped working.  On 
Wednesday 17 October  2018 she called Admiral  for help. It wouldnt send an engineer 
because she hadnt contacted it within 48 hours. So she complained  about that. 
In a final response letter dated  19 October  2018,  Admiral repeated that it declined  the claim 
because Mrs M hadnt contacted it within  48 hours. Mrs M brought  the complaint to us.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think  Admiral 
had acted fairly. He thought that Admiral had very strictly applied the terms of the policy and 
hadnt taken into consideration  the situation  as a whole. He recommended  that Admiral 
should:
1.pay for an engineer  to visit and try to repair  the boiler in line with the insurance cover  
Mrs M had; and
2.pay Mrs M £500.00 in recognition of the trouble and upset experienced by not 
providing cover which she had on the policy  and the impact it had on her.
After the investigators  opinion, Mrs M told us the following:
Admiral  insurance reviewed policy booklet and believed the case to be 
unfair.
£286 was given as compensation for [declining] the case in the first place on 
the 29/09/2019
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M 
and to Admiral on 30 January 2020. I summarise my findings:
There was no technical evidence to show what was wrong with the boiler,  whether it 
was repairable  and if so at what cost. So I couldnt say whether  or to what extent  
Admiral shouldve covered the repair. 
Ref: DRN37113302Therefore I couldnt say that Admiral was responsible for leaving Mrs M without 
heating and hot water when  it shouldve fixed her boiler.
But I was minded to find Admiral responsible  for leaving Mrs M not knowing what  was 
wrong with the boiler. And I didnt doubt  that - by taking a stance  Id found unfair - 
Admiral caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience  at having her claim dismissed  out 
of hand.
Subject to any further information from Mrs M or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited  to pay Mrs M (insofar as it hadnt  already  paid her) £300.00  for distress 
and inconvenience.
Mrs M accepted the provisional decision.  She says, in summary, that the payment (of 
£286.00) was compensation but she was not happy  with the amount. Someone has looked 
at the boiler and it is not repairable. She cannot get credit for a new boiler so she is 
borrowing money from her mother to get a new one.
Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral hasnt given  us much detail  about its sales process. But Ive seen a proposal  form 
dated 18 October 2017. And I note that it refers to the Guide to your Admiral Gold Home 
Insurance cover at www.admiral.com.  I will come back to that (the Guide).
I accept that Admiral sent Mrs M a policy schedule. It was also dated  18 October 2017 but it 
covered the year from 11 November 2017. It included the following:
Home Emergency  Cover: Not Included
  Boiler Emergency  Cover: Included
If any of the covers listed above  are referenced as 'Included' or 'Policy Upgrade'          
please visit www.admiral.com to access the relevant terms and conditions.
Admiral has sent us the Guide. It comprises 119 pages of policy  terms. It is actually four 
guides to (respectively)  home buildings and contents, boiler  emergency,  home  emergency  
and legal expenses. But the Guide has a single index.
Admiral has relied on the following term:
2. Claims  procedure
If you or your family are involved in any type of claim or loss, you must tell us about 
the incident within 48 hours  of discovery.
But thats on page 52 of a 119- page  document  available on Admirals website. So Im not 
satisfied that Admiral did enough  to draw it to the attention of Mrs M when she bought the 
policy. Thats one reason why I wont find it fair for Admiral to decline  a claim on the ground 
that it wasnt notified within 48 hours  of discovery.
Ref: DRN37113303In any event, page 52 is in the first part of the Guide - before the guide to the boiler 
emergency cover. The guide  to the boiler  emergency cover includes (from page 67) 
General exclusions and conditions  of your Boiler Emergency cover. Those exclusions and 
conditions dont mention a 48-hour rule.
Rather the guide to the boiler emergency cover  includes the following:
How to make a Boiler Emergency claim
Please call us as soon  as you are aware of the emergency.
The guide  to the boiler emergency cover  goes on to say the following:
There  are conditions and exclusions, listed  previously, which  limit the type and value  
of emergency  repairs you can claim for. Please read them carefully  to ensure this 
cover meets your needs. We do not wish you to discover after an emergency  has 
occurred that it is not covered.
Ive added the underlining. The underlined words are about limits to emergency repairs. 
And the first part of the Guide is noting to do with emergency repairs. So the underlined 
words are not a reference back to the 48-hour rule on page 52 in the first part of the Guide. 
The underlined words are a reference to the General exclusions and conditions of your 
Boiler Emergency cover (which has no 48-hour  rule). 
Thats another reason why I wont find it fair for Admiral to decline a claim on the ground that 
it wasnt notified within 48 hours of discovery.
I note that the boiler emergency  cover  was limited to £500.00 per claim and two claims per 
year. The terms provided that Admiral might  agree  to a reimbursement  basis  so that Mrs M 
might pay an engineer and claim reimbursement.
The terms excluded repair due to scale  or sludge.  The terms also excluded repair where  
Admiral was unable  to repair the boiler.
I accept Mrs Ms statement that her husband was working away from home when  the boiler 
broke down  on 11 October  2018.The 48-hour period  wouldve expired on 13 October 2018 
(a Saturday).
Ive seen a renewal proposal  form and a renewal schedule. Each of them is dated 16 
October 2018 but to cover  the year from 11 November 2018. I find it likely that Admiral  sent 
Mrs M those  documents on 16 October  2018.
I accept that she didnt remember the boiler emergency cover  until her husband got home on 
about 17 October 2018. 
I dont doubt that the house had started  to get cold. But I dont  accept that the short  delay 
had any prejudicial  effect on Admiral.   Thats  another reason why I wont  find it fair for 
Admiral to decline a claim on the ground  that it wasnt notified within 48 hours of discovery.
On 17 October 2018 Mrs M contacted Admiral  to ask for help with her boiler.  So she was 
making a claim. For the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont find it fair for Admiral to decline  her 
Ref: DRN37113304claim on the ground that it wasnt notified within 48 hours of discovery. But that was the 
stance Admiral took and reiterated in its final response on 19 October 2018.
Ive seen a letter dated 29 October  2018 by which Admiral said it wouldnt be renewing the 
policy with effect  from 11 November 2018.  Admiral  hasnt  given  any reason for that. But it 
was a yearly policy so I cant say Admiral  had to renew it.
When our investigator sent his opinion in February  2019, he said Mrs Ms boiler still hadnt 
been inspected  and still wasnt working  so she had no heating  or hot water.
Mrs M mentioned illness and unemployment. She accepted the investigators  opinion.
Admiral maintained its decision to decline her claim on the ground that it wasnt notified  
within 48 hours of discovery.
In a follow-up opinion in March 2019 our investigator  said Mrs M was heating water  in a 
kettle or using her cooker  and she has a wood burner in her living  room  where  shed slept on 
very cold nights.
On 21 March 2019 one person on behalf  of Admiral suggested that the complaint-handler 
give Mrs M a courtesy call and confirm if the emergency had been  alleviated or not. But 
theres no evidence  such a call happened. 
Admiral maintained its decision to decline her claim on the ground that it wasnt notified  
within 48 hours of discovery. So the complaint has been in our queue for this decision. 
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable to try to put Mrs M in the position she wouldve 
been in if Admiral had sent an engineer in October 2018.
Winter has come round again.  There is no technical  evidence to show what was wrong with 
the boiler. But Mrs M says the boiler  is not repairable. So I cant say that Admiral shouldve 
covered the repair.  
Therefore I cant say that Admiral is responsible for leaving Mrs M without heating  and hot 
water when it shouldve  fixed her boiler.
But I find Admiral responsible for leaving Mrs M not knowing what  was wrong with the boiler. 
And I dont  doubt  that - by taking a stance Ive found  unfair - Admiral caused  Mrs M distress 
and inconvenience  at having her claim dismissed out of hand.
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mrs M £300.00 for distress  and 
inconvenience. I have  no reason to doubt  that Admiral has already paid Mrs M £286.00 as 
compensation. So I will direct it to pay her a further £14.00.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited to pay Mrs M (in addition  to its payment of 
£286.00 a further £14.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Ref: DRN37113305Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3711330