K821x#15complaint
Mr V says American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited  (AmEx) mis-sold him a 
credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy in 2009.
background
Mr Vs credit  card account started  in 2001. In 2009  AmEx called to sell him PPI to protect his 
card repayments if he was unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment.  
One of our adjudicators considered that the PPI had been  mis-sold because AmEx had put 
Mr V under pressure to buy the policy.
AmEx didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint was passed to me review 
afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Vs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold in a cold call  a recording of which Ive listened  to carefully  to Mr V who 
had already held his credit card for several years  by that time. Theres nothing to suggest 
that, before the call, Mr V was remotely interested in adding  PPI to his account. On the 
contrary, at one stage  during the call he made it clear PPI generally wasnt a product hed 
ever been  interested in buying.
After being provided  a lot of information, but in very little detail, over the course of the first 
seven or so minutes of the call, the adviser asked Mr V if he was interested  in taking out PPI. 
Mr V clearly  stated that he wasnt. After  the adviser  dealt with the objection, Mr V asked if he 
could instead  be sent the PPI details without being  enrolled. The adviser stressed that it was 
quicker to take the PPI out over the phone and for Mr V to check  the policy  details for himself  
in his own time afterwards. Mr V again  asked if he could be sent the relevant information 
before being enrolled, explaining he was concerned hed then forget  to cancel the PPI at a 
later date if he changed his mind.
The adviser again stressed the benefits of taking out the PPI there and then, at which point 
Mr V said Oh go on then
Having listened  to the call in its entirety,  its clear to me that Mr V didnt particularly want  the 
PPI and I believe undue pressure was applied to him by the adviser. As such, I dont think  
Mr V genuinely agreed to take the PPI  rather he did so because  of the advisers insistence.
Taking everything into account,  I believe AmEx  mis-sold the PPI to Mr V and should put 
things right for him.
Ref: DRN32361212putting things right
AmEx should put Mr V in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.AmEx  should find out how much Mr V would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
AmEx should then refund  the difference between what  Mr V owes  and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr V made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, AmEx  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when AmEx works  out what Mr V would have owed each month without PPI  Mr V 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, AmEx should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr V paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr V 
would have owed  AmEx something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year from then on.
C.AmEx  should tell Mr V what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AmEx to take off tax from this interest. AmEx must give 
Mr V a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require American  Express 
Insurance Services Europe Limited to put things right for Mr V as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3236121