K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about an application he made  to NRAM Limited to port his mortgage  to a 
new property.
background
Mr W has an interest only mortgage with NRAM. He decided to move  to a new property. His 
plan was to rent out his existing property (which Ill call property  1) while  building a new 
house in the garden.  He would move to a different property (property 2)  porting his 
mortgage to this property  and, eventually, the sale of the newly-built property (property  3) 
would be the repayment strategy.
Mr W applied  for a let to buy mortgage  with a bank Ill call A. A gave him a decision in 
principle for a mortgage of £210,000. 
Mr W then contacted NRAM. He said his current property was worth between  £250,000 and 
£280,000 and his existing  mortgage was around £200,000. He wanted to transfer the 
mortgage across to property 2.
He said property 2 would  cost around  £208,000.  He said he wanted to port the same loan to 
value as he had on property to 1 to property 2  around 70  80%, depending on the exact 
value of property  1, which would mean his mortgage  would reduce to around £150,000. He 
said the mortgage from A would be used to fund the remainder of the purchase price of 
property 2, as well as the costs  of building property 3.
NRAM explained that wasnt possible.  It said that if he ported his mortgage, he would have 
to pay off the loan on property  1 and take out a new one on property 2. He wouldnt have 
enough left of As mortgage to buy property  2, given that NRAM would only allow him to port 
£150,000. So his plan wasnt feasible.
Mr W complained.  He said that NRAMs refusal to allow him to port meant that he had to pull 
out of the purchase of property 2 and the mortgage  with A. That meant  he had lost the 
income he would have received from renting out property 1, as well as the profit  from 
property 3. He didnt think NRAM had treated him fairly. And he said that by treating porting 
as a new mortgage on property 2, NRAM would  be in breach of its regulatory permissions. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr W asked for an 
ombudsman to look at it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully  to the calls with NRAM, and the information he has sent us. Having 
done so I can see how strongly Mr W feels about his complaint. But Im afraid  I cant uphold 
it  not least because it seems to me that hes misunderstood how porting  works.
A mortgage is secured on a particular property  by way of a legal charge (strictly  speaking,  
the mortgage is the charge, not the debt).
Ref: DRN32750102Porting isnt the movement of the mortgage   either  the legal charge, or the debt  from one 
property to another. Porting is the repayment  of one mortgage on one property, and its 
replacement by another on the same terms and conditions on a second property.
That usually happens when the first property is sold at the same  time as the second is 
bought. But its possible to port without selling the first property, as was Mr Ws plan here.
Either way, though, the mortgage on the first property needs  to be repaid so that it can be 
replaced with a mortgage on the second property.
In this case, Mr Ws mortgage balance would reduce.  Thats because NRAM would only let 
him port the same loan to value (and, as property 2 was a new build,  it was also subject to 
NRAMs cap of 75% on new builds).  As property 2 was worth less than property 1, the 
balance would have  to be less to maintain the same loan to value.
To port, therefore, Mr W would need  to replace  a loan of £200,000  on a property worth  up to 
£280,000 with a loan of no more than £156,000 on a property worth £208,000.
But he would also have to buy property 2  and need to find £208,000 to do that. 
He said he would do that using some of the £210,000 that A would lend him. But that 
wouldnt be possible.
He would need to repay  the £200,000 mortgage on property 1 using  the funds from A, 
leaving him with £10,000.  NRAM would then give him back  £156,000  of that sum, meaning 
he would  have £166,000 to buy property  2  leaving him at least  £42,000 short  (possibly 
more, depending on the actual value  of property 1).
Its clear from the first call with NRAMs adviser that Mr W hadnt understood that. He 
thought his mortgage would be transferred  over to property 2, then reduced down using 
some of the money  from A. But thats  not right, and isnt how porting works. 
As he was keeping the mortgage balance on property 1 much the same (albeit with a 
different lender), he needed  £208,000 to buy property 2  and also £50,000 to reduce  his 
mortgage to an acceptable loan to value. The £210,000 he was borrowing from A wasnt  
enough to do that.
I dont think NRAM refused his application  outright on the first call. It explained how the 
process worked, and said that his plan didnt  add up. But it said it would consider an 
application if Mr W could show where he would be able to get the missing £50,000 from. On 
the next calls,  Mr W explained that he had decided to pull out of the transactions. 
I think NRAM was willing to allow Mr W to port. But it identified the plan Mr W put to it 
wouldnt work and asked him to explain where  he would be able to find the extra  money he 
needed. Instead, Mr W decided not to go ahead. I dont therefore think  Mr W was treated 
unfairly in his application.
Following the application,  Mr W made  various complaints about the process he was put 
through. I think NRAM was clear  that  even  if an application had to be made  on paper  he 
would always need to speak to an adviser.  Execution only porting  is permitted  under  the 
mortgage rules, but its not compulsory, so its reasonable for NRAM  to want  to give advice. 
Ref: DRN32750103And it benefitted Mr W in this case because it enabled NRAM to pick up the problem with his 
plan before he had committed himself  too far.
Mr W also said that the way NRAM had chosen  to structure its porting process put it in 
breach of its regulatory  permissions. Compliance with regulatory  permissions  is a matter for 
the regulator, not for me. But I note that NRAM does have permission to enter into new 
regulated mortgage  contracts for existing customers, which seems to me to cover this 
situation. I dont  agree with Mr Ws interpretation  of the wording.
Overall, therefore, I dont think NRAM did anything wrong in how it handled Mr Ws 
application to port his mortgage,  and so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3275010