K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Retail Money  Market Ltd (trading  as RateSetter) did not carry out 
adequate affordability checks before lending to him and provided him with money  he couldnt 
afford to repay. He also complains that a large  arrangement fee was added to the loan.
background
Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with RateSetter in 2015. He says that had 
adequate checks  been carried out this loan would not have been provided. At the time of the 
loan he had other debts outstanding and says he was at the limit on his credit cards  and 
overdraft. He also complains that a large  arrangement fee was added  to his loan.
RateSetter says that in March 2015,  Mr P applied for a £12,000 loan repayable  over 48 
months. It says that when  assessing an application it considers several factors including 
credit profile, credit history and affordability. It says that Mr Ps credit information  showed 
that he had not missed  any repayments or defaulted in the previous six months and that he 
hadnt any judgements against  him. It says all minimum lending  requirements were met.
RateSetter says that the loan interest  rate is calculated  including the loan arrangement  fee. It 
says Mr P contacted it before accepting the loan to ask if the fee needed to be repaid if the 
loan was repaid  early  and it was confirmed that the fee was payable  if the loan was repaid 
after the 14 day cooling off period.
Our adjudicator did not think that sufficient  affordability checks were carried  out before  
RateSetter lent to Mr P. He noted  that Mr P declared  his income  and that his credit  file was 
checked but said that he had not seen any evidence  that Mr Ps outgoings were assessed. 
He said that given the size of the loan he thought  more should have been  done to ensure it 
was affordable for Mr P. Because of this he recommended the interest and charges be 
refunded along  with 8% interest.
RateSetter did not accept our adjudicators  view.  It said that Mr P declared his income as 
£1,800 and said that the loan was to be used to consolidate his credit cards. It said that Mr P 
then didnt use to the loan for the purpose  he said he would. It said it had adequately 
assessed Mr Ps application.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr P entered into a loan agreement with RateSetter in March  2015. The loan 
agreement clearly  set out the loan fee, interest rate and total amount payable  so I 
thought that Mr P was provided with the information he needed  to make an informed 
decision;
before  the loan was provided  information  about Mr Ps income  was gathered  and it 
was reasonable  that RateSetter  relied on this;
information about Mr Ps other debts was gathered and details of three credit card 
balances, a loan,  overdraft and another debt were recorded. The total debt amount 
was similar  to that shown on Mr Ps credit check;
Ref: DRN37985122Mr Ps application said the loan was for debt consolidation and the loan amount 
matched the total amount declared on Mr Ps credit  cards. I found it reasonable to 
accept RateSetter  believed Mr Ps intention was to use the loan to repay his credit 
cards;
had the loan been used to repay Mr Ps credit cards he would still have been left with 
other debts and so payment towards  these needed  to be taken into account. Looking 
at the credit file there were monthly  payments of just over £300 recorded. Mr Ps 
declared income was £1,800 so this left around  £1,500. The loan repayments  were 
just under £400 leaving £1,100;
information about Mr Ps other expenses was requested  and he declared that he was 
living with his parents  and had no dependents. Therefore I didnt find it unreasonable  
to accept that he could have limited  outgoings  and based on his remaining 
disposable income I did not find that this should  have  raised  concerns;
the credit  file information  gathered  by RateSetter showed that Mr P was maintaining 
his repayments  and this was also supported by the more recent credit file that Mr P 
provided;
Mr P had no recent defaults prior to the loan and although he had made use of 
payday loans  these had been settled.
Having considered the information gathered I did not find that this raised sufficient concerns 
to have required further checks to have taken  place. Therefore I did not find that I had 
enough evidence  to uphold this complaint.
Mr P didnt accept my provisional  decision. He reiterated that he felt RateSetter didnt carry 
out sufficient checks  before  the loan was provided.  He said he had spent the maximum on 
his credit cards and overdraft and this should  have  raised concerns. He said that the 
provisional decision made no mention of his gambling transactions  despite these being of a 
substantial amount.
Mr P said that loan was a large amount compared to his income and that he had large debts 
at the time. He didnt think the regulations regarding assessing creditworthiness  had been  
followed. He said his credit reports showed  his debt had increased in the previous months 
and that he had been applying for other loans. He said that had his bank statements been  
requested it would have shown he had a mortgage  and was gambling. He said due to his 
circumstances he couldnt live in his home  and moved back to his parents as he couldnt 
afford his costs of living. 
Mr P said that at the time of the loan he was paying  £600 each month  on his credit  cards 
and that this should have  been factored into his expenses. He was also paying  £180 each 
month for travel. He didnt  feel that a thorough investigation had been undertaken before 
delivering the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN37985123In my assessment I have considered the relevant guidelines and legislation  including  those 
which Mr P has drawn my attention to. My decision is based on what  I consider  fair and 
reasonable given the individual circumstances of the complaint. 
I have looked  again at this complaint given the information provided by Mr P in response to 
my provisional decision. However my decision hasnt changed.
I understand that Mr P believes further  checks should have taken place given the size of the 
loan and the debt he already had. But I think that proportionate checks  were  carried out to 
assessment credit worthiness given the credit sought. I say this because  before the loan was 
provided RateSetter gathered information  about  Mr Ps income and his outstanding  credit 
commitment as well carrying  out a credit check.
Mr P declared a monthly  income of £1,800  and based on the information gathered I find it 
reasonable that RateSetter relied  on this.
Mr P provided information setting  out that he had £12,000 of credit  card debt, £8,000  of 
personal loans  and £1,000 overdraft. This information was supported by the credit check. 
While I can see that Mr P had debt of around £21,000 at the time and was also making use 
of payday loans, I also note the proposed intention of the loan was debt consolidation and 
that the payday loans  on his credit report had been  settled.
The loan amount was the same as the amount Mr P had outstanding on credit  cards and so I 
find it reasonable to accept that RateSetter  believed his intention was to use the loan to 
repay his credit cards and therefore reduce his costs. Mr P didnt do this but I cannot say 
that RateSetter should have been  aware he wouldnt do what  he had said he would.
Mr P did have outstanding  debt and this needed  to be taken into account when assessing 
affordability. Accepting that the credit  cards would be repaid  by the new loan (and I note 
while he did have a substantial amounts  outstanding he was keeping  within  his limits),  this 
left Mr P with other loans  to make repayments towards. Based on the credit check  carried  
out by RateSetter  this showed he was making  monthly payments of around £300. This gave 
a monthly disposable income of around £1,500  which  after the loan repayments would leave 
around £1,100  for his normal living costs.
The other information in the credit report received by RateSetter didnt raise concerns that 
meant I would have expected further investigation  to take place.
Mr P has said that although  he said he was living with his parents he was still paying a 
mortgage. I have  looked through Mr Ps bank statements and note the payment he is 
referring to. However,  based on the information  Mr P provided  when  he applied for the loan I 
dont find it unreasonable that RateSetter accepted his income was sufficient to cover  his 
credit commitments  as shown in his credit report and the loan repayments assuming he 
used the loan for debt consolidation. Even  taking this mortgage payment into account, Mr P 
would still have around £650  for his living costs  each  month.   
Mr P has said that his gambling transactions werent  considered in my provisional decision.  I 
can see that Mr P was spending  large  amounts gambling at the time of the loan. However 
there is nothing to suggest  he had told RateSetter about his gambling and I dont think it 
reasonable to have  expected RateSetter to have been aware  of this based on the 
information Mr P did provide. 
Ref: DRN37985124I accept that had Mr Ps bank statements been  requested then RateSetter would have 
realised Mr P was gambling  and may have  considered his application differently in light of 
this. However, based on the information Mr P provided when he applied  for the loan I think 
the checks carried out were proportionate. RateSetter was not required to ask for copies of 
Mr Ps bank  statements  and in this case I dont find it unreasonable  that these  werent 
requested. I think the information Mr P provided was sufficient for RateSetter to make a fair 
assessment of the affordability of the loan without the statements.
I understand the Mr P didnt use the loan to consolidate his debt and that this increased his 
indebtedness. However, I dont think RateSetter would not have  been  reasonably  aware that 
the loan would not be used for consolidation of debts.
RateSetter are required  to treat customers in financial  difficulties sympathetically  and 
positively and I would expect Mr P to be treated  this way in any ongoing discussions about 
his debt. 
Because of the comments made  above I do not find I can uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019. 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3798512