K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about Advantage Insurance  Company Limiteds handling of his car
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Mr Fs policy was due for renewal on 1 September 2018. Advantage sent him a renewal
invitation on 7 August  2018 that said his renewal premium was £1,227.98. But, soon after,
Mr F was involved in an incident with a cyclist which he reported to Advantage. Advantage
said they would have to treat that incident as an open claim for six months because there
was a possibility  that the cyclist might claim against  Mr Fs policy.  So Advantage
recalculated the premium  taking into account  the open claim and requoted the renewal
premium as £2,520.56.
On 29 August 2018, Mr F called Advantage to discuss the renewal of his policy. Mr F told
them that he had got other quotes  with other  insurers between £1,500 and £1,600.
Advantage told Mr F the best price  they could offer him was £2,428.49.  Mr F said that during
that call Advantage  told him that if he took out the policy at a cost of £2,428.49 and if after
six months the cyclist hadnt  made  a claim, Advantage would reclassify the incident as
notification only and they would refund him the difference  between the original premium of
£1,227.98 and £2,428.49.  Advantage dispute  saying that. They said they told Mr F that if
after six months no claim was made  by the cyclist, Advantage would recalculate the
premium to see if a refund  was due.
In February 2019,  six months after the incident,  Mr Fs mother  contacted  Advantage on his
behalf to ask for a refund given the cyclist didnt make a claim. Advantage refunded Mr F
£439.01. Mr F complained  saying  he was expecting a refund of £1,200.51, which  was the
difference between  the £2,428.49 premium he paid and the £1,227.98 original premium.
Advantage didnt  uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  But they did pay him £50 compensation because
they didnt automatically  update the policy  and issue a refund. Mr F didn't think it was fair
that Advantage didnt refund him the full amount, so he brought  his complaint to us. One of
our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Advantage hadnt  treated Mr F fairly.
She said that Advantage did tell Mr F that they would  refund him the full difference  between
the original premium and the premium he actually paid. She felt that if Advantage had told
him that they wouldnt refund the full amount, because Mr F had got lower  quotes he
wouldnt have taken  out the policy with Advantage, but he would have gone elsewhere.  Our
adjudicators proposed  resolution was that Advantage should refund Mr F the difference
between the premium he paid (£2,428.49)  and the lower quote of £1,500 Mr F got from
another insurer. The difference was £928.49. And as Advantage had already refunded
£439.01, the outstanding  refund  was £489.48. As Advantage didnt agree with our
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 29 July 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN31265692This complaint hinges on what was discussed during the telephone conversation on
29 August 2019.  I have  listened to that call a number of times. During the 
conversation, Mr F passed  the phone over to a relative who spoke to Advantage on 
Mr Fs behalf.  The relative said that the premium had almost  doubled because  Mr F 
had notified Advantage of the incident  with the cyclist.  The call handler  explained  
that, for the purposes  of the renewal premium,  the incident would be treated as a 
fault claim and remain  open  for six months.  And in the event the cyclist didnt make a 
claim, after six months Advantage would reclassify  the incident  as a notification  only 
incident. He went  onto say: and then if theres  any refund due if you were to take 
out the policy, after 6 months  wed recalculate  the premium and if theres any refund 
due and that would be issued back.
The relative quoted the original premium of £1227.98 and asked if Mr F would  get a 
refund of the difference  between that (the original  premium) and the amended 
premium of £2,520.56  (he had actually meant to say £2,428.49). Advantages call 
handler replied:  yeah a senior agent  would recalculate the premium  in 6 months 
time, and if any difference is due that is what they would return as a refund. The 
relative then said theyre quite happy with £1227.98 and they would stay Advantage.
Advantage acknowledged that by saying yeah the handler initially  gave the 
impression that a refund of the difference in premiums would be due. But they said 
that the call handler  corrected that by saying  that a senior agent  would recalculate 
the premium in 6 months time. But I dont agree, because the call handler  finished 
that comment by saying that [my emphasis] is what they would return as a refund 
in the event a refund  was due. And that was a reference to the difference between  
the original premium and the premium paid.
Having listened  to the call several times,  I believe the impression given by 
Advantages call handler to Mr F was that if the cyclist didnt make a claim within  six 
months, Advantage would  refund the difference between the original premium and 
the premium Mr F paid. The conversation has to be considered in the context that Mr 
F and his relative  are lay people without in-depth car insurance industry knowledge. 
So I dont  think that they could have  been  expected to have known that in the event 
the cyclist didnt  make a claim  and the incident got recorded as notification only, that 
a higher premium  would have been charged because having  a notification  only 
incident increased Mr Fs risk. I think that most lay people without in-depth car 
insurance industry knowledge  wouldnt  be aware that a non-fault  or notification only 
incident might cause their premiums to increase. So, in response to the question 
whether Mr F would get a full refund, I think the call handler should have explained 
that even if the cyclist didn't make a claim the premium was unlikely  to be the same 
as the original premium  of £1,227.  So it was unlikely that Mr F would get a full refund 
of the difference between the original premium and the premium he paid. Any refund 
would have to be calculated at the relevant  time.
Given Mr F had cheaper quotes  from other insurers, I think that if he was told there 
was no guarantee  that he would get a full refund, I think he wouldnt have  taken out 
the Advantage policy. So I think Advantage  should  refund him the difference between 
the premium he paid (£2,428.49)  and the cheapest other quote he got (£1,500). 
Advantage have  made the point  that we would  need  to see the other quote Mr F got 
to see if the data he provided and level the of cover were identical to Advantages 
policy to ensure they were like for like comparable. But I understand that quote is not 
Ref: DRN31265693available. In its absence  I think  I can rely on what Mr Fs told our service as evidence  
that the details  were  the same.
I think the calculation  done by our adjudicator is accurate: £2,428.49 (premium  paid)  
 £1,500 (other quote Mr F got)  £439.01 (Advantages refund to Mr F) = £489.48.  
In upholding  this complaint, I intend to require Advantage  to pay Mr F £489.48.  
Simple interest at 8% a year should be added to that amount from the date Mr F paid 
until the date he is refunded.  I understand this matter has been  a source of distress 
and inconvenience  for Mr F. So, to address  that, I also intend to require Advantage to 
pay him £100 compensation. This is in addition to the £50 compensation they have 
already paid him.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr F agreed  with my provisional 
decision. Advantage didnt agree with my provisional  findings and again reiterated their main 
points.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr F £489.48. Simple  interest at a rate of 8% a year should be added  to this 
amount from the date Mr F paid it until the refund  is made.1
Pay Mr F £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to him. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr F has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
1 If Advantage consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, they should tell M F how much they have taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3126569