K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc misled her to believe that if she applied 
for a mortgage she wouldnt  have to redeem the whole of the equity loans charged on her 
property. Mrs S incurred fees only to find out that NatWest  wouldnt provide a loan to clear  
the secured charges. Mrs S would like NatWest to refund these  fees.
background
Mrs S contacted NatWest  in 2017  to get a better interest rate and some additional 
borrowing. Mrs S wanted to pay off part of two equity  loans  that she took out in 2010.  In 
addition to the mortgage Mrs S took out these equity loans from the developer and the 
government to help her buy the property. These  loans were taken out to pay for 30% of the 
value of her property. Mrs S says that before she met the NatWest advisor in September she 
had paid £420 for a valuation of her property and £250 to a housing  association to start 
processing the partial redemption.
A mortgage adviser from NatWest discussed the mortgage with Mrs S on 28 September 
2017 and advised her that to meet the affordability  assessment  that she would need to 
extend the period of her mortgage. Mrs S extended  the term of the mortgage  which  
completed on 20 October 2017. Mrs S then had a meeting with the mortgage  adviser  on 
November. NatWest said that they couldnt  provide the additional borrowing. Mrs S was 
looking to borrow enough to pay off two thirds  of the equity  loan. This was because the most 
she could borrow together with savings  would allow her to pay off £72,000.  But NatWest 
required the equity  loans to be paid in full which Mrs S couldnt  pay off. So NatWest didnt 
make a mortgage offer. 
NatWest didnt believe that it had done anything wrong but agreed to pay Mrs S £135 for her 
time and a fee she paid for extending  her mortgage. Our investigator  didnt  recommend  that 
this complaint should be upheld as she felt that NatWest hadnt given any guarantees that 
the application would be successful and Mrs S would have incurred the fees she paid in any 
case. Mrs S disagrees and asked for a review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S wanted to pay off as much as she could from two equity loans that were on her 
property. To determine what she could pay off, she needed to have a valuation of the 
property. Mrs S could then see how much she would  have to pay and then see if she could 
afford it by looking at what savings she could afford to put towards the purchase  and how 
much she could borrow from NatWest.  
Mrs S had contact with NatWest from March  2017 but it clearly couldnt do anything until 
Mrs S had her valuation. Mrs S got and paid for her valuation  in September 2017  which  
valued her property at £350,000. Mrs S then had to work her figures out but she was also up 
against time as one of the requirements set by the administrator for the equity loans was that 
the purchase had to happen within three months of the valuation otherwise  there  would be 
Ref: DRN34904422another valuation.  So, Mrs S had to set the wheels in motion including instructing a solicitor  
before she knew whether  there would be a mortgage available to buy out the equity loans.
Mrs Ss feels  that NatWest should  have been aware  before early November that she could 
only partly  redeem the equity loans. As this was unacceptable to NatWest, she feels that 
NatWest should  have told her earlier than it did. Mrs S sent an email  to NatWest dated  28 
September 2017. This is a request to the NatWest adviser to advise how much  NatWest can 
lend and talks about not redeeming the equity  loans in full but only redeeming  20% of the 
equity.
I see that the NatWest  adviser returns on 29 September referring to a further discussion on 
that day. The adviser sets out for Mrs Ss assistance the steps that she needed to take to 
apply for the further borrowing. In that email the adviser  talks about Mrs S repaying the 
equity loan of £72,000. It seems  that the adviser  had assumed that the equity loans would 
be repaid in full because  he talks about there being no monthly payments towards the equity  
loan after the additional borrowing. The adviser  says that that with the additional borrowing 
any Equity Loan payments will end as you are returning  to do additional borrowings to repay  
the Equity Loan  (i.e. there will be no monthly commitments for this loan once you complete 
the additional borrowings  Ive asked  the adviser about this and he tells me that he believed 
Mrs S was thinking about raising enough to pay off the balance  of the equity loans  from 
savings or from family assistance.
In order to qualify  for the affordability  of the higher loan, Mrs S had firstly to apply to extend  
the term of the mortgage. So, Mrs S couldnt  do the actual mortgage application until after 
the mortgage was extended. This meant that she didnt meet with the mortgage adviser until 
the beginning of November when she found  out to her disappointment that NatWest required 
her to redeem the equity  loan in full which she wasnt  able to do. I appreciate that this then 
put her in a difficult position because of the pressure to meet the time demands of the 
administrators of the equity loans.
It does seem to me that this is a case where  there was a genuine misunderstanding between 
the mortgage adviser and Mrs S about  how much of the equity  loan she intended to redeem. 
In his email of 29 September the adviser sets out his understanding that the equity loans will 
be paid in full. I appreciate  that in her earlier email Mrs S felt that she had clarified that not all 
the equity loans were  being redeemed. But if the adviser had picked this up wrong, Mrs S 
could then have  responded  to set the adviser right about what  she wanted  but I see no email  
to that effect.  I dont  believe  that this was a case of the adviser being unhelpful or 
deliberately misleading  Mrs S. The adviser is clearly helpful  to Mrs S in the email of 29 
September setting  out the stages  of the mortgage process.  
Mrs S had to pay some  fees which I believe she would  have  had to pay in any case  in order 
to achieve her objective of paying off the equity loans. So, I dont believe that I can fairly  
require NatWest to pay these. I do understand that Mrs S was under pressure of time to get 
the additional borrowing and she feels that NatWest let her down by not alerting her to its 
requirement that the equity loans be repaid in full. But my view is that there was a genuine 
misunderstanding by NatWest of how much of the equity loans Mrs S was going  to redeem. 
The adviser was proceeding  on the mistaken  but genuine assumption that the equity loans 
were to be repaid  in full which he sets out to Mrs S in his mail of 29 September. I also bear in 
mind that NatWest had made no commitment to Mrs S that it would provide her with a loan. 
So, in those circumstances  I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.    
Ref: DRN34904423my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint,
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3490442