K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in 2009 by Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (Barclays).
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 6 December  2018, in which I explained why 
this complaint shouldnt be upheld. Both parties were  given  an opportunity to comment and 
provide further  evidence.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  that this policy was mis-sold  and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
Mrs G applied for her card online. First of all Ive checked whether she was eligible for the 
policy, and based  on her circumstances at the time of the sale I think she was eligible.
Next, Barclays was required  to make it clear to Mrs G that the PPI was optional.  Mrs G 
informed us that she was told  or it was implied  that she had to take the policy in order  to 
get the card. However Barclays  has been able to give us screenshots  of how the webpages 
would have looked at the time Mrs G applied for her card.  These would have given her the 
chance to select  yes or no to indicate  whether or not she wanted the PPI. So overall,  I 
think its most likely  that Barclays made  it sufficiently  clear to Mrs G that the policy was 
optional and she chose  to take it out. 
Next, I dont think Barclays  advised  Mrs G to take PPI in the sense that they didnt provide a 
recommendation to her based on her personal circumstances at the time of the sale.  This 
means Barclays didnt  have to check if the policy was suitable for her. 
However, Barclays did have to provide Mrs G with clear information   in particular about  the 
costs, benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy  - so that she could decide for 
herself if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs G wasnt as clear as it should have been.
However, I dont think better  information would have put her off the policy.  She doesnt 
appear to have been affected by the main exclusions  or restrictions in the policy. And the 
costs and benefits of the PPI were comparable  to other, similar policies  available at the time. 
When Mrs G first brought her complaint  to us she informed us that she had sufficient 
savings, insurance  and employer benefits to make the PPI unattractive  to her. But shes 
been unable  to provide  us with persuasive evidence of these. 
When many  years have passed  I understand that its difficult to recall details accurately and 
consistently from memory. So, Ive considered the issue on the basis  that if Mrs G was made  
unemployed or was too ill to work  that she would at least have been entitled to redundancy 
or sick pay worth six months  full pay and six months half pay. However, even assuming that 
Ref: DRN37627982she had these employer  benefits, I still think the PPI benefits would have been attractive to 
her for its cost.  So, having taken everything into consideration,  I dont think Barclays  
mis-sold Mrs G this policy.  Which means  Barclays  doesnt have  to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to her.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above Im not upholding this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt  
mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs G.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3762798