K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt  
carry out sufficient affordability checks before granting him a Safety Net facility  in 2016.  Mr M 
also says had SNC carried out sufficient checks, it wouldve seen that he couldnt afford it. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  31 May 2019.  
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  SNC didnt respond and so didnt 
provide anything further for me to consider. Mr M told us he didnt have anything further to 
add. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has accepted the findings of the provisional decision, and SNC hasnt responded, so I 
dont know what,  if anything, it disagrees with. However, no new information has been 
provided so I see no reason to depart from the findings and outcome I reached in the 
provisional decision. 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr M, SNC  should:
refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ms Safety Net facility; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of this facility 
having been given to him.
I understand that Mr M has an outstanding  balance  remaining on his Safety Net facility. If 
after having  removed all the interest  and charges  applied from the outset, an outstanding 
balance remains, SNC can deduct this from the amount it now needs to pay Mr M. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN36291802my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision I uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36291803EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited  (trading  as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  didnt carry out 
sufficient affordability checks before granting him a Safety  Net facility  in 2016. Mr M also says had 
SNC carried out sufficient checks, it wouldve seen that he couldnt  afford it. 
background
Mr M approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in 2016. This was a running credit account where a 
consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds  would be deposited  into their 
bank account once their account balance  fell below a safety net amount of the customers choosing.  
Mr M was initially given  a facility with a £400 credit limit in December  2016.  His limit was then 
increased to £430 in January 2017.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Mr Ms complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried out before 
granting this facility were  proportionate  and so he didnt think it was wrong of SNC  to have  granted the 
facility. The adjudicator  took account  of the facts that there wasnt any significant  adverse credit file 
information that SNC was aware of at the time. In addition,  while the bank statements  did show some 
gambling the adjudicator didnt think it was sufficient to have  prevented SNC  from granting the facility, 
as it wouldve believed that Mr M could afford the minimum repayment he was expected  to make. 
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment.  He said that his income wasnt as high as the 
adjudicator believed. Mr M also believes that we hadnt considered his gambling losses.   No 
agreement was reached, so the case has now been passed to me for a decision.     
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint in full and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below.  
the relevant regulations in place at the time Mr M was given his Safety Net facility 
I think  it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr M this facility  when it was 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the 
time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments  under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement  (like Mr Ms Safety Net 
facility),  to make payments  within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
Ref: DRN36291804And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer 
wouldve been  able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it 
could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender could 
take into account  before  agreeing to lend.  The key thing was that it required a lenders  checks  to be 
proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
Ive kept all this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to before  agreeing to Mr 
Ms Safety Net facility. As explained, Mr M was given what was an open-ended credit facility.  So 
overall I think that this means the checks SNC carried out had to provide enough information for it to 
be able to understand  whether Mr M would likely  be able to service  and then repay his facility within a 
reasonable period of time.
why I think  SNC  needed to do more before agreeing  to give Mr M his Safety Net facility
SNC says it reviewed Mr Ms bank transaction data for the 90 days prior to the facility  being approved. 
And having done so, it says it was satisfied Mr M wasnt experiencing difficulty meeting his existing 
commitments. So therefore, it was likely  he would be able to afford the payments he was committed 
to making. 
SNC also carried out a credit check before the facility  was provided, and it has provided us with the 
results. It was aware of some adverse  information, such as a default. I dont think  this information  on 
its own wouldve automatically led to SNC  declining Mr Ms request for a facility.  So based on the 
combined results of its review of Mr Ms banking transactions and the credit check  SNC believed Mr M 
would be able to maintain the facility he was offered.
However, unlike the adjudicator, I dont think SNCs checks went far enough before  granting the 
facility. Indeed,  I think actually SNC  needed  to go further because I dont think  it is enough to simply  
obtain information about a consumer. What SNC also needed to do was react to what  it was seeing,  
in a proportionate manner. 
In this case, SNCs checks showed that at times substantial sums of money  were being transferred 
from the account it was reviewing to and from a third party  electronic payments provider. This was on 
top of the transactions that SNC saw and categorised as gambling. 
To be clear,  I dont think, in this instance that SNC needed to ask Mr M for access to his third party 
electronic payments provider account before agreeing  to grant  him the facility.  But where a lender is 
aware that such a significant proportion of a consumers  incoming funds  are being  transferred to other 
accounts and there are other flags in the transaction data obtained, I think it is proportionate to carry  
out further enquiries into these other accounts. 
Given the amount  of money being transferred along  with the sheer number of gambling transactions 
that SNC saw, I think  that SNC shouldve asked Mr M for more information  in order to find out what 
was happening. 
Ref: DRN36291805what I think SNC wouldve most likely found  out if it had asked  further questions  
Even though  I think that SNC shouldve asked Mr M further questions before giving this facility this 
doesnt, on its own,  mean Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. After  all its possible that further checks 
wouldve simply shown SNC that Mr M would most likely have  been able to repay his Safety Net 
facility within a reasonable  period of time. I therefore would see no reason why it shouldnt have given 
him the facility. This is because Mr M wont have lost out because of SNCs failure to carry  out 
proportionate checks and thered be no reason  for me to uphold the complaint.  
But if further checks would most likely have shown  Mr M was unlikely to have been able to repay  this 
facility then SNC wouldve  seen that it shouldnt  have lent to his. And this would mean that Mr M lost 
out because of SNCs failure to carry out proportionate checks. So thered be grounds  to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint.   
As proportionate checks werent carried out I cant know what exactly  they would have shown. But Mr 
M has provided  us with some further clarification about his financial circumstances at the time the 
facility was granted. So Ive been able to get a picture of what they were  like. 
Ive carefully considered everything  Mr Ms told us as well as the information SNC  has provided into 
its review of Mr Ms financial  position. Having done so, I dont think  Mr M had the capacity  to take on 
his Safety Net facility. As Ive explained, based on what SNC had seen, I think  that proportionate 
checks wouldve extended into finding out about more  about the transactions in Mr Ms account rather 
than simply  adding  up the credits received and deducting any outgoings.
I think  if such checks had been carried out at that time they wouldve shown  that Mr M was spending 
significant amounts of money on betting websites, indeed  SNC was already aware of the majority  of 
this following its review of his bank statements. However,  in addition Mr M has also confirmed that the 
third party electronic payments provider  transactions that were visible were  also gambling 
transactions. 
For example, in the month of October Mr M made 26 separate  attempts to send money to his third 
party electronic payments  provider account. And he appears to have moved around £3,800 out of his 
account and received credits  of around £1,652. This is on top of the gambling that SNC categorised of 
£670. 
And, in the month before  the facility was approved (November 2016) SNC categorised £998  of 
gambling while also being aware of living  costs (Ive only counted direct debits  or standing  orders) of 
at least  £1,500.  And in the month of December,  SNC  was aware of over £4,811 of gambling. 
I accept that SNC  may have believed that Mr Ms income  was higher than it was, but it could only 
have believed  this because it was counting credits to his accounts from his third party electronic 
payments provider  account as well as any credits from gambling websites and online casinos. So in 
affect, SNC was counting gambling winnings  as income, which I dont think is fair and reasonable. 
These winnings  are not guaranteed and are not a sustainable source of income.  
So, had SNC carried out further checks, its likely that it wouldve  seen that Mr M was spending 
significant amounts of money on gambling each  month, and I think  its more likely than not it wouldnt 
have lent to him. I say this because it wouldve been clear that Mr M did have any disposable income 
in order to be able to afford the repayments to SNC  in a sustainable  manner without suffering adverse  
financial consequences.    
Overall I think  not only did SNC fail to carry out proportionate checks before giving  Mr M his Safety 
Net facility, but that Mr M also lost out as a result of this.
Ref: DRN3629180