K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited (Admiral) declined her claim for 
theft on her motor insurance policy. 
background
Ms H said she parked her car and left it for the day, but when she returned  it was missing.
She contacted Admiral  to make a claim for theft,  and she also reported  the theft to the
police.
Around two weeks  after reporting her car stolen, Ms Hs car was found by the police. It was
in a different location to where she said she had parked it  but still close  by. The car was
locked, in a parking bay, and showed  no obvious  signs of damage  or forced  entry.
Admiral said it didnt  think the car had been  stolen  as Ms H described.  It also noted
inconsistencies in Ms Hs testimony  when shed described what  happened. So because  of
the lack of damage, or obvious  signs the car had been stolen, as well as the inconsistencies
in Ms Hs testimony, it concluded that Ms H had made a deliberate attempt to mislead it. So
it said it had no option but to decline the claim.
Ms H didnt agree, and maintains she parked the car in the initial location she told Admiral
and the police. Shes said she has no reason to mislead Admiral,  and shes upset and
insulted by the accusation.
She said Admiral had wrongly accused  her of fraud   and she sought independent
professional advice, and she provided news articles to support her argument that cars can
be stolen without damage.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 October  2019. In my provisional 
decision I said:
Ive looked first at whether Admiral  assessed  Ms Hs claim fairly, and in line with the terms of
her policy.
Ms Hs policy  explains  that if her car is lost or damaged as a result  oftheft or attempted
theft, you will be covered for the loss or damage  to:
your car
The policy also says Admiral will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false,
exaggerated or if Youmakes a claim in a fraudulent  or false way
The police report, their supporting photographs,  and the assessment in the engineers report
show there were no obvious  signs of theft. The windows and locks  on the car were intact
and there  was no damage to the ignition. Admiral has explained its reasons for believing  the
car wasnt stolen, and Ms H has been consistent  in saying  her car wasnt  where  she left it,
and that it had been stolen. But having  considered the available evidence,  I dont think I
need to decide whether the car was stolen  or if Ms H had simply forgotten  where shed
parked it. Because, on balance, Im not satisfied Admiral has done enough to show that
Ms Hs claim  for theft was fraudulent  or that she deliberately tried to mislead  it.
Ref: DRN38439722Admiral has doubts over Ms Hs version of events.  And I do acknowledge there are some
inconsistencies in her testimony. But, on balance, the key facts in what Ms H has said have
remained the same. Shes been  consistent  in where  she said she left the car, that she had
left it for the day  and that it wasnt where she had left it when she returned. And I dont
think its likely that, if she was going  to deliberately misrepresent information, Ms H would
lock and abandon her car in a parking  bay less than a mile from her home address  or from
where she said she parked it.
So while there are some  inconsistencies, I dont think  Admiral has shown enough for me to
conclude  or think its more likely than not  that Ms H deliberately  tried to mislead them.
At the point Ms Hs car was recovered,  it was sent to an engineer to assess  what  damage
was present and the cost of any repairs. The engineer said it appears  to have suffered
theft or attempted  theft to the underside. and It would appear the Catalytic  Converter has
been stolen from the vehicle.  So I think its clear that even if the whole car wasnt stolen
then at least some part of it was.
So, Ms Hs claim  had essentially  changed. And it was now about damage, as a result of theft
(or attempted), rather than the theft of the car itself.  And as Ive set out above,  I dont think
Admiral has enough  to persuade me the claim was most likely fraudulent.
Based on the cost of repairs estimated by the engineer, it appears  Admiral decided Ms Hs
car should be declared a total loss. And while Im satisfied  the claim for theft of the car itself
is no longer a consideration, I think theres enough evidence to show  there was a valid claim
for damage  to Ms Hs car as a result of theft or attempted  theft.
So, on that basis, because Admiral has already inspected the car and reached a decision  to
declare it a total loss, I think it would be fair for Admiral to settle  Ms Hs claim for damage,  in-
line with the policy terms, limits and exclusions. Due to the time shes been  without the
money, Admiral should add interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date of the claim to the
date it makes payment.
Additionally, Admiral has also said it wants to recover storage costs from Ms H. Ive asked
Ms H for the current location of the car, and shes confirmed its still with the salvage agents.
From what  Ive seen, Ms H hasnt asked  for her car back. And because  I think  Admiral
should have considered Ms Hs claim as being for damage rather than theft  based on the
engineers report,  I think it would have reached the same conclusion to declare the car a
total loss, at which point, the car would  become  Admirals property. So because I currently
think Admiral should  have settled Ms Hs claim,  I dont think  its fair to hold her liable for any
storage costs of a car Admiral would have then owned.
Ms H has said this experience has been  distressing for her, and shes clearly upset at being
accused of deliberately misleading Admiral. So I currently think Admiral  should pay Ms H
£100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
Admiral didnt respond to my findings. Ms H responded  and indicated she would be happy to 
resolve the matter  how I had suggested. 
Ref: DRN38439723my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms H nor Admiral  disagreed  with my findings, I see no reason to depart from 
them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint, and require Admiral  Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
pay Ms Hs claim for damage  as a result of theft in-line with the policy  terms, limits 
and exclusions  plus 8% simple interest on the settlement amount, from the date of 
the claim, to the date the claim  is settled1; 
pay Ms H £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms H a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN3843972