K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wont refund money  she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
background
On 4 February 2019 Mrs D received a call from a fraudster purporting  to be from HMRC. 
Mrs D was told that she hadnt paid tax over a period of a few years and that she owed 
£1,947 in unpaid taxes. The years referred  to were ones where Mrs D hadnt been working. 
Mrs D queried  this and was told that by not paying, it appeared she was trying to hide her 
identity. Mrs D was told that if she paid the balance  outstanding today, the arrest  warrant  
against her would be lifted.
Mrs D verified  the number she was being called on by checking online and found it to be 
HMRCs legitimate phone  number. Mrs D has explained she was scared, so made the 
payment.  Mrs D made a bank transfer  of £1,947  to the fraudster by online banking.
Mrs D said that, after ending the call, she became suspicious and immediately contacted 
Barclays to report that she had been scammed. Barclays tried to recover the funds from the 
receiving bank. However, the receiving bank has responded  to say that no funds remain  to 
be recovered.
Mrs D complained to Barclays. She said she proactively contacted Barclays within minutes  
of being scammed  and that the money lost was her savings for a house. As Barclays were 
unable to respond within the agreed  timeframes, Mrs D brought  the complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into things but didnt think Barclays could have done anything  to 
prevent the scam  she didnt  consider the payment Mrs D made was particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual  that it shouldve raised  Barclays suspicions.  And she was satisfied that 
Barclays did what it could to recover Mrs Ds money  once  it was made aware  of the scam.
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mrs D, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having  thought  very carefully 
about Barclays actions,  I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to 
leave Mrs Ds account. I also dont  think it could have done  any more  than it did to try and 
recover the money.
So, having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Barclays  should 
reimburse her the £1,947 she has sadly lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN31118062In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances, irrespective  of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs D, when Mrs D made a transfer  to the fraudster and when she reported the fraud,  
or whether it should have done  more than it did.
Mrs D has accepted that she authorised the transfer of £1,947 herself. Because of this,
Barclays had an obligation  to follow her instruction. But there  are some situations in which  it
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as
Ive explained,  I consider  that as a matter of good  practice Barclays  shouldve been  on the
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
Having reviewed the account activity  on Mrs Ds account statements, from which  the 
payment was made, for the 12-month  period leading up to the scam,  I dont  think  the 
payment Mrs D made to the fraudster was particularly unusual or out of character in 
comparison to the normal account activity. I say this because there are several other 
transactions, including faster payments, for amounts in excess  of £1,000 (ranging up to 
around £2,800) and the payment didnt clear  an unusual  amount off the account balance. 
So, I dont think a payment of £1,947  was particularly  out of character or unusual and Im not 
persuaded Barclays acted unreasonably  in not making enquiries  about the payment before 
processing it.
Ive gone on to think about  whether Barclays did what it shouldve done  once  Mrs D had 
reported that shed been the victim  of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Barclays made to 
recover the money, once  Mrs D reported  the scam. For me to be able to fairly ask Barclays 
to refund the money to Mrs D, Id need  to be satisfied that Barclays shouldve  acted sooner 
to try and recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide 
whether it made any difference.
Ref: DRN31118063In this case I can see that Barclays raised the claim against the receiving bank just over an 
hour after Mrs D called to report  the scam. Unfortunately, the receiving bank confirmed that 
there were no available funds remaining. So, Barclays wasnt able to recover the money 
Mrs D had paid the fraudster. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Barclays  did what  it 
should have done and didnt miss an opportunity to recover the funds.
Its very unfortunate  that Mrs D has lost this money  to what is a cruel and sophisticated 
scam, and I understand the experience has been very upsetting for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Barclays should have done more  to prevent her 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays  to refund the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3111806