K820x#14complaint
Mrs B on behalf of the estate of the late Mr H complains that Key Retirement Solutions 
Limited shouldnt  have sold him a lifetime mortgage  in 2015. Mrs B wants Key to return  her 
fathers estate to where it would have been  without the lifetime  mortgage.
background
Mrs B says that her father was a vulnerable  adult  living in hoarded, unsanitary conditions. 
Mrs B says that Mr H had been  a hoarder  and self-neglecting since the 1990s.  Mrs B says 
that her father had alcohol and gambling addictions  and that as a vulnerable  person he 
shouldnt have been sold a lifetime mortgage in 2015.  
In 2015 Mr H was aged  80. An adviser from Key which is an equity release adviser met with 
Mr H and completed an Equity Release Questionnaire (ERQ).  On the basis  of the ERQ 
Key recommended  an equity release product with a provider. Key summarised why that 
recommendation was suitable in a letter of recommendation  in September  2015. It noted  that 
Mr H had credit card debts of £14,000 and an overdraft of £2,430.  Mr Hs monthly income 
was recorded  as £1,300.  Mr H wanted  to raise  money to pay off these debts, provide some 
money to re-wire the house and make some  cash available.  So Mr H borrowed about 
£29,000 on foot of the equity release mortgage.  
Mrs B says that the mortgage adviser  should have been aware of the very poor condition of 
the property including hoarding, human waste  on floors,  and walls, rotting bags of food, and 
rot, damp, mould and ivy growing inside  the house. Mrs B says that when Mr H became ill he 
had no money left, he couldnt afford  a care package that would have benefited  him in his 
illness. Mr H died in March 2018. Our adjudicator  didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld  as he felt that Key had done nothing wrong. Mrs B disagreed  and asked 
for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H applied for an equity  mortgage through Key and the Key adviser recommended  the 
product to him. The loan was provided  by an equity release mortgage provider. Mrs B has 
made a separate complaint against the equity release provider  which I have dealt with in 
another Decision.
In 2015, Mr H had some financial difficulties. Mr H applied for an overdraft and a loan with 
his bank and appears to have got the overdraft but not the loan. I note on 28 September 
2015 that his bank  refused to pay a number of direct  debits.
Before Mr H applied to Key he made an application  to another  provider following an 
interview with a broker. That broker recommended an equity release mortgage for about 
£32,500. The interest rate was 6.5%. The lender  carried out a valuation and one of the 
recommendations was that Mr H should instruct a qualified electrician to inspect  the 
electrical installation  and carry out the recommended works. The property was valued at 
£70,000 and £73,000 after repairs. The valuer notes  that The general condition of the 
Ref: DRN36946932property appears consistent  with the age and type of construction but some works of repair 
and maintenance  are required.  
Mr H didnt proceed with the application  through that broker  but approached Key. A 
representative from Key attended with Mr H in September 2015. The adviser  noted  that Mr H 
wanted to borrow  money  to pay off credit card debts and his overdraft, wanted a new 
computer and money for re-wiring and was looking to borrow £29,100. Mr H said that he had 
county court judgements in 1994.  He said that he was in good health and on no medication 
although he was a smoker. There was a question as to whether he could get assistance 
from other family members  and the response recorded was that this is not something  you 
would ask your children . Mr H was asked  if he had discussed his plans with his children 
and said that he didnt  want his family  to be involved in the decision . Mr H also mentioned 
his previous application with the other equity release provider. 
Mr H had tried to get a loan through his bank but was refused. Mr H had equity  in the 
property and wanted to borrow on that and was successful. I note that the interest  on this 
product was 5.39%. The valuer for the new mortgage provider valued  the property at 
£70,000. So, Mr H got the money at a lower  interest rate than with the other provider. But 
that meant  that the lender got a mortgage  on the property which would reduce any equity  
available to the estate when Mr H died. Many  people  apply  for a an equity  release mortgage  
and its quite a popular product for people such as Mr H who have equity in their property  and 
want some   capital in their later years. But the sale of the product is capable  of abuse and so 
there are safeguards over its sale.
Mrs B believes that Mr H was a vulnerable person and shouldnt have been sold this 
product. Its recognised  that some  people are vulnerable through  say mental incapacity or 
language problems or are under pressure from other  persons to borrow money. They  may 
feel they have  to take out the loan by high pressure sales techniques to take out equity 
mortgages.
Mrs B has had sadly to deal with the death  of her father after what  must have been a terrible  
illness. Mrs B has produced many photos of the condition  of the house. Some  of the photos  
relate to the physical  structural condition of the house and others to the human waste and 
the rotting food. The physical  condition  of the property isnt good and would indicate that 
basic maintenance issues werent  attended  to. I noted that part of the money Mr H asked for 
was to rewire the house. This priority may have followed on from the first valuer drawing his 
attention to that issue.
Mrs B points to evidence that her father was a hoarder, had some addictions  and didnt 
maintain the property in good  condition. Mrs Bs photos draw my attention to the human 
waste in the property. Sometime after Mr H took out the loan he began to suffer  from a 
terminal illness. Im not clear when these  photos were taken but I presume that the majority 
may have  been  taken  after he sadly died and when Mrs B had the task of cleaning the 
property. But there is other  evidence  that this wasnt the condition of the property in 2015.  
Neither of the two brokers mention  it, nor do the two valuers and nor does Mr Hs solicitor  
who visited the property.  I note that I have not seen any evidence  of any physical  or mental  
illness that could  have caused  this before  Mr Hs terminal illness.   
But, apart from that, I believe its clear that Mr H knew what  he was doing when he took out 
this loan. Before  he took out the loan he tried a bank and another equity release provider. 
This wasnt a case of Key making an uninvited phone  call and then a hard sell. Mr H actively 
invited Key to assist  him. There is no evidence that he lacked the mental  capacity to make a 
Ref: DRN36946933financial decision at that time. Ive seen evidence where he has calculated rather  neatly the 
amount of outstanding debts he had. There was no frenzied  note to suggest any mental 
incapacity.
Two advisers from different companies visited Mr H and took his instructions and recorded  
them. The instructions he gave are similar  to both advisers which  indicates that he was 
consistent in his requirements and doesnt  suggest  a confused sate of mind. Ive not been 
provided with any medical evidence that Mr H suffered from any mental or other illness  that 
affected his mental  capacity at the time he took out this loan. There  is no suggestion that 
Mr H was acting under duress  from another person to obtain the loan.  Just to be sure of that 
I asked Mrs B to provide  me with copies of Mr Hs bank accounts  from when he received the 
funds but I didnt receive these. But Ive no other indication  that Mr H was acting under the 
duress of anyone else.  
One of the safeguards that the equity release provider  puts in place is that Mr H appoints a 
solicitor and the solicitor attended on Mr H to confirm he understood what he is signing up to. 
Ive looked at the certificate dated  2 November 2015 and note that the solicitor  certifies:
We confirm that there were no obvious  indicators that the client lacked mental or 
physical capacity to understand the transaction
The client did not appear to be acting under any undue influence  or external pressure 
from any third party
  
So, the solicitor  confirms that Mr H had the mental  capacity  to proceed with the application. I 
have no medical  evidence that would  contradict that and indeed the evidence is that in 2015 
Mr H was making a rational decision to borrow money on the strength of his asset much as 
many other people do. Because  of that I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694693