K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained after Ageas Insurance Limited  declined his claim  under  his home
insurance policy. He has also complained  about how this was communicated  to him and the
subsequent service he received.
background 
In March 2019 Mr B contacted Ageas to make  a claim  for storm damage.
Ageas appointed surveyors who then inspected the property and damage to the wall and
subsequent damage to the decking and the swimming pool.  The surveyors informed Mr B
that his claim would be declined.
Mr B complained about this response  and the different reasons he had received  for the claim
being refused.  He brought it to our service  to look into. Ageas then clarified  that the claim
had been declined as although  they agreed  there  had been  storm conditions, storm damage
was not the main cause. They said that it was instead  the poor design and construction of
the wall and so refused  the claim.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought that Ageas had acted fairly in 
declining the claim for storm  damage. However,  I felt that Ageas should pay Mr Bs claim for 
damage caused by the fallen wall, under the accidental damage cover provided  by the 
policy. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined  below.
when we consider  complaints regarding storm damage, we follow  a set approach. 
There are three  questions which need  to be considered and if all the answers are 
yes a claim will likely succeed.  But if any of the answers are no then its likely the 
claim will fail.
were there storm conditions? - The wind records for the area were checked and 
recorded as reaching  55mph at the time the damage has been reported as 
happening. I would consider this speed as storm conditions  and Ageas are not 
disputing this.
is the damage consistent with storm damage? - There  is damage to an outside wall, 
a large section of which has collapsed during the high winds.  This has then damaged  
the decking and swimming pool below the wall. This type of damage,  given the right 
conditions, is consistent with storm damage.
was the storm the main cause of the damage?   The surveyors  report highlighted 
that the wall had been built to twice the height recommended for a single skin block  
wall. I dont believe that the storm was the main cause of the damage, but that it 
probably highlighted the poor construction of the wall. This was supported  by the fact 
that an older, adjacent  wall, that had been  constructed correctly, was not affected  by 
the storm. 
The walls bricks falling has caused  damage to outside decking,  electrical  fittings, 
swimming pool and swimming pool surround  and lighting. Mr B had additional 
Ref: DRN39255862accidental damage  cover as part of his policy, that protected his property against 
unexpected and unintended damage  caused  by sudden and external means.  
This damage was unexpected as it was due to the falling bricks. I have not seen 
anything to suggest Mr B was aware that this might  happen. I believe that this 
damage was due to the sudden and unintended falling of the external wall. I therefore  
believe it meets the definition  given for accidental damage.  
I have also considered Mr Bs complaint points regarding the way this outcome was 
communicated to him and the subsequent  service he received. Ageas apologised 
and I think this was a sufficient response. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Ageas responded to confirm that they accepted  the findings set out in the provisional 
decision. They agreed that in this case,  there had been accidental  damage to the swimming 
pool and surround. 
Mr B responded to say that he agreed that there  had been  accidental damage caused by the 
walls falling bricks. However, he felt that the claim for storm damage  to the wall should 
succeed. He stated that there was no sign of damage to it and it was well maintained.
my findings
As there is not much  further  for me to consider, my decision remains  as outlined  in my
provisional decision  for the same reasons. I appreciate Mr Bs comments. However, it was 
the poor construction of the wall that I feel contributed to its damage, rather than any 
maintenance issue with it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited  should pay Mr Bs claim for damage 
caused by the fallen  wall, under the accidental damage cover provided by his policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3925586