K822xcomplaint 
Mr W complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (LF) has been chasing him for a 
debt that he doesnt owe.
background 
Mr W took out a loan that was subsequently sold to LF. Mr W says that in 2016 a debt 
management company  (DMC)  on Mr Ws behalf  came to an agreement with LF that would 
settle Mr Ws outstanding  balance, and reduced  the total amount owed by Mr W. The 
agreement was to pay a lump sum followed by 30 monthly instalments.
In 2018 LF contacted Mr W demanding an outstanding balance  in a similar amount to the 
amount that had been reduced from the total amount owed in 2016. He contacted  LF and 
complained about this, explaining that his debt had been fully settled  in line with the 
agreement in 2016.
LF responded to say that theyd never come to a settlement  with the DMC. Theyd explained 
to the DMC  at the time that they werent  able to accept  a settlement with a lump sum 
followed by monthly  payments. But the DMC had made those payments to LF anyway. They 
said there was nevertheless an outstanding  balance remaining. They also confirmed that 
interest on the debt had been frozen since 2013.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service.  He provided a copy of an email from him to the 
DMC in 2016 confirming he was happy  for the DMC to pay the lump sum to LF as part of the 
agreement. He also provided a settlement account  statement from the DMC showing the 
lump sum payment to LF.
An investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and upheld it. The investigator said there was 
evidence that LF had come to an agreement with the DMC. And that Mr W didnt owe LF any 
more money. LF didnt  accept the investigators findings so the matter  was passed to me for 
a decision.
Following this, LF confirmed that they had now found confirmation  of their agreement  with 
the DMC  in 2016.  And there was no outstanding balance remaining. So, they offered to 
close Mr Ws account. But Mr W didnt  accept this offer as he says he should  be paid 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that these events have caused him.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why.
Looking at the email  Mr W provided  from 2016  and the settlement statement, clearly
showing the lump  sum payment to LF, its clear  to me that there  was an agreement  in place 
to repay  Mr Ws entire debt in the way hed outlined.  I cant say why the amount demanded 
in 2018 was different, although close to, the final balance that remained in 2016. But given 
there was no interest being charged on the debt since that agreement, once Mr W had paid 
the lump sum and the 30 monthly payments his balance should have been zero.
Ref: DRN31280742So, Im glad to see that LF have now accepted that an agreement  existed and have offered 
to close Mr Ws account. As part of closing the account, they should also ensure that there  is 
no outstanding  balance.
That being  said,  I dont  think  LFs offer goes far enough.
I dont know why it took so long for LF to find and acknowledge the agreement made in 
2016. But nothing  changed, in terms of Mr W told both LF and us about the existence of an 
agreement, in between our investigators view and LF finding the agreement. So, I think  its 
likely that LF could have  found the agreement far sooner and at the point that Mr W raised 
his concerns directly  with them.
So, Mr W has been caused stress and worry for around 12 months unnecessarily.  In 
particular, hes explained that hes had a cloud hanging over him and has been  afraid  to 
spend money or take out credit. He also said that calls from LF caused him stress as they 
threatened to take him to court if he didnt pay the money back.  So, he was left worried 
about the impact  of a potential court judgement. And his plan had been  to retire once the 
debt was repaid,  which was something  that was thrown into uncertainty when LF said he had 
an outstanding  balance.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ws account of the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused  him. And, I think £500 compensation is a fair reflection of all of this.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr W has confirmed  that he accepts my decision and agrees that £500  compensation is a 
fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
LF have  also confirmed that they agree with my provisional decision.  
my findings 
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties have  confirmed that they agree with my provisional  decision, I see no reason 
to reach  a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct Link 
Financial Outsourcing  Limited to: 
Remove any outstanding balance on Mr Ws account and close it  ensuring the 
account is shown  as fully settled.
Pay Mr W £500 for his material distress and inconvenience*.
Ref: DRN31280743*Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days from when 
we tell them Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay interest 
at 8% simple a year on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.  
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3128074