K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance 
(Audi), didnt organise an independent  inspection of a car he was leasing and have over 
charged him for refurbishment of the damage identified  in that inspection.
background 
Mr E took receipt of a new car in October  2016. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Audi. When he returned the car it was inspected  by an inspector 
who worked for an auction company  Ill call company B. The inspector highlighted the 
following damage that Audi subsequently asked Mr E to pay for as they said this was 
required under  the terms of the agreement:
alloy wheel key missing £150.00
front bumper dented £138.00
rear bumper scratched £110.40
quarter panel  LHR dented £138.00
wheel LHF scratched £36.00
wheel RHF scratched £36.00
Mr E was disappointed with the charges. He said theyd been  overstated  by Audi and that 
Audi should have  used  an independent inspection company.
Audi said that B were independent of them and they didnt think the charges  were 
unrealistic.
But Mr E disagreed with them and he therefore  referred his complaint to this service  where  
our adjudicator provided his opinion. He explained that B were independent of Audi but he 
considered the damage that had been  charged  for, and the charges  that had been made, in 
order to establish  whether  he thought  Audi had been unreasonable. He explained that the 
charges theyd made were in line with the charges they had published. He didnt think  they 
were excessive but he did think the charge  for the scratch  to the RHF wheel hadnt been 
clearly evidenced  in the inspectors photograph  and should not be charged.  
Audi agreed  to drop the £36 charge for the RHF wheel but Mr E still disagreed  and he 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr E so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN36935842board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The agreement explained that:
4.5 you  will be responsible for any damage or deterioration of the vehicle  except 
through fair wear and tear.
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) provide the industry  guidelines 
on what would be considered fair wear and tear when cars are returned  at the end of their 
leases.
Im persuaded that Company B is an independent company. They routinely inspect vehicles  
from Audi, and from other manufacturers,  to the BVRLA guidelines.
Ive reviewed the damage that B has said is beyond reasonable wear and tear and I agree, 
for the same reasons  as the adjudicator explained in his view of 8 April 2019, that all 
charges, except for the charge for the RHF wheel, are clearly evidenced in the inspectors 
photographs, to be in excess of the BVRLA standard  and therefore chargeable.
Mr E was able to have  this work  rectified  before he returned the car if he wished to and may 
have been able to get the work done  a little cheaper. But he didnt  do that. 
Ive reviewed the prices  charged by Audi and I dont think theyre excessive.  Theyre  in line 
with those that theyve published and also broadly in line with others that Ive seen charged 
by their competitors. Im not persuaded therefore  that these charges are unreasonable  or 
that, overall, Audi need to take any further action other than to remove the charge for one of 
the scratched  wheels.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to waive the refurbishment charge theyve made  for the 
scratched RHF wheel.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3693584