K821x#15complaint
Mr B, who is represented by Mr C, complains that FirstRand Bank Limited wouldnt let him 
reject a car. 
background
In late September  2017 Mr B bought a second  hand car which was little over two years old. 
It cost £8,795 of which £6,795 was funded by FirstRand  by way of a hire purchase 
agreement. It had done 56,230 miles. 
In early December the car broke down and was taken to a main dealer. It concluded the 
driveshaft had come out of the gearbox  and gearbox  oil was very low. It suspected  the lack 
of oil was the cause of the problem. However, it wasnt  able to repair the fault under warranty  
as Mr B didnt have the cars service  book. As well as being covered by the manufacturers 
warranty the seller had provided  an independent warranty. The warranty company  said that 
Mr B had done 15,206 miles since acquiring  the car and the 60,000  mile service  hadnt been 
carried out which would have included an oil change.
Mr B asked the seller  for the book, but says he was told that the car had been sold without 
one. Mr B contacted FirstRand It said the seller should be allowed the opportunity to repair  
the car. The seller  told FirstRand that it had sent Mr B the service history along  with a copy 
of the AA pre-sale  inspection  report carried out in August 2017. It also offered to have the 
car independently inspected, but Mr B refused. 
He brought his complaint  it this service where  it was considered by one of our investigators 
who suggested that the car be inspected. An inspector sought to undertake an inspection,  
but was unable to do so because the car was in an overgrown area which meant  the 
inspector couldnt  access it. The inspector noted  that he had been told the car had been  
stood for months and not used. FirstRand offered to have the car inspected again  if Mr B 
granted full access.
Mr B said the car wasnt in an overgrown area and sent a photo  to confirm this. A second 
inspection wad suggested and Mr B offered to tow the car to wherever was suitable, but 
FirstRand felt too much  time had passed.
The investigator issued  a view recommending  the complaint be upheld.  She noted  the main  
dealer had identified a serious fault which it had been prepared to fix, if it had been given the 
service book. The cause  of the fault hadnt been established. However, she noted that Mr B 
was willing  to have  it inspected and it had been  with the main dealer for some  four weeks 
during which  it could have been  inspected.  She thought Mr B should  be allowed to reject it, 
but he should pay for the car being  towed and a new battery fitted.
Mr B agreed, but FirstRand didnt. It said that the inspector  had explained that the car wasnt  
accessible when he visited the agreed location in July 2018. Since then there had been  
delays in getting a second inspection arranged. It said that it wasnt necessary for the car to 
be taken to a garage. All was required was that the inspector be given access to the car and 
to be able to inspect it. Mr B had made  no effort to contact it since August 2018  and it didnt 
think rejection was appropriate. 
Ref: DRN30057132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I consider this to be a very finely balanced decision,  but after due consideration I find myself 
in agreement with the investigator.
It is clear there was a significant fault with the car, but what is not clear is what the cause 
was. More importantly  was the fault present at the point  of sale? Mr B had done  a high 
mileage in the short time he used the car, but that of itself doesnt tell us if the fault was 
inherent, or not, when  he bought it. There is a suggestion of poor maintenance though it is 
not clear if that was before  or after Mr B bought the car, or possibly both. 
It is regrettable, that the inspector felt unable to complete  his inspection. The photograph 
supplied by Mr B, which I believe is genuine doesnt show that the car was inaccessible. It 
was parked on rough ground, but the area wasnt overgrown. I would have expected the 
inspector to have  provided photos showing why he considered  the car inaccessible,  but he 
did not do so. 
However, the one issue which seems  to be more straightforward, though it too has some  
areas of uncertainty is that the car didnt have a service book. I gather if this had been 
provided then Mr B would  have been able to get it fixed  under  the manufacturers  warranty.  
The sale sheet suggests one was provided  when the car was sold. However, the seller later 
claimed that the car had been sold without one. 
Clearly there is a conflict in the sellers positon  and I have  not seen any evidence of a 
service book or any service record which I would  have expected the seller  to be able to 
provide. It is an important document and I would  have  expected  it to be made available or for 
an electronic version to be supplied. I gather the manufacturer keeps digital work records 
Ref: DRN30057133and assuming it was serviced at an approved dealer prior to sale I would have  presumed  
such information would have been available. If it isnt then that would suggest the car hadnt  
been properly  serviced prior to the sale and that would support the view that the fault may 
have been present when  Mr B bought it.
I appreciate the point  made by FirstRand about Mr B not being in contact with it for some 
months and him leaving the car unused.  I have some  sympathy  with that point of view and it 
has caused me to think about rejecting his complaint. I appreciate  he felt let down, but I think 
if he had agreed to an independent inspection earlier the matter may have been  resolved 
some time ago. However,  I dont think that takes away from the point that a repair was 
prevented by the lack of documentation. As I consider Mr B contributed  to the delay  I dont 
think FirstRand should pay interest  on the settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FirstRand  Bank  Limited to:
allow Mr B to reject the car
arrange with Mr B for collection of the car, 
refund  his deposit and any payments made  after December 2017
remove any adverse entries on his credit file.
The above  is subject  to Mr B paying for and installing a new battery and paying for the car to 
be towed to the seller.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3005713