K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  is saying that she owes over
£140 despite saying a payment that was made on her behalf would clear her account.  She
doesnt think this is fair, and doesnt  think she should have to pay the amount Shop Direct
Finance Company Limited is now saying she owes.
background
Miss T has a flexible account  with Shop Direct  Finance  Company Limited (Shop Direct).
It allows her to purchase items and then pay for them later.
Shop Direct contacted Miss T in April and May 2018  as shed fallen behind with her
payments. Miss T explained why, she said that her mother  was helping her out and that 
shed make a payment  at the end of May 2018.
Miss Ts mother  made  a payment of around £65 at the end of May 2018  as Miss T had said
she would. Miss Ts mother says that when she made the payment,  the call taker told her
that it would  clear the balance on the account.  Shop Direct says that the payment didnt clear
Miss Ts account balance,  and a balance of around  £140 remained outstanding, which
includes charges  and interest.  So, Shop  Direct started to chase  Miss T for payment.
Miss T complained to Shop Direct  about it chasing  payment.  She said that, as Shop Direct
had told her mother that the payment  of around  £65 would clear her balance, she should not
have to pay them anything further.  Shop Direct investigated  Miss Ts complaint but didnt
uphold it. They said that they had no record of a call taker saying that the last payment made
would clear Miss Ts balance.  They also said that Miss T would have been aware of the
balance as shed  been sent monthly  statements and had logged  into her online  account.
Miss T brought a complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into Miss Ts
complaint. The investigator didnt uphold  Miss Ts complaint. The investigator  felt that Miss T
was aware that the last payment didnt clear  her account balance.
Miss T didnt accept the investigators view.  So, she asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ts complaint is that Shop Direct provided her mother with incorrect information and
because of this she hasnt made payments  to her flexible account resulting in charges and
interest being added to the account.  Miss T says that she should not have pay her remaining
balance as Shop Direct gave her mother incorrect information.
Ref: DRN39598402Shop Direct havent been able to provide a record of the call between  them  and Miss Ts
mother. However, Miss Ts mother has provided  an account of what  was said during the call
 namely that she was told a payment of around £65 would clear the balance  on the
account. Im grateful  to Miss Ts mother, but I dont think what  she was told during the call
ultimately makes a difference because I dont agree it would be reason enough  to say that
Miss T now owes  Shop Direct nothing. Ill explain why.
Miss T contacted Shop Direct after her mother had made  the payment of around £65. She
did so using Shop Directs web-chat service.  Ive seen a transcript  of what  was said.  In the
web-chat, Shop Direct  says to Miss T that after the £65 payment, she still has a balance of
around £80. Miss T replies that she will pay it all off next month. She doesnt   in fact she
doesnt make any further payments. Miss T logged into her online account several times
between May and August 2018. Miss T would have  seen the balance on her flexible account
when she logged in. Miss T accepts  that it was her logging  into her account.
Im satisfied, given what was said in the web-chat and given the information Miss T would 
have been able to see when she logged into her account, that Miss T was aware  that her 
balance wasnt cleared and that there  was an outstanding balance.  Miss T received 
statements in the post from Shop Direct too. She says that she didnt open them  that she 
just put them  in a drawer. That may be the case,  but I dont think thats  a reason to say that 
Shop Direct shouldnt  expect payment. I also think that Miss T ought to have  known there 
would be an outstanding balance  even without  the web-chat, logging  on and the 
statements. I say this because Miss T knew shed  bought items worth approximately  £200 
that she was meant to make monthly  payments  towards,  and the payments she made  were  
nowhere near £200.
In short,  Shop Direct have provided  clear  and accurate information to Miss T via web-chat,
their account  statements  online  and via post.  I dont think Shop Direct needed to do more to
make Miss T aware that she had an outstanding balance. I also think  its more likely that not
that Miss T was aware that there  was a positive balance remaining on her account. I dont
think it would  be fair and reasonable for Miss T to say that incorrect  information provided by
Shop Direct in a call with her mother should  negate  all the clear  accurate information Shop
Direct provided to Miss T after this call took place. It follows that I dont think it would be right
to uphold this complaint.
the response to my provisional  decision
Miss T has said that she has nothing further  to add. 
Shop Direct havent made any comment  to my provisional decision. 
my findings 
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have  asked me to consider any further information  and havent made any 
comments in relation to my provisional  decision,  I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN39598403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3959840