K821x#15complaint
Ms H says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 6 instalment loans MYJAR provided to Ms H between  June 2017 and 
May 2018. Ms Hs borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 04/06/2017 01/07/2017 3 £100.00 £53.53
2 08/07/2017 04/08/2017 3 £700.00 £367.68
3 31/08/2017 14/09/2017 3 £875.00 £480.04
4 19/09/2017 23/09/2017 3 £200.00 £99.47
5 11/10/2017 15/05/2018 12 £1,000.00 £153.35
6 16/05/2018 outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £151.15
Ms H says MYJAR  did not identify she had become dependent on short term lending. She 
complains it didnt carry out effective affordability  assessments.  If it had done so, she says 
MYJAR would not have  given her the loans. She concludes it lent irresponsibly to her.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Hs complaint and thought loan 6 shouldnt have been given 
based on her borrowing  relationship with MYJAR.  MYJAR disagreed  with our adjudicators  
view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again.
None of the parties has commented on loans 1 to 5 being rejected, so I wont  reconsider 
those loans again  I only need to consider loan 6. However, I will look at Ms Hs full lending  
relationship with MYJAR to assess the case fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN37310192the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. However, I dont think we reach  that point 
here in Ms Hs case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a check which was more proportionate for Ms Hs situation in 
respect of loan 6 would most likely have shown that Ms H was having  problems  managing 
her money well. I think MYJAR should have made a full review  of Ms Hs finances and 
previous loan history  before lending to make sure she could sustainably  repay  the loans. 
On doing so, it is most likely that MYJAR would have realised Ms H was not engaged in 
short term lending to deal with an unexpected  cash-flow, particularly as some  of the loans 
were only days apart and the first three loans were for steadily  increasing  amounts. It was 
more likely she had longer term financial problems which she wasnt managing  well. So I 
dont think MYJAR should have given loan 6 to Ms H.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 6 and MYJAR should  put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR Limited needs to do
MYJAR Limited shouldnt  have given Ms H loan 6. 
If MYJAR  Limited has sold the outstanding  debts,  it should buy these back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  If MYJAR  Limited is not able to buy the debts  back then 
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
Ref: DRN37310193A)Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H towards interest,  fees and charges 
on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  you have 
already refunded.
B)Calculate 8% simple  interest* per year on the individual payments made by Ms H which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms H originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made  by Ms H as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms H having  made  overpayments then 
you should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple interest* per year calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. You should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and 
move to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding  loans (and any principal MYJAR 
Limited has already  written-off). If this results in a surplus then the surplus  should  be paid 
to Ms H. However if there is still an outstanding balance  then you should try to agree  an 
affordable repayment  plan with Ms H. MYJAR Limited shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made  up of the principal  which it has already written-off.
E)Remove any adverse  payment information  recorded on Ms Hs credit  file in relation to loan 
6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR Limited  to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR 
Limited should give Ms H a certificate  showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Hs complaint. MYJAR  Limited  
should put things right for Ms H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3731019