K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has dealt with 
his complaint. 
In short  he says:
The business has failed to comply with its regulatory obligations  towards him.
It failed to properly  investigate and resolve his complaint.
It spelt his surname  incorrectly  and provided  documentation in a poor condition.  
Mr H would like the business  to acknowledge and correct all of its failings and compensate  
him for the inconvenience caused.  
background
This case arises from a separate complaint by Mr H from 28 June 2018.  Our service found 
that the business had failed to respond to his request for information, and recommended that 
the business provide an apology and the information requested in a timely manner. 
In this instance the business upheld Mr Hs complaint. In summary  it said:
It had misspelt his surname, which showed  a lack of care and professionalism, but 
feedback had been given  to the individual  concerned. 
It also apologised for any documentation  that wasnt received in a perfect  condition.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said the business had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly. Although mistakes had 
been made, the business acknowledged  this and apologised. The investigator didnt 
recommend the business do anything further. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Hes asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In short, he feels his complaint points have been  misunderstood and not 
appropriately dealt  with. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says Im satisfied that the 
business has dealt  with his complaint fairly.
Having dealt with some of Mr Hs previous complaints Im sure he will be aware  of what Im 
about to say. Nevertheless its important to remind him, in the event that he feels Ive not 
considered his complaint properly. 
Ref: DRN39019882The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr H and the business,  and reach  what  I think  is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  
Ive also considered if I need  more information,  but having done  so Im satisfied that I dont.  
In my opinion the business quite rightly accepts  that it made a mistake  by misspelling Mr Hs 
surname. It apologised  for the error  and has undertaken to speak to the individual  
concerned, rather than seek to excuse its actions. 
I dont think Mr Hs name was deliberately mis-spelt  to upset or frustrate him, rather  it was a 
typo/oversight and the business is taking appropriate steps to ensure that the error doesnt 
happen again.  
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy, but in the circumstances I dont think  the business is required 
to do anymore. It appears to be an isolated  mistake, for which a single individual  was 
responsible. The situation might have  been different if the error had been ongoing, over a 
long period of time, and the business  had repeatedly failed to rectify it, despite  Mr Hs efforts.  
In response to further questions by Mr H about  the involvement of external parties  with the 
policy, Im satisfied the business provided  open  and honest answers to his questions.    
Despite what Mr H says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance,  overall  Im satisfied 
that the business has fulfilled its obligations towards  him  as set out in DISP rule 1.6. 
Im satisfied that the business has generally provided early  assurances that it was dealing  
with his complaint  and kept him up to date with the progress, and measures taken to resolve 
it. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with the outcome of my decision, on the face of 
the evidence,  and on balance Im unable  to uphold the complaint and give him what he 
wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3901988