K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that hes lost out financially because Scottish Widows Limited sent him an 
incorrect annuity quotation.  He opted to take the annuity. He says on the back of the 
incorrect quotation he took on other financial arrangements. He wants  Scottish Widows 
Limited to honour the incorrect quotation.
background
In June 2018, Scottish  Widows sent Mr C his annuity quotations. His policy had a Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate (GAR) for payments made into the policy prior to a specified date. When Scottish 
Widows calculated Mr Cs annuity  quotations,  it did so on the basis that the GAR  attached  to the 
whole of his policy, when that wasnt  the case. Some payments into his policy had been made 
after the specified date, so the GAR didnt apply to these. The quotations  Mr C was sent did say 
they were  not guaranteed .
In July 2018, Mr C took one of the options set out in the incorrect annuity quotations.
In August 2018, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr C telling  him that his annuity would be around  
£2,961 rather  than the £3,229  he was expecting. Scottish Widows didnt explain  to Mr C that the 
main reason for the difference was because  the earlier quotation  had been incorrect.  It simply 
pointed out that the June  2018 wasnt guaranteed,  and it had now recalculated his benefit at his 
chosen retirement date.
Mr Cs adviser wrote  to Scottish Widows  querying the difference. Scottish Widows then explained 
that the earlier quotation  was incorrect. It apologised  for sending  out an incorrect  quotation and 
for not explaining  this error prior to Mr Cs annuity being put into payment.
Mr C complained to Scottish Widows in September 2018. Scottish Widows said in response
an incorrect GAR was used on the annuity quotations.
when  it was setting  up Mr C's annuity  it noticed the GAR  was incorrect  and so set 
up his annuity on the correct basis .
it ought  to have  contacted Mr C before it set up the annuity on the correct basis.
it wouldn't honour the original quote as Mr C was not entitled to those funds.
it offered £400 in recognition of the poor service it had provided.
it offered to reverse the annuity, if Mr C wanted  it to.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Cs complaint and thought  that Scottish Widows  offer was a fair 
and reasonable  way to resolve  his complaint, so he did not uphold it.
Mr C disagreed. He said, in summary, he felt pushed into deciding  which option to take as he 
was given a short time to decide, to get the GAR. He based  his decision  on the figures he was 
given, which allowed him to take on other financial contracts. He said he thinks hes been treated 
very unfairly.
As agreement  couldnt  be reached  Mr Cs complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN32531302Its not in dispute  that the quotation Scottish  Widows  sent Mr C in June 2018 was incorrect.  I can 
understand why Mr C was disappointed to learn afterwards that his annuity was around £268 per 
year less than he was expecting. However, it seems clear  that Mr C wasnt legally entitled to this 
extra amount, based on the contributions made and the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I 
cant fairly require Scottish  Widows  to honour the quotation purely on the basis that it made  a 
mistake thats  caused  Mr C disappointment and upset.  That would  put him in a more favourable 
position than he wouldve been in, but for the error.
Mr C said that hes lost out financially because on the back of getting this level of annuity he 
entered into some other financial contracts  that cant now be undone.  We asked  Mr C to provide  
more details about these;  he hasnt done so. Without  this information, I cant see that he has lost 
out financially. So, I cant reasonably make an award  on this basis. Its possible the impact was 
less than it couldve  been,  because the difference in amount was at the lower end, at around  
£268 per year.
But, Scottish Widows shouldve told Mr C about  its error prior to putting his annuity into payment. 
This wouldve given him the opportunity  to review his options, based on correct information. 
Scottish Widows has paid Mr C £400 in recognition of this poor service. I think  this is a fair 
and reasonable amount to compensate  him for the trouble and upset hes been put to by 
Scottish Widows  actions.
Scottish Widows has also said that it will allow Mr C to unwind the annuity, if he wants to. I 
think this is a fair response. Mr C should contact Scottish Widows direct  if he wants to take up 
this offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Scottish Widows Limited is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Scottish  Widows Limited has already paid Mr C £400  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused and has agreed to let him unwind the annuity contract, if he wants to. 
So, I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3253130