K821x#15complaint
D, a limited company,  represented by Mr R on behalf of Ms G, a director of D, has 
complained about its employer  liability insurance  provider Society of Lloyds  (SOL).  SOL has 
withdrawn cover for D part way through Ds defence of a liability claim made  against  it (and 
four other defendants) by a claimant  injured at work. The policy  is a joint one between D and 
its sister  company (also limited).  Whilst  SOL initially withdrew cover for both, it then 
reinstated the sister companys cover (seemingly  because the policy  afforded  cover to both 
separately as though  separate  policies were in place) and continued defending it. D alone 
has complained  to us about SOLs refusal  to cover it.
 
background
In 2009 D entered into a work agreement with K. There was a clause in that agreement:
At all times  [D] shall indemnify [K] against  all liabilities to other  persons for bodily  
injury.which may arise out of or in consequence  of.the works and against  all 
costs.occasioned.
D, and its co-insured,  arranged employer, public and product liability cover with SOL.  Cover 
by SOL was provided from 5 December 2013 until 4 December 2014.
In February 2014  there was an accident in which an employee got injured.
In March 2015 D signed an agreement  with K to pay K any costs  it had as a result  of that 
injury. The agreement stated that no liability was accepted.
In February 2016  the employee  made a claim against D and four other companies (including 
the sister  company and K). D contacted SOL and solicitors were  provided to defend the 
claim on its behalf. In May 2016  the solicitors  were provided, by the defence for K, with the 
agreement document  from March  2015.  In July 2016  Ks defence  also shared the 2009 
contract document with Ds solicitors. K said it would be relying on these agreements and 
expected D to make payment to it. 
Ds solicitor told SOL that the agreements had effectively prejudiced his defence of D. He 
said that the agreements would impact  the way hed intended  to defend  D. 
SOL considered the situation and decided that the agreements meant D had breached some 
key conditions of cover. It set out certain  terms in a letter to D (Ive included  copies of the 
wording SOL set out at relevant points in my findings below). SOL said the advice from the 
solicitor showed that its ability to defend  the claim had clearly  been prejudiced and that in 
view of the breaches it had identified its liability to D had been discharged.  It wouldnt offer D 
any further assistance in defending the claim or cover any liability  found.  D sought its own 
counsel to continue its defence. The court  case is on-going. 
D complained to this service and our investigator felt SOL had acted unfairly. He felt D 
should still be able to benefit  from the policy and that SOL should resume its defence.  
SOL didnt agree with the findings our investigator  made. It said, amongst other  things, that 
the policy doesnt oblige it to carry out the defence and if the policy  was found to apply to D, 
in this instance it would seek to only pay Ds defence  costs.  It also said that if it was found 
Ref: DRN31987202that cover  only applies  due to certain  regulations it would seek to rely on the policy term 
which allows  it to recoup any outlay it has in this respect from the policyholder.
The complaint was passed  to me and I didnt think it should be upheld. I issued a provisional 
decision explaining  my views. SOL didnt respond. Mr R on behalf of D did. Ive considered  
the responses made but my view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld  hasnt changed. In 
essence Im satisfied that the compulsory insurance  regulations dont apply to prohibit SOL 
relying on a breach of a valid condition precedent to cover to avoid liability. Ive set out Ds 
responses and my view on them within my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional decision I said:
The parties have raised, argued and responded on many issues  since  the point of SOLs  
withdrawal of cover. Ive read everything but I dont  intend to go over all the points here. 
Some fall away as a result of my other  findings.  Im also mindful of the on-going  court case. 
Nothing I say here should impact it and my focus  will remain on the issue of policy  cover.
unfair term
(b) Observance
Observance of the terms of this Policy  relating to anything to be done  or complied with by 
the Insured is a condition precedent to any liability of the insurer  except insofar as is 
necessary to comply  with the requirements of any legislation enacted in Great Britain 
Northern Ireland the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man relating to compulsory insurance  of 
the legal  liability  to employees. 
D says this term is misleading and unfair because it seeks  to blanket numerous terms with 
the same  key importance where some clearly cant have that same  impact.  In Ds view SOL 
shouldnt be able to rely on the observance clause, and that would mean  that the other terms 
SOL has alleging D has breached would not be conditions precedent to cover. 
I dont think the term is unfair.  The term, or ones similar to it, appear in most commercial  
insurance policies.  This term is part of the policy and is both available within  and applicable 
to the policy  at the point of sale. So it doesnt,  unlike  some  Ive seen, purport at the point of 
purchase to commute all of the sales information into precedent  terms.
Furthermore I dont think the wording  of the term is unclear and nor do I think it seeks to 
blanket all policy terms in the way D has suggested.  The term quite specifically says that it 
only applies  to terms relating to anything to be done  or complied with. Now that may apply 
to a good number of clauses but it isnt a truly blanketing term. I think it is specific  enough.  
I dont think its unfair.  I dont think there are any grounds on which  I can fairly and 
reasonably say SOL shouldnt be allowed to rely on this term.
No objection to these findings  was made.  Therefore, Ive no cause to add to or change what  
I said and these are now the findings of my final decision.
My provisional findings continued:
Ref: DRN31987203compulsory insurance regulation
  
D says that SOL cant rely on terms that allow a breach to take away  all cover, not when that 
breach occurs after the incident that is at the heart of any claim.  SOL says these regulations 
dont apply in the area where  the injury occurred. Im not sure the location of the injury  is 
relevant in this respect (the insurance  was arranged in this country so would likely be subject 
to UK laws). But Im also not sure that the regulations or where and how they apply are that 
important. They would  be if I felt the 2015 agreement  was relevant; whether or not it equated 
to a breach it occurred  after the incident  that gave rise to the claim. But I dont. 
Mr R said these findings must be wrong  as a matter of law.
I understand Mr Rs view on this but whilst the Regulations prohibit conditions  precedent  in 
insurance contracts,  that is only in certain  circumstances. The only relevant  circumstance  is:
 a) some  specified thing is done or omitted  to be done after the happening of the event 
giving rise to a claim under the policy;
So if the 2015 agreement was relevant, which was signed after the event giving rise to the 
claim (the accident), then the Regulations would likely mean that conditions precedent 
couldnt be relied upon to defeat SOLs liability. But as I said provisionally and reproduced 
further on in this document, the agreement that is relevant  in my view is the one signed  in 
2009, before  the event that gave rise to the claim. And the Regulations dont prohibit 
conditions precedent in that circumstance. Mr Rs comments in this respect havent 
persuaded me to change my decision  as provisionally stated. 
My provisional findings continued:
the policy covers K
It does but only as a principal. So the policy offers to pay K, as an interested  third-party, in 
the event D wishes  K to be paid and where  the policy has been  found to respond  in respect 
of D. K isnt an insured  in its own right. That term is defined  in the policy  (and so has that 
specific meaning whenever it is used in bold type) to mean the named  policyholders, D and 
its sister  company, and any of their subsidiary  companies.
For the payment  to be found due to K in the circumstances here would first of all mean that 
D would  have to be found to have  a valid indemnity. And there are currently  two issues  that 
are relevant  to determining that a) whether SOL has any liability to D given the alleged  
breaches, and b) the outcome of the court claim which  hasnt been  decided yet. So even if 
Im minded  eventually to find that SOL cant fairly say its liability  has been discharged  due to 
D breaching conditions precedent, I wont be recommending SOL indemnifies K.
Mr R said it isnt the case that the policy  first has to find in favour of D before K can benefit. 
He said there is no pre-condition to this extension to cover  stating that it extends  to D as well 
as K. In fact, he says, the clause  allows  for K having had a claim made against it alone, D 
doesnt have to have action taken  against  it too. And indemnity would equate  to on-going  
defence for K as well as indemnity for damages.
The policy clause in question  is (my emphasis):
Ref: DRN319872043. INDEMNITY TO OTHERS
If the Insured so requests  and it is agreed  by Insurers the indemnity granted  extends  to.
(d) any Principal for legal liability in respect of which  the Insured  would  have been  
entitled to indemnity under this Policy if the claim had been made  against  the Insured  
arising out of work carried out by the Insured under a contract or agreement.
So, whilst I agree that there doesnt  have to be an actual  claim made  against  D and that 
there is no pre-condition allowing D to benefit  from this clause as well as K, Ds entitlement  
to liability under the policy in general does have to be considered  and found valid in order  for 
K to benefit as principal. Therefore, I cant fairly  require that SOL indemnifies K as principal 
in a situation where the policy would never have covered D (due to a breach of a condition 
precedent to cover).
My provisional findings continued:
impaired right of recovery
(r) Subrogation of the policy, includes
The Insured  must do nothing to impair any rights  of recovery.
I dont think either of the agreements impaired SOLs right of recovery in the circumstances 
here. I think  an agreement of this type could potentially do that but here the court case  will 
decide liability. And both D and K are defendant in that action. So if the court finds D is liable 
to any extent it wouldnt be possible for SOL to seek to recover any of its outlay in that 
respect from K on the basis that K was really responsible because Ks liability will have been 
decided as well. The situation would  likely  be different  if the court was only hearing the case  
on the basis of Ds liability.  But here I dont think I could fairly say D impaired a right of 
recovery where no right exists that could be impaired.
Mr R said he agreed with my findings  in this respect and explained  why. Ive no reason to 
add to or change what I said provisionally.
My provisional findings continued:
accepted liability and negotiated settlement
(l) Claims  procedure
(ii) The Insured  shall not admit liability for or negotiate the settlement of any claim without the 
prior written consent of the Insurer who shall be entitled to conduct in the name of the 
Insured the defence or settlement of any claim or to prosecute  for their own benefit any claim 
for indemnity or damages or otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any 
Proceedings and in the settlement of any claim and the Insured shall give all such 
information and assistance as the Insurer may require. 
D has argued this term doesnt  apply because  it has only entered into agreements with K. 
The agreements dont  admit liability for any specific claim and they dont  negotiate 
settlement. They are merely contracts between  it and K. To an extent I think  D has a point 
here. But I dont think  any of that is the key issue at the heart of SOLs reliance  on this term. 
Ref: DRN31987205In its letter  explaining its reason for withdrawing cover  from D, SOL set out the whole term, 
as I have here. It didnt  opt to quote just part of it, which it did do in respect of the 
subrogation clause.   It then went on to say how it felt the agreements had prejudiced its 
ability to defend the claim. So I think the key part of the term above  is actually  the insurer  
shall be entitled to.have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings.
Ive seen a letter from Ks representative. It confirms that it intends to rely on both 
agreements in the course of the proceedings; one of which  pre-dates the incident. Ive also 
seen a letter  from the solicitor SOL appointed initially to act in defence of D. He says that the 
intention for the agreements to be relied  upon  will mean he cant defend the claim in the way 
he otherwise would have done.  So the agreements mean he, and by extension SOL, doesnt 
have full discretion  in how the proceedings are conducted. Ds act of entering into these  
agreements has effectively breached this term of the policy.
I think the situation is no different if the 2015 agreement is taken out of the equation (as it 
occurred after the incident) and only the agreement within  the 2009 contract document  is 
considered relevant. Ive seen no indication that the presence of the former document  only 
would have allowed  the defence to progress as planned. That doesnt seem  likely to me.
Whilst the 2009 contract agreement pre-dates  the policy I dont think that makes any 
difference. Just because  it existed previously doesnt mean it cant have an impact on terms 
included within a subsequently arranged policy. It may well be, as D has suggested, that this 
type of term is common in the area of business it is involved in and that SOL agrees to offer 
cover for. But that doesnt mean that SOL cant choose to limit its liability  in this respect.
Exactly what  risks an insurer chooses to take on or leave itself exposed  against is up to it. 
The term in question here is a common one across  most insurance  policies.  And I dont think 
its particularly significant in general terms. So I dont think  SOL needed to highlight  it or 
draw attention to it in its policy  document. And if it did hold particular significance for D for 
some reason  I note the policy was purchased through a broker.  So SOL wasnt responsible 
for the way the policy was sold to D.  
Unfortunately for D this means that I think SOL was entitled to withdraw  its cover. Its action 
in this respect was, in my view, fair and reasonable. I dont intend  to make SOL reinstate the 
cover it otherwise would  have afforded to D. This means it wont have to defend  D, pay Ds 
defence costs or indemnify D for any liability it is found to have in respect of the claim made 
against it.
Mr R made  a number of points in this respect.  
Mr R said that as the 2009 agreement pre-dated the policy  it cant  impact the policy  going  
forwards; the policy cant be backwards looking except in so far as material  disclosures are 
concerned, which this wasnt. Im not persuaded by what  Mr R says in this respect because 
the agreement  wasnt defunct during the course  of the policy  cover. The agreement  came 
into force  before the policy did but was still live and capable  of being applied  during the life 
of the policy. So this isnt an issue of the policy being backwards looking.
Mr R also said that the agreement didnt preclude  D from making  or pleading  a claim against 
K. So the insurer could still do so too. Therefore, nothing had occurred to compromise its 
discretion. In my view,  whilst  that may be, the issue here isnt about whether D, and 
therefore SOL, can make  claims  against K or whether in general the agreement detracts 
Ref: DRN31987206from the worth of such claims. The issue is a specific one  has the agreement in this case 
prejudiced SOLs discretion in handling  of this particular claim?
In respect of the claim in question Mr R said that the existence of the agreement doesnt  
constitute a legal defence.  Whilst I note his view in this respect SOLs solicitor said that the 
existence of the agreement  prevented him from defending D in the way he otherwise would 
have done. So the agreement did prejudice  SOLs discretion in handling  the proceedings. 
 
Mr R went on to point out that whilst the 2009  agreement is so common  in the industry, SOL 
didnt choose  to expressly exclude  its liability in respect of the existence of such a clause. If 
it had D wouldnt have  accepted the policy. I appreciate that D might have done  something  
differently if SOL had. But I dont think there was any need for SOL to set out any further 
exclusions. It is up to an insurer what it chooses to cover and how it wishes to express that 
in its policy  wording. If there was an issue of clarity with the policy  wording then that could be 
considered. But that isnt in question here. 
overall
Having considered the points made  by Mr R, Im not persuaded to change my provisional 
finding that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I appreciate  that this will have a significant 
and serious impact on D but that doesnt mean  it would be fair and reasonable to make SOL 
offer cover to it in this instance. Im satisfied that a condition precedent to cover  exists, the 
situation and circumstances of which arent caught by the Regulations prohibiting  such 
clauses, and that Ds agreement with K, which was still in force  during the period of policy  
cover, and in terms of the claim in question made  against D and several  others, breached 
that condition.  In those circumstances I cant fairly and reasonably  require SOL to offer 
indemnity to D.
D doesnt have  to accept my final decision. It is free to reject it and seek  any other form of 
redress that may be open to it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3198720