K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I sent Mr H and FICL a provisional decision on 14 August 2019 to explain why I intended to 
uphold the complaint. An extract  from my provisional  decision is set out below:
Mr H told us that he was working  as managing director for a limited company at the time of 
the sale. And the available information  for that company  shows  that he was a director at the 
time.
FICL hasnt  been  able to send us a copy of the terms and conditions for Mr Hs policy. But 
the terms and conditions of similar  policies from around the time show that controlling  
company directors, or anyone managing  any part of the day to day running  of a business,  
are treated  as self-employed. As Mr H was one of only two directors at the time, and he says 
his title was managing director, I think its likely  he would have been treated  as self-
employed.
The terms and conditions  we have available also say unemployment benefit will be paid for 
self-employed people  if they have stopped trading and their business  is being or has been 
wound up. I think the standard  these terms require self-employed people to meet  in order  to 
claim unemployment benefit is higher than they might expect, particularly in comparison to 
employed people.
FICL had to give Mr H clear information about  the PPI during the sale.  And, as these terms 
were onerous, I think FICL should  have specifically highlighted them. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest these terms were  made  clear to Mr H during the sale.
If these terms  had been made clear to Mr H, I dont think  hed have chosen to take the policy 
as it wouldve been relatively difficult for him to claim for unemployment benefit. And so I 
think Mr H has lost out as a result of what FICL  did wrong.
I set out what I intended to require FICL  to do to put things right and said Id consider 
anything further  Mr H and FICL sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Neither Mr H nor FICL  had anything further to add, so I see no reason  to change the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. And so I still think  this complaint should  be 
upheld, for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN36936122putting things right
FICL should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr H would  have  owed  when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr H owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr H what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3693612