K820x#14Complaint
Ms M complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance  Society Limited (Royal London) 
mis-advised her to transfer  benefits  from a preserved occupational pension  scheme to a 
Section 32 buy-out policy and is worse off as a result.
Background
Ms M paid into a defined  benefits occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) from September 
1985 until February 1990. Her employment was ended in 1990  because of ill health.  The 
OPSs trustees agreed to pay her an annual pension of £2,195 a year in monthly instalments 
from age 50. The pension would be reduced by £865 a year from the point she was eligible 
for her state pension.
In 1991 Ms M was advised by Royal London  to transfer her OPS to a section 32 buy-out  
plan. This was a pension  intended to receive transfers from OPSs and provided a 
guaranteed minimum  pension (GMP)  payable at the policy  retirement age.
In October  1994 the industry regulator at the time,  the Securities and Investment Board, set 
up an industrywide review of particular types  of pension business  that took place between 
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994.  Transfers from OPSs to section 32 pensions  had to be 
included in the review. This review process is generally known as the Pensions  Review.
Royal London contacted Ms M in 1999 and offered her a review of her pension which she 
accepted. The review indicated that the sale didnt meet  regulatory  requirements. The 
potential loss was calculated and in August 2000 Royal London  made Ms M an offer of 
compensation to increase the benefits  on her policy, which  Ms M accepted. The review of 
Ms Ms pension showed that her OPS  wouldve  provided benefits 18.86%  greater than those 
her section 32 pension  provided. Ms M accepted that offer in full and final settlement in 
respect of further claims about her transferred benefits.
Ms M complained to Royal London via a claims management company in 2018, but for the 
purposes of my decision Ill simply refer to comments and responses as being from Ms M. 
The basis  of her complaint was that the advice to transfer wasnt suitable for the following 
reasons:
Ms M wasnt  properly informed of the risks in giving up the guarantees that her OPS  
provided;
She lost the protected retirement age of 50 when she transferred her pension; and
She incurred unnecessary management costs for her pension plan that she didnt 
know about.
Royal London didnt  uphold Ms Ms complaint.  They were of the view that her pension had 
already been subject  to a review and redress paid in line with the industry  regulators  
guidance. They said that the offer of compensation in 2000 was conditional on Ms M 
agreeing not to pursue  any further claim against  Royal London for the sale of that pension.
Ms M disagreed with Royal Londons answer.  She states that the review that was done in 
2000 didnt consider the fact that her OPS provided a guaranteed  income  at 50 because  of 
her ill health retirement.  She brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that the redress calculation  from the 
review in 2000 didnt account for the early pension age on Ms Ms OPS. Our investigator  
Ref: DRN39721032recommended that Royal London re-calculate the redress - in line with the FSAs guidance 
at the time - to determine if Ms M was disadvantaged and, if so, to put that right.
Royal London agreed and recalculated what the redress wouldve been in August  2000 if it 
had been calculated using the pension values at age 50. The original loss in 2000 was 
calculated at 18.86% of the fund value. When the new pension age was used  the revised 
loss was calculated  at 169.91% of the fund value. Royal London  agreed  to update Ms Ms 
section 32 plan to reflect the value that would have been in the fund if the correct  redress 
had been applied in August 2000.  Ms Ms section 32 pension  had a guaranteed minimum 
pension (GMP). Royal London  explained that even with the uplift, the value of her pension 
fund wasnt enough  to meet the GMP. So Ms M wouldnt be able to take an annuity before 
60 unless her fund was large  enough  to meet the GMP requirement. Royal London offered 
£1000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays  in 
recalculating the redress.
Ms M didnt accept the redress  as being  fair. Ms M suggested that her section 32 plan 
should be uplifted but that she should  also be compensated for the missed  pension 
payments that she wouldve already had from age 50 if she hadnt  transferred. So the case  
was referred for an ombudsmans decision.  I issued a provisional decision allowing both 
parties to consider my view and respond or provide further evidence.  In that decision I didnt 
uphold Ms Ms complaint  for similar  reasons as our investigator.
Royal London have  provided no further  evidence for me to consider and have offered no 
further views  in response to my provisional decision.
Ms M has offered no additional evidence, but has responded re-iterating her existing  
concern that the redress hasnt put her back into the position that she would have been in 
and she cannot  access her benefits from age 50.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint was brought about  eighteen years after the pension review  took place and 
about 27 years after the event complained of. Ive noted that Royal  Londons response to 
Ms Ms complaint highlighted  that this complaint had potentially been made outside of the 
regulators time limits that allow us to consider complaints. Royal London engaged with our 
investigator in order  to try to resolve  this complaint  though.  And theyve since  given  me 
consent to consider this complaint. Ive been asked  to consider if Ms M was mis-sold her 
section 32 pension in 1991. In this case though,  her pension sale was already reviewed as 
part of the Pensions Review.  That already determined that the pension sale didnt comply 
with industry guidance. So its not necessary for me to decide if Ms M was mis-sold her 
policy as this was, in effect,  determined by the review.
The purpose of the Pensions Review was to pro-actively identify cases where  consumers 
werent treated  fairly and then try to put that right. The regulator  established the way that the 
review should be conducted. Of course,  in trying to put things right assumptions were made 
about things like future investment growth and future  annuity  rates.  These were set by the 
industry regulator. And Royal  London have shown that the review  was carried out and 
redress calculated in line with that regulator guidance. The redress offer was made in full 
and final settlement and intended to draw a close to the matter. I dont think it would  be fair 
Ref: DRN39721033to ask Royal London to revisit the calculations where  the assumptions made were correct.  
But Ive looked  at whether  there  were  errors  in the way the redress was worked out.
Ms M has provided  us with a copy of a letter  from the trustees of her OPS  that she was sent 
in July 1990. It explained that the trustees had agreed to pay her preserved  pension from the 
age of 50 on grounds of her ill health  that caused  her to leave that employment. The pension 
entitlement at 50 was £2,195 a year,  which  would  reduce by £865 a year from state pension 
age. This wasnt taken into consideration when the pension review was done. So Ive looked 
at how this has come about  and what  would be a fair way to put it right.
Royal London have  shown that they contacted Ms Ms OPS in June  1991  to find out her 
preserved benefits and transfer value. The preserved pension was calculated at the date of 
leaving as £393.20  a year, which they estimated would be £2,843.91 a year at the age of 60 
based on revaluation. The OPS offered a transfer  value of £1,665  in June 1991. Nothing in 
the transfer details from the OPS indicated that Ms Ms pension  was subject to an early 
retirement age. Royal London have provided correspondence from the time and I cant see 
any indication that they were  made  aware of the fact that Ms M had a preserved pension  she 
could take from age 50 by the OPS. 
Royal London have  shown us that the illustration of future returns, prepared  for Ms Ms 
pension transfer,  indicated a normal retirement age of 60 and a term to retirement  of 34 
years. And theyve  shown us a copy of Ms Ms policy schedule which also lists a normal 
retirement date at Ms Ms 60th birthday. It seems more likely than not, that Royal  London 
werent aware of Ms Ms entitlement to take a pension from her OPS at 50 when the transfer 
took place. I can see that the impact on Ms M is greater than was accounted  for in the 
pension review, but I cant say it was as a consequence of a failing in the advice  Royal 
London originally  provided if they didnt know about  the ill health provision.
Royal London have  provided the data that was used in calculating  the loss redress on 
Ms Ms pension transfer when they reviewed it in 2000. It was based  on the same 
information that they had on file for the pension transfer. So they used a retirement age of 60 
for the review rather than an age of 50. Ms M accepted  the outcome of the review.  She was 
sent a copy of the revised policy schedule reflecting the updated enhanced pension  on 
retirement. This showed Ms M that the retirement age of her pension was 60, and it doesnt 
seem that Ms M made Royal London  aware  that the retirement age was wrong at that time 
either.
Because I dont think that Royal London knew about  Ms Ms early  retirement  age I cant  say 
that the error  in the redress  calculation  was Royal Londons fault. So I cant say that Royal 
London knowingly  treated Ms M unfairly in the redress offer they made in 2000. It was as 
directed by the regulator at that time.
Our investigator pointed  out that the Financial Services Authority (FSA) published Pension 
Review Bulletin  Number  5 which is relevant in this case. Page 7 of this bulletin stated:
Either  as a result of monitoring visits or through their own internal audits, firms may 
become aware  of errors  in calculations completed  in the past. Firms  are expected to 
make good  the effects of such errors if they caused a material  shortfall in the redress  
offered to the investor
Ref: DRN39721034Although the way that the error has been identified in this case  is different, I think the same 
expectation of fairness  should apply. In relation to cases  where an offer of redress  had been 
accepted the bulletin  said:
Where an offer made in good faith as a result of a calculation which  is now found to 
contain an error has been accepted  by the investor, the recalculation to correct the 
error should be done using the same  effective date as the original calculation.;
And:
Where there is a material increase in redress following the recalculation,  this should 
be notified to the investor and appropriate  action  taken to bring the original redress  
offer into line with the revised calculation. For prospective loss cases, this will mean 
applying the increase in the redress percentage to the fund value (excluding the 
original top-up) at the time that the error is rectified
I think this is relevant in this case because Royal London made its redress offer in 2000 in 
good faith. It was based on the information that it had at the time. Its now more likely than 
not that an error was made  in the calculation though.  A retirement  date ten years earlier than 
the one they used will have had a significant  impact on the difference  between  the value of 
Ms Ms section 32 plan and the OPS benefits she gave  up. In fairness  to Ms M, now that the 
error is identified, it should be put right in the same way it wouldve been  when  redress  was 
originally calculated.
Royal London have  performed a recalculation  to correct the error. Because its a 
recalculation of what should have  happened in 2000  Royal  London used the same criteria 
that would  have been the case at the time.  I think this was right according to the approach 
set out by the FSA.  Royal  London  calculated the new losses to be 169.91%  of Ms Ms 
pension value in 2000. They have offered to update Ms Ms pension policy to reflect the 
revised redress calculation. 
This would mean that the original basic pension of £472.10 a year would be uplifted  to 
£1,274.25 a year. And the original transfer value of £1,665 shows as being £4,397.33. In 
updating the policy at the outset, Royal London  have confirmed that all bonuses and 
investment returns that were added to the original policy will be added to the augmented 
policy. This was illustrated  by calculating that on 26 December  2020 this redress would give 
the policy a value of £30,042.13, rather than its actual value of £11,242.90  on that date. 
Ms M has queried  whether this method of redress  is fair and accounts for the investment 
returns that could  have been  achieved  had the redress been correct originally. But I think 
Royal London have  demonstrated that this corrects the error of the original calculations  in a 
reasonable way. And does put Ms Ms policy in the same position  it would  have been  in if the 
information about her retirement age of 50 had been  known when the review was first 
carried out.
Ms M has pointed out that she would have had benefits from age 50 had she remained in 
the scheme. And that she doesnt think that the redress from the review in 2000 and the 
proposed augmentation account for that loss in income. The special provision with her OPS 
to take early benefits  was valuable. But as Ive already said wasnt  something that Royal  
London seem to have  been made  aware of. And had this been  highlighted at the time of the 
review of Ms Ms pension,  I believe  that the redress  calculated would have resulted in what 
Royal London are now offering  to do. She couldnt  have had her retirement age of 50 re-
Ref: DRN39721035instated. But based on the assumptions  for the review in 2000  set out by the FSA  this 
could have made it possible for her fund to have  grown at a rate that enabled her to match 
the benefits given up. But it would always have been contingent on the investment returns  in 
the future.  
I can understand Ms Ms disappointment with this outcome. And that in her current 
circumstances she would  like to be able to work  less. But for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I havent identified anything that Royal London did in the original review of Ms Ms 
pension that I think was unfair or unreasonable. 
I believe the pension  review was conducted  in good  faith and in line with the regulators 
guidance. And the offer of redress was accepted as a full and final offer. As Ive explained 
above, that the assumptions around future  growth  and annuity  rates  used in the review  may 
not in actual fact have  turned out to reflect what has happened since. But I cant  ask Royal 
London to revisit the pension review on the basis of that. Because  I dont think that Royal 
London did anything  deliberately wrong with the original review I cant direct that they do 
anything more than theyve agreed to do to put this right. Even  though the redress from the 
pension review may not have actually put Ms M back in the position  of being able to take a 
pension at age 50. 
Royal London have  acknowledged that the time it took them  to recalculate the redress was 
unreasonably long. They offered to pay Ms M £1,000 in compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by the delay.  As Im unable to uphold Ms Ms complaint I wont  be making any 
directions regarding compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Ms Ms complaint.
The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited  have made an offer to compensate 
Ms M for the error in the original pension review and the time taken to recalculate the 
redress. Ms M should contact Royal London  directly if she now wishes to accept this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3972103