K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained about not getting the advertised interest  on an account  with TSB 
Bank Plc.
background
Mrs M says that TSB has treated her unfairly  because it should have been paying her 5% 
interest on her account with it over some years. She says she doesnt understand why TSB 
keeps stopping paying her the interest  shes due.
TSB says its treated her fairly. It says this account has some obligations on the account 
holder in order to gain the 5% interest. These include paying a set amount into the account 
regularly, using internet banking  regularly  and going  paperless on statements and 
communications. It says Mrs M has complained  about this before and it has repeatedly told 
her the obligations  on Mrs M to get the 5% interest.
Mrs M complained to TSB and it said it treated her fairly. Mrs M says she disagrees. The 
adjudicator did not agree  with Mrs M. As Mrs M remains unhappy this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons:
Its clear from the evidence that TSB has repeatedly  told Mrs M what she needs  to do 
to get the 5% interest.  But its also clear that Mrs M hasnt  been  fulfilling  her side of 
the bargain in accessing her online banking or going paperless for some  time. This is 
supported by the fact that Mrs M has told this service she doesnt  like using her 
computer because  of her eyesight.
I think it likely if Mrs M was to fulfil her side of the bargain by regular payments, 
regularly accessing  her online banking and going paperless that shed have been 
receiving the 5% accordingly. I can see she has received it in the past. And I think  
whilst TSB runs this type of account  and when  Mrs M complies  with her side of the 
bargain then I think it likely  shell get the interest  rate she advertised.
It is for TSB to decide the interest  rates it pays and any requirements consumers 
need to fulfil to get such interest  rates for this is part of its commercial  decision 
making.
Having considered the evidence available I think TSB has kept Mrs M informed of its 
requirements upon her during this account  including the changes made. I also note 
that she has complained about  this previously and at that time TSB told her the 
requirements again. So I dont think TSB has treated her unfairly  here.
Mrs M has pointed  to some systems issues TSB has had. These lasted a significant  
amount of time-but they didnt  last anywhere near as long as she had to comply  with 
the timespan in which she had to log into her online banking. So I dont think this 
made a difference to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN38912692Mrs M she doesnt have time to log into her online banking regularly. Thats her 
choice. But if she doesnt log in to her banking  she isnt fulfilling her side of the 
bargain to get the interest. So TSB hasnt treated  her unfairly  by not paying it.
Mrs M has said shes struggling to log in now. TSB provides various means of talking 
to it and I think it likely that if she described  her problems  with logging in, TSB would 
be happy to try to help. 
Mrs M has also told this service  that she doesnt have an email address and doesnt 
have access to her internet banking. Im not persuaded this is the fault of TSB. And I 
can see our adjudicator has tried to help her on this matter. And as Ive said she can 
get TSB to talk to her about using its systems.
I dont think Mrs Ms comments  are persuasive. She hasnt been  able to point to any specific  
instances of failings by TSB. I cant see any significant mistake that TSB has made.  So all in 
all Im not persuaded she has been treated unfairly  by TSB in the circumstances. So, in 
short, this complaint does not succeed. 
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mrs M. I am empathetic  towards her situation. 
However TSB hasnt  done anything wrong here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank Plc. It has 
nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3891269