K821x#15complaint
Mrs F says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect  an account opened in a shop. 
The account  was originally taken out in a shop in 1996, but FICL has taken responsibility  for 
the sale of PPI, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs F took out in 1996.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint because I dont think  that FICL gave Mrs F enough 
information about the policies costs and potential benefits. If FICL had given clearer 
information about this, I dont  think that Mrs F wouldve  thought the policy  provided  good 
value, and I dont  think she wouldve taken it out. So I think that Mrs F has missed out 
because of something FICL did wrong.   
FICL say that the policy did provide good  benefit,  and was value for money. It said that the 
policy provided a benefit of 4%, or the minimum payment  whichever was the higher 
amount. It then gave  an example of how this would work.
Ive looked at this  but I dont think the figures  FICL have quoted are correct.  Ill explain 
why. 
The calculation in the example has assumed  that the minimum payment would be 20% of 
the statement  balance.  But looking  at Mrs Fs credit agreement, the minimum payment is 
actually 4.23% of the statement balance  providing Mrs F with an extra 0.23% of cover.
So this point  doesnt change my opinion.  And I still think the policy  provided poor value for 
Mrs F. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs F in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs F would have owed when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN34332892FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs F would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs F would have owed each  month without PPI  Mrs F 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs F paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mrs F 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her account. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs F what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs F a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3433289