K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1994 
alongside a further advance. Mr and Mrs M says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold 
them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
The PPI covered Mr M only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances  at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their loan. Mr and Mrs M have told us they werent  aware PPI had been 
added to their loan. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr and Mrs M applied  for 
their further  advance and PPI, but YBS has sent us a copy  of the available paperwork. 
Mr and Mrs M completed and signed  an application  separate to their application for the 
further advance  to take the policy. When Mr and Mrs M applied for the policy they had 
already been paying  their mortgage for some  time without PPI cover. Mr M also made  a 
sickness claim under the PPI. So I think they would have known they didnt have to take the 
PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why they may not remember 
this.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M and Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide 
if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr M chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had 
available to make  the repayments, which included generous sick pay, help from friends and 
family, and the ability to sell their home.  But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to 
Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay. And while Mr Ms 
friends and family would have wanted to help, their ability to would have been dependent  on 
their circumstances at the time, which could have changed. So I dont think  this offer of help 
could be relied  on. The PPI would  also have prevented Mr and Mrs M from having to sell 
their home.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Ref: DRN36700872YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3670087