K820x#14complaint
Mr V complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim under his motor  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr V was unhappy about paying his policy excess after having  an accident, and felt that AXA 
didnt handle  his repair claim properly. AXA said that his excess  was payable  regardless of 
who was at fault. But they accepted that their service had been poor and offered him £350  in 
compensation for that. Mr V didnt think that was enough.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought that 
AXA had recognised their poor service and that theyd offered fair and reasonable 
compensation for it. Mr V didnt agree and so his case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V is also unhappy about  AXAs decision on liability for the accident, but AXA have dealt 
with that as separate complaint so I dont comment  on it here.  
Mr V didnt want to have to pay the excess on his policy as he felt that the accident wasnt  
his fault. But I think that, as is the usual case with motor insurance policies, AXA Mr V does  
have to pay his agreed  excess to AXA on any claim, regardless of who is at fault. 
Mr V felt that the claims process  was confusing and stressful. He said as follows. There  were 
so many organisations involved  in it that he didnt  know who he was speaking  to, and they 
kept giving  him conflicting information.  He had to phone AXA about everything but they were 
difficult to get hold of, didnt  return his calls, and didnt give him the clarification he asked for. 
He felt that this delayed  the claim process and the repair to his car. He said that that they 
even delayed paying him the promised compensation, because  of an address mistake.  But 
after he raised that they promptly authorised it to be paid into his bank account instead. 
Its clear that there were some confusing elements about his claim. Mr V at first wanted to 
use a particular one of AXAs garages for his cars repair. But though  AXA agreed,  they later 
changed their mind because they said that garage didnt repair  Mr Vs type of car. So AXA 
instead referred Mr V to another  of their approved repairing garages.  That garage agreed to 
give Mr V a courtesy car but cancelled  at the last minute, which  Mr V said was very 
inconvenient. Mr V said he was so stressed  and frustrated with Mr Vs claims process that 
he decided to go direct  to a garage of his choice  for the repairs.  
But this meant that Mr V was no longer entitled  to a courtesy car under the policy.  AXAs 
agents then misunderstood his wishes and mistakenly referred his case to a different garage 
of theirs.  In the end, the repairs were done at the garage of Mr Vs choice and AXA paid for 
those.
The situation  was complicated more because  it appears that AXAs agents, who were  
managing the claim for AXA, recommended to Mr V that he enter into a credit hire 
agreement and gave  him a hire car. When Mr V understood  that this was a separate  
Ref: DRN31230272agreement from his claim with AXA, and could potentially cost him more,  he cancelled  the 
agreement. I can see that AXA did explain this to Mr V. 
Mr V he felt that AXA should be responsible  for this credit hire matter and for the confusion it 
had caused him. But AXAs agents  were only acting for AXA as managers of their claim.  
They were  not acting as AXAs agents  for any other matters. AXA hadnt asked them to offer 
Mr V any credit  hire arrangement or a hire car. So in offering Mr V a credit hire agreement, 
the agents werent acting for AXA. And so AXA isnt responsible for their actions about  that 
matter.  
I can see that the situation  overall  was confusing  for Mr V and his partner, and that it was 
very inconvenient to sort it out and establish what was happening, particularly when they 
were both unwell.  They  understandably found  it difficult to know  who was doing what and 
who was responsible for what. And I can see that it caused them some stress. But as Ive 
explained above, although AXA did make  mistakes,  I dont think that everything was AXAs 
fault. AXA accepted that Mr V had to spend a significant amount of time contacting them  to 
make sure they progressed his claim properly, and that there  was delay, miscommunication 
and inconvenience  for Mr V and his partner.  However, for the part that AXAs actions played 
in the overall situation, I think that the compensation of £350  that they offered and paid is 
fair. And so in all the circumstances, I wont be asking AXA to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3123027