K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  with two loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the first policy in 1995  at the same time as taking out a loan. Due to the 
time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs E applied for their loan and PPI policy. 
Mr and Mrs E took out the second policy in 1998 and again, due to the time that has passed, 
its not clear how they applied  for their loan and PPI policy  albeit Nationwide  has evidence  
that a phone call was involved at some stage  in the process.  
While its perhaps unfortunate that the method of sale can no longer be determined,  it is not 
important to the overall outcome of this complaint.
The first policy was a regular premium policy, which cost around  £16 a month.  This policy  
didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either party  upon  giving the relevant amount  
of notice and without penalty.
The second  policy  was different - its one-off upfront premium of £1806.17  was paid in 
advance by being added to the loan (a single premium) where  it attracted interest over the 
term of the loan. The loan was repayable over a 60-month term and the policy term matched 
that of the loan. The monthly loan repayment was £222.97 with the PPI costing an additional 
£41.09 making  the total monthly repayment £264.06. 
Both policies  provided cover for Mr E only for accident, sickness,  unemployment  and life 
(Mrs E was covered for life only for the first policy as the joint loan applicant)  subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. Both offered to repay Mr and Mrs Es monthly  loan repayment  for 
up to the remaining term in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the 
event of unemployment. 
Mr Es circumstances were broadly the same  for both sales.  He was employed as a 
Warehouse man (albeit with two different employers) and he told us he was entitled to six 
months sick pay and some redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs E didnt have any other  means of 
repaying their loans should  Mr E be unable to work. Mr E said he was in good health at the 
time of the sales. 
NBS sent us evidence to show that the 1995  loan account closed in 1996 (this was repaid 
with another loan, but it didnt have  PPI attached so it doesnt form part of this decision.) And 
the 1998 loan account closed in 2002.
Mr and Mrs Es representative made  lengthy and substantial representations  on their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  said for both sales:
Ref: DRN36800232NBS failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs Es representatives 
believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  NBS should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr and Mrs E and the impact 
they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
I issued my provisional decision of April 2021 in which I said I was likely to not uphold the 
complaint and I invited  both parties  to let me have  anything  in response before I issued my 
final decision.
Both parties  said they had nothing further  to add.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. 
I dont intend to set that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account  in deciding  Mr 
and Mrs Es complaint
Ref: DRN36800233Both sales took place  before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published  its 
code of practice in June  2000 and before the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the GISC  code, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreements themselves concluded in 1996 and 2002 respectively. That means  
the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer  Credit  Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable in either  case.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the times in question, which Im 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN36800234Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies were appropriate  or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
-Whether NBS gave  Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them  to make  an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions of the policies  and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and Mrs E, 
I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mr and Mrs E suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E and 
NBS, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies were optional. 
For the 1995 sale, NBS no longer has a copy of the credit agreement. And this isnt 
surprising given how long-ago things happened. But it has provided  an example agreement, 
which it says likely  represents  what Mr and Mrs E wouldve seen and been asked to sign. 
Looking at this I can see the agreement refers  to PPI as Optional Credit Insurance  and 
gives the cost of the cover in a separate  box from the main  loan amount. On the basis  that 
Ive not seen anything to persuade me otherwise, I think this does likely  represent what Mr 
and Mrs E saw when they took out their loan and PPI.
For the 1998 loan NBS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Es actual  loan agreement. And 
this shows that the cost of the PPI was set out in a separate column from the main  loan 
amount also under the heading Optional  Credit Insurance.   And Mr and Mrs E signed  the 
overall agreement.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs E knew  each policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take each one out without undue  pressure.  
did NBS provide advice?
Both NBS and Mr and Mrs E agree that advice wasnt  provided  during either sale. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information each time to enable Mr and 
Mrs E to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions.
the information
Ref: DRN36800235Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E were given a broad  description of 
what each policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs E was unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have taken out 
either policy without  any sense of what it was. And I think Mr and Mrs E knew  the monthly  
cost of the first policy and all the cost information for the second policy i.e. that the single 
premium being added to the loan was £1806.17, the interest added to the premium  was 
£659.23, the total cost was £2465.40 and the monthly  cost was £41.09 (as this information  
was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on both the loan agreements  Mr and Mrs E signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of each sale doesnt  tell us whether NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs E agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and the significant limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Es. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative  considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that NBS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did NBS shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN36800236Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold both policies to Mr and 
Mrs E. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs E suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs E would have still taken out the policies, had NBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs E say they would not have taken them out and believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Both sales were carried out on a non-advised basis, so each  time Mr and Mrs E had to 
weigh up in their own minds the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the 
potential consequences  if they didnt insure against  the risk of being  unable  to work. This is a 
particularly important point in relation to the second  sale and why I intend  to reach a different 
overall conclusion  to the adjudicator - it was not Nationwides responsibility to assess  the 
affordability of the policy. It was for Nationwide to give Mr and Mrs E enough information so 
they could make that decision  themselves.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs E chose to take out each policy. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But on each  occasion they made  this decision based  on incomplete information.  
So what  Mr and Mrs E thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to 
which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs E has suffered 
any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs E were given about the cost was clear.  In 
the first sale this was simply the monthly cost because it was a regular premium policy.  And 
for the second  sale this was the upfront premium, the interest charged on that premium,  the 
total cost as well as the additional monthly cost.
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
In addition Im not persuaded  NBS made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs E would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  
But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Es expectations about what  each policy  would pay in the 
event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their loan payments) were significantly 
different to what each  policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the same for both policies as follows:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr E knew about  or ought 
to have known  about on the start date of the policy, or any medical condition he 
received treatment or advice for during  the 12 months  before the start date and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date; and 
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr and 
Mrs E wasnt a permanent employee.
Ref: DRN36800237I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs E pause for thought on both occasions  and may well have caused 
them to conclude that the policy wasnt as good  as they thought  and they might have 
decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other 
shortcomings in the sales, might  have dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of each sale shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr E was eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
useful to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr E wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr E 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and he was in permanent employment. So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs E would have expected to make a disability  claim on the policy without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr E needed  to be unable to do any work as certified by a doctor. 
I dont think this is likely to be too different, if any different to what  Mr and Mrs E would have 
expected to make a claim. 
The second  single premium policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so 
the policy provided flexibility if Mr and Mrs E decided to repay the loan early  and cancel the 
policy, which I understand they did.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy with both loan sales.  The policies 
were sufficiently close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  were Mr E made redundant, or unable  to work 
through disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales processes. In those  circumstances,  DISP App 3 says it should  
be presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN36800238Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Es circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs E found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI on both occasions had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading  information 
about the policy they were buying
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would  put them in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think NBS misrepresented  the terms of the policies in how 
it described the PPI. Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1995  and 1998 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find NBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs E and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  intend  to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN36800239Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3680023