K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that she was supplied a faulty  car by FirstRand Bank  Limited t/a
Motonovo Finance (Motonovo).
Miss M would like a refund for the repairs she had carried out and to be compensated for a
mileage discrepancy on the cars history.
background 
Miss M entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Motonovo  for 61 months in August 2017
for a used car which  was five years  old.
In July 2018, Miss M complained to Motonovo as she had been experiencing problems with
the clutch. Due to the fact that more than six months had passed since  the point  of supply,
Motonovo told Miss M that they wouldnt be able to uphold her claim unless  she obtained an
independent report  stating that the faults  were  present at the point of supply.
A specialist  report was provided, which indicated that the fault was due to operational wear
and driving style. Because of this, it was decided that the faults were not present at the point
of supply.
Miss M also complained that there had been  some  discrepancies with the cars  mileage. At
the point of supply the mileage was 39,268, however, Miss M had reports  from previous
services which  showed  the following discrepancies with the mileage in July 2017  and
August 2017:
05-Aug-2016  - 26,117 miles
18-Aug-2016  - 26,118 miles
07-Jul-2017 - 61,621  miles
11-Aug-2017  - 63,175 miles
03-JuI-2018 - 48,400  miles

Motonovo contacted those who had serviced the car previously and they thought the most
plausible explanation for the discrepancies was that the mileage had been input in 
kilometres at times  rather than miles. However  they could not be certain. When  they 
recalculated the mileage  they were given  the following results:
05-Aug-2016  - 26,117 miles
18-Aug-2016  - 26,118 miles
07-Jul-2017 - 38,289  miles
11-Aug-2017  - 39,255 miles
03-Jul-2018 - 48,400  miles
As this showed what appeared  to be a normal and steadily increasing mileage, Motonovo
were happy  there had been no error.
Miss M also complained that there was a nail in her tyre, and she believed this had been
there at the point  of supply. She was able to provide a car health check which  confirmed the
presence of the nail. The check was carried out in July 2018,  around 11 months after the
point of supply.
Our case handler looked into Miss Ms concerns. She thought that the faults listed  by Miss M
Ref: DRN32760002wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. She explained that the independent report
showed the faults with the clutch were  due to wear and tear and also driving style, meaning
she was of the opinion they wouldnt have been  present  at the point  of supply.
Our case handler also felt the mileage issue had been resolved, as after converting the
incorrect numbers from kilometres to miles, there was a natural progression which didnt
suggest any error.
And in relation to the nail in the tyre, our case handler said due to the amount of time that
had passed, damage would  have  been  caused  sooner if the nail had been there at the point
of supply. Therefore,  she didnt uphold the complaint and didnt ask Motonovo to do 
anything. Miss M did not agree with this. She said she strongly believed she was sold a car 
with a faulty clutch and so the complaint has been passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Motonovo supplied Miss M with goods under a hire purchase agreement. So they will be
responsible for the quality of those  goods and how they were described  at the point of
supply.
In order to decide if it is fair and reasonable for Motonovo to put things right, I have taken
into account the relevant law. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) confirms  that at the
time of supply, goods must be of satisfactory  quality, fit for purpose  and as described. So I
have considered whether or not the evidence suggests to me that Miss Ms car was of
satisfactory quality at the time she took out the hire purchase agreement. And whether  the
description of the goods (specifically  the mileage) was incorrect.
Im sorry  to hear that Miss M experienced problems with the car  which  meant that she had
to pay out for repairs. But just because something has gone  wrong  doesnt  mean  the car
was not of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Motonovo supplied Miss M with a car that was five years old and had travelled 39,268  miles
when it was supplied.  And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had
been supplied  new.
So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts  of the car might
have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair
and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
The independent report provided comments on the car clutch  and said:
It appears that the DMF has failed internally causing excessive movement  allowing  the
securing bolt heads to become damaged and the metal swarf has contaminated the clutch
switch sensor.
Based on the recorded mileage of the vehicle the DMF has failed due to operational wear
however, driving  style is also a contributing factor to the failure seen.
Ref: DRN32760003These findings appear plausible  considering the age and mileage of the car at the point of
supply, and the fact that Miss M had also been able to drive the car for around 9,100 miles
before the first of these  problems  started.  Overall, I am persuaded the damage was likely
caused due to generally expected wear  and tear (factoring in driving style) rather  an inherent
fault.
In relation to the nail in Miss Ms tyre  I have seen the health check report that was carried
out at the same time as the repairs. And I can see the report  confirms there was a nail in the
tyre and that it needed replacing. I have  also seen the MOT  from July 2016 which confirmed
a nail was present  in the same tyre. Even though  the nail was in the tyre at the time Miss M
acquired the car, Im not persuaded  this means  the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the
point of supply.  I say this because  given  the time that had passed, and the mileage  Miss M
was able to do even with the nail in the tyre it didnt seem to be causing an issue  at the time
 Miss M was still able to drive the car for around  9,100 miles before the tyre was replaced.
In addition to this, a nail in the tyre wouldnt have necessarily resulted  in the car failing the
MOT and it is often  considered an advisory if the tyre can be repaired.
All things  considered, and for the reasons I have explained, I am not persuaded the car had
faults which made it of unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply. So, I wont  be asking
Motonovo to reimburse Miss M for any of the repairs shes  had carried  out.
Ive then gone on to think about whether the incorrect recorded  mileage for July 2017 and
August 2017 means the car wasnt as described.
Firstly, I can see there is a clear discrepancy  on the HPI register and MOT history.
Motonovos internal  notes  show they contacted the dealership  who supplied Miss M with the
car and also the garage who carried out Miss Ms MOT to find out why there  was a 
discrepancy. The garage who carried out an MOT on the car in July 2017 said they couldnt 
be sure how the discrepancy  had occurred. However, they thought  it was likely that they had
recorded the mileage in kilometres rather than miles.
The dealership werent able to tell us who carried out the MOT before Miss M acquired the
car and they said they had no evidence the mileage was recorded in kilometres. However,
after converting the mileage into miles, the dealership  felt the most plausible  explanation
was that the mileage had been incorrectly recorded  in kilometres on the MOT  history.
Its not clear why two different garages have made, what appears to be, an error. It seems
less likely that the car had travelled around  35,500 miles in the space of a year (which would
be the case if I accepted the current entries  as accurate).
Motonovo have  attempted to get the mileage corrected by seeing if it can be amended on
the HPI register. Motonovo also contacted the government driving agency who werent  able
to make any amendments without further evidence. Motonovo were able to find the garage
who carried out Miss Ms MOT and attempted to contact  them  to see what evidence can be
provided. But Motonovo say they havent  been successful in getting an answer from them.
I appreciate Motonovo have said that they dont wish to accept liability  for the discrepancy
issue. However, when  considering whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, I also have to think
about the description of the goods,  which includes the cars mileage history, at the time the
car was supplied to Miss M by Motonovo.
Ref: DRN32760004I dont think a reasonable person would  expect a car to be supplied with mileage
discrepancies like this in its history without  a fair explanation.  And I think having a car with a
defective mileage  history could cause  Miss M issues in the future - for example, if she then
decided to sell her car in the future, its likely a new buyer will question the mileage history or
if she decided to part exchange the car I think there would  be questions  raised  over the
mileage. Miss Ms car also appears  to have an electronic odometer  which  records  the
mileage in miles. As its electronic, I dont think its likely the car was previously  displaying
the mileage in kilometres. Therefore, there  doesnt  seem to be a reasonable explanation for
whats happened here.
Whilst I cant say for certain exactly  what issues Miss M may face in the future, on balance,  I
think a discrepancy in the mileage is likely  to affect  Miss M in one way or another. And as
Motonovo have  been unable to rectify this issue, Im intending to say that Miss M should be
allowed to reject the car. However, I think its fair for Miss M to pay for the usage she had of
the car. And I think her monthly repayments  are a fair reflection of the usage .
I can understand why the discrepancy in the mileage history is of a concern and worry to
Miss M, so I think Motonovo should compensate  her £100 for the distress  caused.
Motonovo didnt  provide me with anything new to consider.  Miss M responded to my 
provisional decision. She explained that the car is semi-automatic and as she drives long 
journeys, Miss M says she doesnt change gears that often. Therefore, she strongly believes 
that the car was sold with a faulty clutch. Miss M says she doesnt  think the dealer carried 
out the right amount of checks on the car before  she acquired it. And had they done  so, they 
wouldve seen the clutch was faulty.  Miss M also says that her car odometer has never 
displayed in kilometres and thinks it could have potentially been tampered with.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss M has said in response to my provisional decision.  As I 
explained, Im satisfied based on the evidence in the independent  report provided by 
Motonovo and taking  into consideration  the age and mileage of the car at the point of supply, 
as well as the significant mileage covered by Miss M, that the issue with the clutch was likely 
caused to wear and tear. I understand Miss M says as the car is a semi-automatic and as 
she drives long distances, she doesnt change  the gears often.  However, as the independent 
report has suggested as well as being down to wear and tear, that driving  style could be a 
contributing factor to the fault with the clutch. And I dont think  Miss M wouldve been able to 
drive 9,000  miles if the car (and specifically the clutch) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I appreciate Miss M says she was asked by the dealership to prove the fault with the clutch 
was inherent at the point of supply. But that she was unable to get an independent 
inspection carried out as the two companies  provided by the dealership  dont deal with a car 
more than six months after purchase. 
However, I dont see this as a reason  to change my original decision for the reasons Ive 
explained. And I havent seen anything which persuades me that the fault with the clutch 
was inherent at the point of supply. 
Ref: DRN32760005Miss M reiterated that she has some concerns over the mileage being recorded  in kilometres 
and the discrepancies  showing  in the cars mileage history. I explained in my provisional 
decision why I didnt  consider it to be satisfactory that there  were  two discrepancies in the 
mileage history. And it was for this reason that I thought  Miss M should be allowed to reject  
the car.
Im unable to comment on why the dealer  is unable  to establish who carried  out the MOT on 
Miss Ms car before  she acquired  it. However,  I dont  think  that makes  a difference  to the 
outcome of this complaint. My decision remains  that Miss M should be allowed to reject the 
car for the same reasons set out in the provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint in part against  
FirstRand Bank Limited t/a Motonovo  Finance  and I require  them  to:
End the hire purchase agreement with nothing  further to pay.
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Miss M.
Remove any adverse  data from Miss Ms credit  file.
Pay Miss M £100 for the distress  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3276000