K821x#15complaint
Miss O complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in 2001. She says she doesnt think she 
ever agreed to having the PPI.
background
I can see Miss O has already been  paid some money, for the commission Barclays got from 
the sale. But Barclays didnt agree  that it had mis-sold the policy  in the first place, whereas 
Miss O still thinks it did. 
Our adjudicator looked at the evidence and said Miss Os complaint mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  But Barclays  still didnt  agree with this and the complaint has been passed  
to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Os complaint in full.
Ive been sent Miss Os original Barclaycard application form from 2001. Ive looked at this 
and can see she didnt  agree to buy any PPI at that time. Although there was an option on 
the form to ask for PPI, Miss O didnt  tick the box.
Barclays confirms this and says the PPI policy was added to her account a couple  of weeks  
later during  a phone call of some sort. But it cant  say whether it phoned  her, or the other 
way around.
So its clear to me that Miss O didnt want any PPI when she applied for her credit card and it 
was added a short time after this. However,  Barclays cant  show me anything  that confirms  
or suggests Miss O agreed to this sudden change of mind.  And looking at Miss Os situation 
of that time, I find it quite  unlikely that she didnt  want any PPI when she filled out her 
application  but did shortly after. 
Barclays sent me a number of documents about the rules governing  the selling of PPI and 
some details about Miss Os account.  
Whilst Im grateful for these, they dont add anything to this particular  case. What  Ive seen 
strongly shows that Miss O didnt  want any PPI. Barclays  hasnt  got any evidence to make  
me think she changed her mind  between the short period  of her applying  for the card and 
supposedly speaking  to Barclays on the phone. So Ive decided its more  likely than not, that 
Miss O didnt  give her consent to this policy being  added to her card. 
I therefore dont  need to explain anything  else. Providers of policies like this are required to 
get the agreement and consent of consumers during these sales.  Barclays cant  show me it 
did this.
Ref: DRN34457972It follows that Im upholding Miss Os complaint.
fair compensation
Barclays should put Miss O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much  Miss O would owe on her credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it. It should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums.  It should also remove any charges  that were  
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between  what  Miss O owes  and what she 
would have owed. If Miss O made a successful  claim  under the PPI policy,  Barclays  
can take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes her. It can also take of 
the money its already  given her for the commission it received from the sale.
B. If when  Barclays works  out what Miss O would  have owed each  month without PPI  
Miss O paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, Barclays  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss O paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss O wouldve owed  Barclays something  on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Miss O what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Miss 
O a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Os complaint against  Barclays Bank  UK PLC and require it to pay the 
compensation set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3445797