K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about a defective  sofa he bought  on credit provided by Caversham Finance 
Limited, trading  as Brighthouse.
background
In June 2017 Mr H bought  two leather sofas under separate  hire purchase agreements with 
Brighthouse. One sofa was a two-seater and the other was a three-seater.  In December 
2017 he reported a scratch or tear one inch long on a back cushion  of the two-seater. 
Brighthouse sent a technician round to deal with this, but this did not resolve  the matter.  
There is a dispute  about what conclusion the technician reached  about how this damage 
was caused. Mr H says the technician told him it was a manufacturing fault, but Brighthouse 
denies this, relying  instead on the technicians written report.
It is not in dispute  that between December and July 2018 there were failings in service  and 
communication. As a result, nothing much happened  until July, when Brighthouse attempted  
to deliver a replacement  sofa of the same type. Mr H did not accept that replacement,  
because it was already  damaged when it arrived. That is not in dispute. Mr H then 
complained to our Service.
Brighthouses position is that it is not liable for the damage to the sofa,  because  it is not a 
manufacturing fault, and Mr H does not have an insurance policy with Brighthouse. However, 
it has since offered to replace the sofa with another one which  matches the same style and 
colour. Since  it has no two-seater sofas left, it has offered another  three-seater,  at a discount 
of £300 off the usual price. Mr H is willing to accept a three-seater in principle,  but he is not 
willing to pay for one, because even with the discount it will still cost him about  £1,400,  after 
having already  paid the full price  for the original two-seater.
Our adjudicator thought that was a fair offer. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  He 
asked for the two-seater  to be replaced with the three-seater  for no extra charge.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brighthouse is only liable for a fault with the sofa which was present or developing  when it 
was sold. It isnt liable for any subsequent damage not arising from such  a fault.
Mr H insists that the technician who inspected the sofa in December 2017 told him that the 
damage was the manufacturers fault.  However, Brighthouse says that the technicians 
report says that the tear was Mr Hs fault.
I have read the technicians report.  It identifies  two faults, each described in a separate  box. 
The second  box describes a scratch on lhf isb cover. The technician  has recorded  this as 
Customer fault. I cannot  hold Brighthouse liable  for this.
However, the first box is headed Manufacturer Fault. The fault is described  as a crack in 
the leather. That evidence is not in dispute. So Brighthouse is clearly  liable for that issue.
Ref: DRN35011282Under section 9 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, it is an implied term of a hire purchase 
agreement that the goods  hired will be free from minor defects. I think  the crack in the 
leather is a minor  defect.
The technician offered to repair the scratch, but he did not attempt to repair the crack in the 
leather, so I infer that this could  not be repaired.  So the remedy which the parties agreed to 
was, as I have said,  to replace the sofa with another one of the same kind. That engaged 
section 23 of the Act, which  says that Brighthouse must do so within  a reasonable time and 
without significant  inconvenience to the consumer.  It took Brighthouse seven months  to 
arrange this, and that is clearly not a reasonable time. Furthermore, when  the replacement  
finally arrived, it was also damaged. So section 23 was not complied  with.
The consequence of that is that under  section  24, Mr H was entitled  to reject the sofa and 
get a refund.  However, that would not satisfactorily resolve his complaint, because  the sofa 
was part of a matching  suite. He doesnt want two mis-matched sofas,  and that is 
understandable. So I have considered Brighthouses  alternative offer to replace the two-
seater sofa with another three-seater  of the same  make and colour instead.
Brighthouse hasnt  offered  to do that for free. It has offered to sell the new sofa to Mr H 
under another hire purchase agreement, and to reduce the price of the sofa by £300.  In the 
absence of any fault for which  Brighthouse  was liable, that offer would have been generous, 
and more than it was required to do (which would  have  been nothing). However, since 
Brighthouse is liable for the crack  in the leather, and it failed to put this right under section 
23, I dont think  its offer goes far enough.  It still saddles Mr H with a bill for hundreds of 
pounds  or £1,404, to be exact, if he pays for it over three  years   on top of what  he has 
already paid for the defective sofa. That wouldnt be fair.
I think that a fair resolution to this complaint  would  be for Brighthouse to collect  the two-
seater sofa and replace it with an undamaged three-seater at no cost to Mr H, and so that is 
what I currently propose to order it to do.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties   I intend  to order Caversham Finance Limited to 
replace Mr Hs two-seater sofa with a three-seater sofa of the same  make and colour, at no 
cost to him.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.  But Brighthouse did not. It was curious  about the two 
boxes in the technicians report, because the other reports Brighthouse  had seen from the 
technicians company (a third party) had only had one box: two is unusual. Brighthouse also 
noticed that the first box, the one describing the crack in the leather as a manufacturer fault, 
was incomplete  not all of the details had been filled in. So Brighthouse asked the company 
to confirm that this was correct.
I have seen the companys reply to Brighthouse. It said that the first box had been added  in 
error. It hadnt been possible  to delete  it, so instead the technician had just left the rest of the 
box empty  (except  for adding the letter U in the next two fields,  because it wasnt  possible 
to leave a field completely  empty) and then started a new box.
Ref: DRN35011283So in fact there was only one fault with the sofa,  not two. That fault is the one described  in 
the second box as Customer  fault.  So it follows that I am not able to uphold this complaint 
after all. I regret that this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr H.
Brighthouse has said that it will still honour  its offer to sell Mr H a new sofa at a discount of 
£300. I will leave it to Mr H to decide  whether to accept that or not.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.  But if we do not hear from him, then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501128