K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the way in which Zurich Insurance Plc has handled his claim 
under his home insurance policy for subsidence damage.
background
In or about 1998, Mr S made a claim for subsidence damage to his house. Over the 
subsequent years, Zurich arranged for various  inspections, investigations and repairs. Mr S 
became unhappy  on several occasions  and raised complaints about delays and other 
failings. Zurich agreed to pay compensation for these matters.  Up until the end of 2013, this 
compensation amounted to £2,000.
In 2015, Mr S complained to us about Zurichs handling of the claim.
In March 2016, an ombudsman issued a final decision upholding the complaint.  She 
requested that Zurich  provide Mr S with a list of three suitably qualified  engineers  from which 
he could choose  one who would be appointed to advise on the future handling of the claim. 
She also requested  that Zurich pay Mr S £400  compensation  for its poor handling of the 
claim since the end of 2013.  Mr S didnt accept the ombudsmans  decision  and so it wasnt 
binding on Zurich.
Mr S asked Zurich instead to provide  him with a list of three independent  building surveyors  
who could project  manage  the claim.  Zurich  did so but Mr S was unhappy with each of these 
because they werent  sufficiently  local.  He suggested another surveyor  firm, which Ill call 
P, and Zurich agreed to this. 
After visiting the property, P arranged for various investigations and repairs to be 
undertaken. However, Mr S became unhappy  at Ps project management  of the claim.  He 
eventually complained to Zurich, raising  various issues. These  included:
He had lost faith in P and wanted them to be replaced by another surveyor. He also 
wanted a structural  engineer to be involved in the claim.
He didnt want his entire contents to be removed to storage by a particular removal  
firm, as proposed by P, and instead  wanted  a different removal firm to clear  his 
house in stages.
He didnt want to move out of his property and instead wanted to remain there 
throughout any repair work, not least so he could  stay close to his elderly mother who 
lived next door.
There were  inaccuracies in Ps drawings and measurements. 
P and previous contractors had failed to fix a problem with the tiles in his porch  which 
had meant his front door didnt fully open.
P and previous contractors had failed to address  the fact that he had no access 
through a side gate to the back  of his property.
P hadnt carried out proper repairs to the drains.
Ref: DRN34971882Zurich issued its final response to the complaint in August 2017. It commented as follows:
P had been  appointed at Mr Ss request. It was satisfied with Ps management  of the 
claim and considered that replacing  it with another firm would hold matters up. There 
was no need for a structural engineer  to be appointed; P could access appropriate 
advice if it thought it was needed.  
It wanted to instruct  a removal firm to remove Mr Ss items  to storage, thereby 
allowing P to fully assess the extent of damage  and draw up a detailed schedule  of 
repair.
Once repair work began at the property, it wanted Mr S to move  out, unless a 
solution could  be found to accommodate  both his and the contractors  needs.
While  some of the technical documents which P had produced  werent 100% 
accurate, this didnt  matter because P would  be able to complete a full review of the 
property once the contents were  cleared.
While  the front door didnt fully open,  there  had been  enough  space for people  to get 
in and out. Nonetheless, it understood  that this problem had now been resolved.
It apologised for the inconvenience caused  while the side gate was not in use but 
understood that this problem had now been  resolved.
It was satisfied that the drains  had been  correctly repaired and there were no signs 
that the property  was still subject  to movement.
In view of the inconvenience caused by delays in resolving the front door and side 
gate issues, it offered £100  compensation.
Mr S was unhappy at Zurichs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He considered 
that the claim had generally been handled  in a reasonable way and Zurichs response to the 
complaint had generally been fair. However,  he noted Zurichs failings in respect  of the front 
door and side gate issue, as well as certain other  concerns which  Mr S had raised 
concerning damage  to his garden plants,  mess  left after installation of a new toilet, and lack 
of notice before work was undertaken which necessitated the temporary loss of his bathroom 
and toilet facilities. In view of these,  he considered  Zurich should increase  its compensation  
by a further £200.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He re-stated all the things he thought P and 
Zurich had done wrong. He insisted he wouldnt move out from his property under any 
circumstances. He explained in detail how he thought the claim should be managed going 
forward.
Zurich also didnt accept  the investigators  findings. It considered  that the damage to Mr Ss 
garden plants was trivial; it disputed that its contractor left a mess  after installing the new 
toilet; and it said the surveyor  explained to him beforehand he would lose his bathroom  and 
toilet facilities for a few hours while investigative work was undertaken.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN34971883my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint  in 
part. I think the offer of compensation  should be increased as recommended  by the 
investigator. However, I consider  that in most respects Zurich  has generally handled the 
claim in an appropriate  way. 
Let me first of all clarify that Zurich has refused to allow this service  to consider events 
beyond the time it issued  its final response letter in August 2017. This means that in this 
decision I am considering  events only up until that date. If Mr S is unhappy  about  anything 
which has happened since August 2017, he will have to raise that with Zurich  in the first 
instance as a new complaint.
I shall deal with the various aspects of the complaint  under separate  headings.
continued involvement of P
P was appointed  at Mr Ss request. P is the sixth surveyor  to be involved in Mr Ss claim. 
Mr S says he has lost faith in P and wants  it to be replaced. I dont think this is reasonable. 
Im satisfied that P is generally managing the claim in an appropriate way (I deal with some  
of the specific points of concern under separate headings below). I consider that getting yet 
another surveyor to manage the claim is likely to delay things and wont  necessarily result in 
any significant change  in approach, which means  that Mr S would still be dissatisfied.
Mr S thinks  a structural engineer should be appointed. This is what  the ombudsman  
recommended in her decision  of March 2016  but Mr S rejected her opinion  and subsequently 
decided that a surveyor would be more appropriate.  P has said it has the expertise to 
manage the claim and Zurich has pointed out that P is able to call on other  expert advice if it 
feels this is necessary. I agree with this.
removal of Mr Ss contents
P is satisfied  that Mr Ss house is now stable. It therefore  wants to carry out a 
comprehensive assessment of the damage and draw up a detailed  schedule of repair. To do 
this, it says it needs to empty Mr Ss property of its contents. Zurich  has proposed using a 
particular removal firm. I consider this is reasonable.
Mr S doesnt  want this to happen. Instead,  he wants one room  of his property to be emptied 
at a time,  assessed  for damage and then re-stocked  before moving on to the next room  to 
repeat the process. He furthermore wants a different removal  firm to be used. However,  
Zurich says this would take longer and would be more  costly.
While I would expect an insurer to be flexible  up to a point, I agree with Zurich  that this would 
be imposing unnecessary costs. P was appointed as an independent project  manager  and I 
see no reason to depart from its recommendations as to how the claim should  be 
progressed. It isnt up to Mr S to manage the claim  or to decide  which  removal firm should 
be appointed.  I havent seen any evidence  to suggest that Zurichs preferred removal firm is 
unsuitable.
Ref: DRN34971884moving of Mr S to alternative accommodation
P wants Mr S to move  out of the property while repair work is undertaken. Zurich says he 
neednt vacate if a solution can be found which meets both Mr Ss and its contractors need 
but that it currently believes it would be a health and safety risk if he were to remain. It has 
assured Mr S it will pay for alternative  accommodation and do all that it can to help him stay 
as close as possible to his mother who lives next door. I consider this is reasonable.
Mr S is insistent  that he will not move out of his property under any circumstances. This is 
his choice. But in the absence of a workable solution which allows  the repair work to be 
undertaken without  placing undue risk on Mr S or undue restriction  on the contractor, Mr S is 
thereby choosing to prevent the claim from progressing. Ultimately, Zurich  cant  resolve the 
claim without  reasonable co-operation from Mr S.
technical accuracy of Ps documents  
 
Mr S has raised concerns over the accuracy of Ps documents. He thinks  this shows  it is not 
competent. P has acknowledged  the documents in question are not wholly accurate but says 
this doesnt matter at this stage and the inaccuracies will be corrected when it is able to 
properly assess the damage.  I think Ps response  is reasonable.  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the inaccuracies have made any material difference to the claim so far and thus 
I dont think this is a reasonable basis for claiming  that P is incompetent.
problems with front door
  
Mr S says that an issue with his porch  tiles meant his front door didnt open more  than 45. 
He had to put up with this for over three  years  until the problem was eventually rectified in 
March 2017. I recognise that Mr S was still able to get in and out through the door during this 
period but I nonetheless consider the restricted opening would have been inconvenient for 
him and I think Zurich should have resolved the problem sooner.
loss of use of side gate 
Similarly, Mr S says that the collapse of a trellis and ivy by the side of his house meant that 
he was blocked  from using his side gate for nearly  three years  until the problem was 
resolved in September 2016. During this period, he had to take bins through the interior  of 
his property. Again, I think this would have been  inconvenient for Mr S and Zurich  should 
have resolved the problem sooner.
drain repairs
Mr S says that P arranged for drains  at the side of the property to be repaired rather than 
replaced as had previously been  agreed by Zurich. That may be the case  but P was 
appointed to manage the claim going  forward so in my view it was up to P to determine what  
needed doing. It was satisfied that this was an appropriate way of dealing with the matter  
and there  is no evidence to suggest that it was wrong in this respect  or that the work is 
inadequate. P is satisfied that the house  is stable.  I see no reasonable grounds for saying  
that Zurich must re-do the works.
other issues   
Ref: DRN34971885Mr S has raised concerns over damage  to his garden plants, mess  left behind after the 
installation of a new toilet, and the lack of notice  given  to him that work was to be undertaken 
which would temporarily  deprive  him of sanitation  facilities. Zurich disputes that its 
contractors were materially at fault in these matters and thinks Mr S is exaggerating their 
significance.
It is difficult to know  whether Zurichs contractors were at fault in these matters.  The only 
evidence is a set of photographs provided by Zurich of the toilet  following its installation  and 
from them I can see no evidence of mess. Im not persuaded  that Mr S has shown  the 
damage to his garden plants was significant  (Zurich says that its contractors snapped back  a 
couple of stems to help them conduct a survey) or that the loss of his bathroom  and toilet 
facilities for a few hours was materially inconvenient given that, if absolutely necessary, he 
could presumably have  used the toilet in his mothers house  which  was next door and whom 
he says he looked  after.
compensation
  
While I dont think that Mr S has shown that the matters in the paragraph above are 
particularly significant,  it remains  the case that Zurich failed to address the issues with his 
front door and side gate for a period of years. While these issues  didnt necessarily  cause 
Mr S huge  inconvenience on a day-to-day  basis, Im sure he would have  preferred  them  to 
have been resolved. In view of the time period over which Mr S had to put up with these 
problems before they were eventually resolved, I consider that Zurich  should pay Mr S a 
further £200 on top of the compensation  of £100 it had already offered him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Zurich Insurance Plc to pay Mr S a further  £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3497188