K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank plc advised  him to take out a mortgage which  has proved 
to be unsuitable  for him. 
To resolve  his complaint  he wants Lloyds to compensate him as follows:  total payments to 
date in addition  to the payments to be made  to the end of the term. Then the full cost 
(£120,000) of the final payment. Deducted from this figure would be the cost of a repayment 
mortgage, which is what he should have been advised  to take. The difference of £33,065.40 
would be fair compensation.
background
In 2007 Mr M took an interest-only mortgage with Lloyds for a term of 17 years.  In July 2017 
he received a letter from Lloyds asking him to complete and return  a form showing how he 
intended to repay the loan at the end of the term.
He considers the form should have been  sent to him sooner than seven years before the 
end of the term so that he could evaluate his options.
When he looked through the documents he noticed  hed been offered a loan of £120,000 on 
a wage of £22,000 per annum. The Lloyds representative had said that this was 
manageable. However with hindsight a salary of £22,000 was never going to be enough  to 
pay off £120,000 in the time allowed.
Also the application  form said Mr Ms method of repayment  at the end of the term would  be 
by way of inheritance. This shouldnt have  been  acceptable to endorse the loan.  
The Lloyds representative had also informed him that house  prices would rise sufficiently to 
cover any shortfall. He was also advised to borrow extra money  to consolidate  existing 
loans.
He believes that he was given the wrong  advice, resulting  in a shortfall and an extremely  
stressful situation.
In its submission to this service Lloyds  said section 5 of the application confirmed that the 
mortgage was to operate on an interest-only basis  with an inheritance being used as the 
repayment vehicle  to repay the debt at the end of the term. Section 6 confirmed that the 
amount borrowed  was to repay the existing  mortgage with an additional amount to be used 
for home improvements. There was nothing to suggest that any of the borrowing was for 
debt consolidation. The declaration was signed by Mr M. 
The mortgage offer confirmed  that the mortgage was offered on a non-advised basis  and it 
was up to Mr M to decide if he wanted to accept the offer. Mr M signed the offer to accept 
the terms of the loan.
Lloyds said there was nothing to suggest  that the mortgage was mis-sold, and Mr M was 
fully aware of the terms of the loan he had requested.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr Ms complaint  be upheld. She said that in 2007 an 
inheritance would have been  an acceptable method of repayment.  Mr M had said he wasnt  
Ref: DRN30366732due an inheritance, but hed signed the application  form on 16 May 2007 confirming that all 
the details were correct.  
The mortgage was taken out on a non-advised basis, so no advice or recommendation was 
given by Lloyds.
Mr M had said the mortgage was unaffordable on his wages of £22,000  per year.  Lloyds had 
incorrectly included both his wages and his self employed income on the application form. 
This had incorrectly increased his total income  to £41,405, which  was much higher than it 
actually was.
Lloyds had provided to this service details of the information it received at the time of sale to 
check that the mortgage was affordable. This showed that it received Mr Ms payslip as 
evidence of his wages at the time.  It also received evidence from his accountant  to confirm 
his self-employed  income. Lloyds was entitled to rely on this information  at the time the 
mortgage was sold in 2007.
Mr M had also said he was advised  to borrow extra money to consolidate debts. However,  
the point of sale documentation made no reference  to any advice being given in relation to 
debt consolidation. The application  form said that £22,300 was being raised for home 
improvements. While the application form did mention  several loans, it didnt say that these 
would be repaid or consolidated into the mortgage.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked for his complaint  to progress to the next stage. He said he did 
receive advice from Lloyds and he was recommended and advised to take this mortgage. He 
didnt believe Lloyds  had correctly calculated his earnings or that enough checks  were  
carried out to confirm the information at the time.
Hed estimated his income  from self-employment in the previous financial year as £18,000 
and estimated income from self-employment for that financial year (06-07 tax year)  as 
£18,096. But when  presented with his payslip from the firm where he began employment  in 
the latter part of the 06-07 tax year (having  moved  from self-employment  to PAYE) Lloyds 
had multiplied his weekly wage of £429.02  by 52 weeks to give £22,309. He believed  Lloyds  
had added this onto the £18,096 self-employment  income to give a total income of £40,405.
But hed only started the paid employment  in January/February 2007 and would have had a 
maximum of 13 weeks pay in the 06-07 tax year. This would have given him a maximum of 
£5,577.26 income  through PAYE wages (13 weeks x £429.02 weekly pay). It was this 
£5,577.26 which should have been added onto the £18,096 self-employment income to give 
a total income  equating to £23,673.26 for the current tax year. Not £40,405, the basis  for 
such a high lending  amount. He didnt dispute that the annual  salary would have equated to 
£22,309 if applied  to 52 weeks. 
He said Lloyds would have had full access to the amount of the loans which  he was repaying 
at that time and he was very clear that he wanted to use these funds to pay off outstanding 
debts. He was advised  by Lloyds  that as he didnt  have  a repayment vehicle, he should use 
inheritance as the named  repayment method in order for the mortgage to proceed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN30366733Mr M has requested compensation to put him in the same position  as if he had taken a 
repayment mortgage. But the mortgage offer said that the mortgage was offered on a non-
advised basis. That is to say, Lloyds was acting  only as a lender  and not as an adviser. The 
offer said:
We have not recommended a particular mortgage  for you. You must make  your own choice  
whether to accept  this mortgage offer.
If Mr M had wanted advice about  his mortgage  application, he could have  approached  a 
broker or solicitor but he chose not to. I dont  think its fair in those circumstances to treat 
Lloyds as if it had been acting as his unpaid adviser.
If Lloyds had been advising Mr M, a detailed discussion would have taken place regarding 
his circumstances  and requirements, and a fact find would then have been completed  at the 
point of sale. Lloyds  would then have recommended a particular product based  on an 
assessment of Mr Ms circumstances and needs at the time. However, theres nothing to 
suggest such a discussion took place.
Lloyds assessment of Mr Ms earnings would be based on his annual salary, so calculating 
his earnings over 52 weeks was correct.  Based  on the information provided  on the payslips, 
Mr Ms annual  salary  at the time was around £22,000, which  was what  was recorded during 
the application.
In relation to the self-employed income,  Lloyds received Mr Ms accountants reference 
which confirmed the information provided  in the application regarding his self-employed 
income. 
Mr M confirmed on the application  form that he was part self-employed and part employed.  
So Lloyds used  the information  provided  about his self-employed  income  for the previous tax 
year, along  with his annual wages from his employment. It then obtained wage slips and 
confirmation from his accountant that the figures  were accurate. The example given by Mr M 
only relates to one particular year.
Therefore I agree  with the adjudicator  that Lloyds carried out sufficient checks regarding  
whether or not the mortgage was affordable, based on the information  provided to it at the 
time of the application.
Mr M also says Lloyds  would have had access to information about his debts and that he 
wanted to borrow  to pay them off. But this wasnt recorded in the documentation he signed. 
He may have intended to use the money  received to clear his debts. But theres nothing to 
show that this was discussed  with Lloyds at the time.
Mr M says Lloyds  actively recommended  the suitability of the mortgage and didnt show  him 
that a repayment  mortgage would be preferable. But the document  he signed says exactly  
the opposite. If he was relying on Lloyds for advice, he needed to say so at that point.
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Lloyds to request repayment details seven years before 
the end of the term. It wasnt obliged to do that anyway.
Ref: DRN30366734my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3036673