K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that First Rate Exchange Services Ltd wrongly told him to load his travel  
money card with US dollars  for use overseas.
background
Mr S wanted  to use his First Rate Exchange travel money card while travelling overseas. He 
was travelling to a country where  First Rate Exchange doesnt offer currency,  so it told him 
to load US dollars onto the card.
Mr S discovered the travel money card wasnt widely accepted in the country in question, so 
he had to withdraw cash. He incurred exchange  rate costs because  the money had to be 
converted from US dollars to sterling,  and then to local currency. Mr S said he also had to 
pay excessive cashpoint  fees because the amount  of cash he could withdraw in one 
transaction was limited.  He said the inconvenience caused had spoiled his overseas visit. 
First Rate Exchange accepted it may have given misleading information to Mr S. As a 
gesture of goodwill, it refunded £31.15 which it said covered the cost of converting  from US 
dollars to sterling.  It also offered £44.26 for cross  border fees Mr S had paid, and another 
£30 as a further  gesture of goodwill. Mr S didnt accept First Rate  Exchanges  offer.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She was satisfied that the 
refunds First Rate Exchange  had  made  were  reasonable, but that it didnt have to refund the 
cashpoint charges Mr S had paid. The investigator didnt think First Rate Exchanges 
goodwill offer was enough in light of the trouble and upset  Mr S had experienced. She said 
First Rate Exchange should pay £150 in addition to the refunds it had offered.
First Rate Exchange said it wasnt  willing to pay this level of compensation. Mr S said First 
Rate Exchange hadnt  properly  explained what hed been charged when his money was 
converted from US dollars to sterling,  and then to local currency.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Rate Exchange doesnt offer currency in the country Mr S was travelling to. Its 
accepted that it shouldve  told him to load his money travel card with sterling, as this is the 
most cost-efficient way to use the card.  The card should only incur  one exchange  rate 
charge when the money is converted from sterling  to local currency.
When Mr S arrived at the country  in question he discovered the card wasnt  accepted  as 
widely as hed expected. So he had to withdraw  cash, and incurred additional fees when  the 
money was converted from US dollars  to sterling,  and then to local currency.
First Rate Exchange doesnt think it should pay additional compensation to Mr S, because  it 
considers he couldve  easily  checked  how widely the card was accepted in the country  he 
was travelling to. 
But I dont agree. Mr S clearly had a discussion with First Rate Exchange about using the 
card in the area he was travelling to, which  resulted in US dollars being added  to the card.  I 
Ref: DRN30553862think its unlikely First Rate Exchange prompted  Mr S to specifically  check how widely  the 
card was accepted  before  he loaded it with currency. And I dont think its reasonable to 
have expected Mr S to have independently  carried out that check  before setting up the card. 
I think Mr S experienced an unreasonable level of inconvenience  because when he realised 
the card wasnt widely  accepted  he had the worry of paying additional  exchange rate costs 
to withdraw cash.  Given the nature of Mr Ss trip and the environment  he was travelling in, I 
can see that this would have been stressful. So I agree  with the investigator  that First Rate 
Exchange should  pay £150  to Mr S, in addition to the refunds it has made. 
Mr S wants  to properly understand First Rate Exchanges refund for exchange  rate 
conversion. 
First Rate Exchange has said that when Mr S withdrew cash, he wouldve had the option to 
complete the transaction based on sterling or local currency. Using sterling  is more  
expensive, because the local provider sets their own exchange rate.
Mr S says the ATMs he used didnt give an option  to use sterling or local currency. But First 
Rate Exchanges reply to his complaint  suggests  hes been charged  for completing the 
transactions in sterling. 
I note that the travel  cards terms and conditions say:
9 Transactions made in a currency not supported by your Card
9.1 If you make a transaction  in a currency other than a currency supported by your 
Card, the funds to complete the transaction will be automatically debited  from your 
Pounds Sterling  Wallet  at the most applicable conversion rate set by 
MasterCardThese rates are available  on our Website.
The travel card didnt support the currency that Mr S was withdrawing  from the cashpoints.
So there had to be a conversion  from sterling  to the local currency.  But I think this has been
covered by First Rate Exchanges cross  border refund  of £44.26.
Overall, from what Ive seen, Ive seen nothing to suggest that First Rate Exchange hasnt
covered the exchange rate costs Mr S paid as a result of having to use overseas cashpoints
more than hed anticipated. 
my final decision
My decision  is that First Rate  Exchange  Services Ltd should pay £150  to Mr S. This is in 
addition to the refund of £31.15 it has already paid. First Rate Exchange should also pay the 
£74.26 it had offered Mr S if it hasnt already  done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3055386