K821x#15complaint
Mr S says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to him payday  
loans.
background
This complaint is about 20 payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Mr S between  July 2011  
and October 2015.  Quick  Quid  objected to us looking at any loans taken more than six years 
before Mr S first complained to it. Mr S said hes happy for us to look at his loans after that 
period. So weve considered these  from loan eight onwards.  
These 13 loans ranged in size from £50 to £650,  excluding interest and charges. Mr S was 
to repay  them  in one, two or three monthly instalments. There was an 11 month gap 
between loans 10 and 11. But there were no other significant  breaks in Mr Ss borrowing. 
From what  I can see, Mr S repaid all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint in part and thought loans  8, 9 and 10 and the loans 
from 14 onwards shouldnt have been given. Quick Quid disagreed and it offered redress  for 
two loans and one top up and later a further  three  loans. But Mr S was unhappy with this and 
so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr S should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN37259472I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his/her  loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of 
Quick Quids lending  history with Mr S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have  realised  that it shouldnt  have provided 
any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  this point was reached by loan 8. I 
say this because:
By loan 8, Mr S had been  borrowing 15 times (including top ups) in 15 months. The 
amounts hed borrowed had increased. Loan  9 was smaller, but Mr S borrowed the 
larger loan 10 in the same month. I think this showed that Mr S was dependent  on short-
term loans. I think the pattern of lending showed that loans 8, 9 and 10 were 
unsustainable and it was wrong  for Quick Quid to have approved  them. 
Mr S had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Quick Quid over 
an extended period.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 8 to 10 and Quick  Quid  should  put things right.
There was then a gap of 11 months  in Mr Ss borrowing from Quick Quid. Loans 11 and 12 
were for £50 and then £100. Given the gap in the borrowing and the small amounts 
borrowed compared to Mr Ss stated monthly income (£1,100  for loan 11 and £1,850  for loan 
12), I think Quick Quids checks on the loans were proportionate. And I cant  say it was 
wrong to approve  these  two loans. 
Loan 13 was larger and taken shortly after loan 12 was repaid. From what  it knew  of Mr Ss 
history, I think Quick Quid should have made  better checks that Mr S could  afford the loan. I 
think it should then have looked at Mr Ss other short-term lending. But I think  this check  
would have shown  that the loan was affordable. So I think better checks  would have shown 
Quick Quid that this loan was affordable.
But, looking  at the overall pattern of Quick  Quids lending history with Mr S, I think  there was 
another point  at which Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  I think this was from loan 14 onwards. I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN37259473Mr S had now borrowed  4 times  in 8 months  and the amounts stayed about the same for 
these loans and the rest of his borrowing;
Mr S went on to borrow  a further 7 times  (including top ups) in the following 11 months 
with no significant  breaks in his borrowing.
This pattern of borrowing  shows that the loans were unsustainable for Mr S. And so I think 
Quick Quid shouldnt have approved  loans  14 to 20. 
I think that Mr S lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 to 
10 and from 14 to 20 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ss ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 8 to 10 and 14 to 20 including  all their 
top ups;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken between  loans 8 to 10 and from loan 14 onwards means  any 
information recorded about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 8 to 10 and 14 to 
20 should be removed  from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) to pay Mr S compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3725947