K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Society  of Lloyds has declined her home insurance claim for water 
damage to her downstairs WC. 
background
Mrs L arranged her home insurance  through a national financial provider. The policy,  though 
sold by that provider, was underwritten by Lloyds. Mrs L has had her policy since  2008  and 
it includes cover  for buildings and contents along  with additional home  emergency  cover.  
In May 2018, Mrs L made a claim under her policy  for damage caused by an escape  of 
water. She had discovered damage  to the ceiling of her downstairs WC which was situated 
directly below her en-suite  bathroom. Mrs L contacted her home emergency insurer  and it 
attended her home to carry out trace and access work to try and locate the source  of the 
leak. She also made a claim to Lloyds under her buildings cover.  
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to validate  the claim  and she visited  Mrs L. The loss 
adjuster was unable to diagnose the source  of the leak so was unable to confirm that the 
damage was covered  under the policy. She said that Lloyds would need to see the report 
prepared following the trace and access work  before cover  could be confirmed. 
When the home emergency report was received, Lloyds noted it said:
I first inspected the basin  and toilet [in the en-suite] which have no leaks  and are in perfect 
working order. There is a power shower  which is mains supplied  and the pipe work  is 
surface mounted, there  is [sic] no leaks on this. I then inspected the grouting and mastic seal 
around the shower, I noticed different coloured grout  around the first row of tiling and had a 
closer look to find cracked grouting; I also found  a slit on the mastic seal.  I have shown 
photographic evidence to Mrs [L]. 
Lloyds said to Mrs L that whilst her policy covered her for damage caused  by an escape  of 
water it excluded cover for damage  caused  by the failure of grouting or sealant.  So it 
declined Mrs Ls claim.  Mrs L complained to Lloyds that it wouldnt accept her claim.  Lloyds 
investigated her complaint  but didnt think itd acted unfairly by declining  her claim.  So Mrs L 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint but didnt  think  Lloyds had unfairly  declined  it. 
She noted that Mrs L thought that it was unfair that Lloyds had relied  on the home  
emergency report but didnt agree it was unreasonable  to do so. She noted  that Mrs L had 
since employed a plumber to fix a leak behind  the toilet in the en-suite (by resealing  it) and 
that Mrs L said shed  not had any problems  since. Our investigator asked Mrs L to send her 
the plumbers  report which  she did. 
Mrs L also said the home emergency engineer  was wrong about  where  the leak was coming 
from and that was clear  because her plumber had resealed behind  the toilet  and thered 
been no more  problems. She said it was wrong  that Lloyds hadnt sent its own expert to 
prepare a report  and wrong that itd relied  on the incorrect home emergency report. 
Ref: DRN35215112Our investigator noted Mrs Ls plumbers report said: 
We attended to investigate the leak on 15 January 2019. We found the leak was coming 
from damaged sealant. Mastic seal was applied behind the WC, along the shower base and 
flank wall.
Our investigator also asked Lloyds  if itd seen the plumbers  report.  Lloyds said it had and 
that even if the leak was found to have come from behind the toilet  the claim was still 
excluded because it was the result of failed sealant. 
Unhappy with the outcome of our investigation, Mrs L asked for her complaint  to be referred 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs L, I dont think her complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain  why. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage caused 
by one of the insured events listed in the policy  theft, fire, escape of water  etc.  will be 
covered. Its the responsibility of the policyholder  to show they have a valid claim. Providing 
they can do so the insurer  must accept the claim unless it is able to successfully apply one 
of the policy  exclusions  to defeat  it. That is what Lloyds has done with Mrs Ls claim.
It is not in dispute  that Mrs L has suffered an escape  of water thats damaged  her downstairs 
WC ceiling. But not all escape of water claims will be accepted under the policy  terms. There 
are some causes of damage which are excluded and damage  thats  the result of failed 
sealant or grouting is one of those circumstances.  
Its up to individual  insurers what they will and wont provide  cover  for and what price  to 
charge for doing so. But excluding damage caused  by an escape of water which is caused 
by failed sealant or grouting is typically present in most home insurance policies. Thats  
because the number of claims that could arise out of such  circumstances would be so high 
that the cost of providing the insurance  would become  prohibitively  expensive. 
I accept that Mrs L thinks that the conclusion reached by the home emergency engineer 
about the cause of damage was wrong.  But even if I were to disregard that report  the fact 
remains that her own plumber also found the leak was coming from damaged sealant albeit 
from a different place.  But the location is irrelevant as the cause is the same  and damage 
caused in such  a way isnt covered. And it is worth noting that it wasnt only around  the WC 
that her plumber applied new sealant but also to the shower base and the flank  wall. The 
report is silent as to whether the sealant applied to the shower base was inside or outside  of 
the enclosure itself.
I dont think Lloyds did unreasonably rely on the home emergency report. That engineer  
carried out trace and access work  to discover  the source of the leak. I think it would be 
unreasonable to expect  Lloyds to ignore it or to expect  it to incur the cost of sending out its 
own expert when it already had access to a detailed  contemporaneous report. 
Ref: DRN35215113I appreciate that Mrs L is frustrated that her claim has been declined but I dont think  Lloyds  
did so unreasonably or unfairly. It considered the claim, and all the associated  evidence, 
against the policy terms. Those terms exclude  damage caused by failed grout and sealant. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3521511