K821x#15complaint
Ms G complained about how Sabre Insurance Company Limited  (Sabre) handled a claim 
she made under her motor insurance policy.  
Ms Gs son is a named  driver on her motor  insurance policy and her representative for this 
complaint. I will refer to him as Mr F in this decision to help keep things simple. 
background
In April 2018, Mr F was driving  Ms Gs car when  he was involved in an accident with a third 
party. Mr F said he was driving on a roundabout when a third party  vehicle collided with the 
rear passenger side of the car. 
Mr F said he reported the accident  to Ms Gs broker and Sabre, and was given a set of 
options to progress the claim. Mr F said as Ms Gs car wasnt substantially  damaged  they 
would consider their options. Sabre said Mr F didnt make contact with it and only found  out 
about the accident when  notified by the third partys  insurer.  
In May 2018  Sabre  contacted Ms G to say it was holding  Mr F liable for the accident. Sabre 
said it was more likely than not that Mr F changed lanes when it wasnt safe to do so. Mr F 
disputed this. He said the third party  was responsible for the accident and therefore  felt 
Sabre had acted  unfairly.  
Sabre said two engineers assessed  Ms Gs car and deemed it a total loss. So it offered to 
pay her the total loss settlement for the market value of her car  minus  any excess. But Ms 
G was unhappy  with the amount offered and complained about this. She wanted Sabre to 
increase the offer and allow her to keep the car so she could have the repairs carried  out 
privately. Sabre didnt agree to this. 
Sabre wrote to Ms G in November 2018 to address her concerns. It didnt uphold her 
complaint about  the liability dispute, or the total loss settlement it offered. It said it received 
information from the third party that discredited the statement Mr F provided in May 2018. 
Sabre said the information included video  footage  from the third party which showed  Mr F 
giving different information to what he told Sabre when he spoke to them  in May 2018. Sabre 
also said its solicitors supported the liability  decision  and wouldnt be willing  to defend  it in 
court given the information available. 
Our investigator looked into the concerns Ms G raised about both the liability  decision, and 
the cash settlement  for her car. 
She said she didnt  think  Sabre had acted unreasonably in reaching  its decision to hold Ms 
G liable. But she felt Sabre should  increase the total loss settlement amount  because she 
didnt think it had fairly made deductions to the amount for pre-accident  damage.  
Our investigator did say that Sabre should pay Ms 8% simple interest as the payment hadnt 
been made. But Sabre later responded to say Ms G was in possession of her car and she 
hadnt completed the necessary documents in order for it to complete the settlement. Our 
investigator agreed based on this information and said it wouldnt be fair for Sabre to pay 8% 
simple interest. 
Ref: DRN38560282Ms G disagreed with our investigators  view so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with our 
investigators recommendations and for broadly similar reasons. I will now explain why. 
Our service doesnt decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at 
whether an insurer  has reached its decision fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Ms Gs policy has a common  term which  explains  that Sabre can take control of a claim and 
settle it as it sees best appropriate. This service  agrees this term is fair in principle providing 
the insurer can demonstrate it has treated its customer  fairly  when applying it. And in this 
case, I dont think  Sabre has acted unfairly. 
Both parties  have a different  account of what happened to cause  the accident. Mr F said he 
travelled through a green traffic light and established  himself  on the roundabout when the 
third party collided with the car. Sabre said it obtained footage taken by the third party 
moments after the accident and Mr F can be heard saying the traffic light was amber when 
he drove through them. 
The third party said he was travelling  through a green light when Mr F travelled  through a red 
traffic light and collided  with his car. Sabre said Mr F told it he didnt know  where he was 
going and moved  left from the middle  lane on the roundabout where the third party  collided  
with him. 
Whilst neither party  has provided CCTV footage of the accident itself,  Sabre has provided us 
with a video recording  which  was taken by the third party  after the accident took place. 
Sabre said Mr F is having a conversation with the third party  and says the traffic light was 
amber when he drove through it. Ive viewed the footage and based on what  Ive seen Im in 
agreement Mr F said the lights were amber when he drove through them. 
Its not my role to decide is who is at fault here.  What I need to determine is whether Sabre 
has applied  the terms of Ms Gs policy fairly. I can see Sabre  provided  its solicitors with the 
information it gathered.  And its solicitors agreed that Sabre shouldnt defend the claim  based  
on the information available. I think its fair for Sabre  to rely on the opinion  of a solicitor to 
decide what prospects  of success  it would have should it decide to take the third partys  
insurer to court to dispute liability.  
Ms G was also unhappy with the total loss settlement Sabre offered. Sabre said an 
independent engineer inspected Ms Gs car and said the pre-accident value was £565. 
As Ms G disputed this, a second  independent engineer inspected her car but agreed  with the 
valuation provided  by the first engineer. Sabre said these valuations  reflected a deduction 
due to pre-existing damage. 
Its important to explain that our service  doesnt decide a market value. But we consider if 
the offer being made is reasonable and in line with the policy.  We normally  base this on the 
various trade  guides and we will also look at any other evidence  produced  including  adverts.  
But I place most weight on the values in the main  trade guides as theyre based on likely 
selling prices rather than advertised prices,  which allow a margin for negotiation.
Ref: DRN38560283Both engineers that looked  at Ms Gs car agreed that the estimated costs  to repair her car 
came to more than the market value for it. The engineers also said the car was roadworthy 
and therefore  driveable, and I understand Ms Gs car has been used since  the accident. 
Based on her research  our investigator  didnt think the offer was reasonable. And given the 
age of the vehicle she didnt think a deduction for pre-accident  damage was fair. She told 
Sabre she felt it should increase the offer to £717.
Ms G said she would like Sabre to pay her £500 and allow her to retain her car. But Im not 
persuaded Ms G has reasonably evidenced  why she considers £500 is a fair settlement  for 
her car. 
Ms G has explained that her car was insured  for £1,200, and had a number of additional 
extras. But additional extras do not always increase  the value of a car and these wouldve 
been taken into account when both Sabre and our investigator carried out their own research 
using the guides. 
Ive carried out my own research and agree  with our investigators view that Sabre should 
increase the total loss settlement from £565  to £717. But its important to explain that its fair 
that Sabre deduct Ms Gs excess that would be due under the policy.  
An excess  is required to be paid when making  a claim under a policy,  or can be deducted 
from the settlement  amount made by an insurer. Given  the claim has been recorded as a 
fault claim its unlikely Ms G would be able to recover  the excess from the third partys 
insurer. 
Im satisfied Sabre acted fairly by offering to pay Ms G the market  value of her car in line 
with the policy terms. Im in agreement  that £717 is a fair total loss settlement to reflect the 
market value of Ms Gs car. Sabre agreed  to do this so I wont  be asking Sabre to do 
anything more here. 
Mr F wrote to us in January 2019 to say that Sabre hasnt been  in touch to progress the 
claim. But I disagree. Sabre wrote  to Ms G in August  2018 to set out what  Ms G was 
required to provide it in order  to validate and process the claim.  So I dont think Sabre has 
caused unreasonable delays in progressing Ms Gs claim.  And it wouldnt be fair to ask it to 
pay interest on the settlement figure for the time its taken.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Sabre Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Ms G £717,  minus any policy excess deduction. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Martyn Tomkins 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3856028