K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint against American  Express Services  Europe Limited (Amex) is in respect of 
how his online statement confused and upset him, as he felt it misrepresented the status of 
his account.
background
In January 2019, Mr D noticed his online Amex statement  showed  some charges as paid, 
but that the same charges also showed  as pending  at the same time. He felt this was 
duplication, so he used Amexs Live Chat feature to find out what had happened.
He was advised and reassured by Amex that there  was no duplication, and that within  a day 
or two the pending amounts would drop off - as theyd already been  processed. 
But Mr D remained  unhappy, so he complained to Amex. 
Amex responded  saying  it was sorry hed felt confused and disoriented by his online 
statement, but that it hadnt made a mistake, and it felt its Live Chat operators had advised 
him correctly, and treated him fairly.  So it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D remained  unhappy, so brought his complaint to our service.  He didnt think Amex had 
responded appropriately to the situation. And as a resolution he wanted  it to compensate 
him for the disorientation and distress caused.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Amex  had already  done enough to 
resolve Mr Ds complaint, so he wouldnt be upholding it. He said he was satisfied  there were  
no duplicate charges, and that Amex had explained  the positon  to Mr D correctly and 
helpfully via the Live Chat. He also noted  that nothing that had happened  had stopped  or 
prevented Mr D being able to use his Amex account.
Mr D still didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He didnt provide any further  
information for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that I cant uphold  this complaint. It 
wouldnt be fair for me to do so, as I cant see that Amex made any mistakes, or that it 
treated Mr D poorly or unfairly.
I can see why Mr D might initially have been confused by his online statement.  But Im 
satisfied that when he contacted Amexs Live Chat his concerns  were dealt with 
appropriately. It was explained how the confusion has arisen, and he was aware  that what  
the statement  showed didnt affect  his ability to use his card.
While Im sorry Mr D felt confused and disoriented by what  his Amex  statement showed, Im 
not convinced  this impact  was sufficiently great  to warrant an award of compensation. Im 
satisfied that Amex did what it should  to allay his concerns, and explain his statement to him. 
No mistakes were made, and he was still able to use his account as normal.  
Ref: DRN33796162My role is to consider all the evidence, and decide on an outcome I think is fair to both  
parties. I hope Ive explained why it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Amex  to do anything else 
here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3379616