K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) made  errors when she 
took out an account. Specifically that her address was recorded incorrectly,  and that it 
recorded two credit searches on her credit  file.
background
Mrs C applied for a current account  online with First Direct in January 2019. Her application 
timed out and she called First Direct. She was told that starting a new application would 
link in with her previous  one. First Direct inform all applicants that a credit check  would be 
carried out. Unfortunately, Mrs Cs applications  didnt link which meant two credit checks 
were carried  out. Mrs C complained to First Direct and it removed the duplicate credit checks 
and paid compensation of £100.
Mrs C also received some post from First Direct but the address was listed incorrectly.  This 
meant the post was delivered to her neighbour. Mrs C says she had to contact First Direct 
twice before this issue was rectified.  First Direct updated her address in its system and paid 
Mrs C compensation of £50.
Our investigator felt that First Direct  had done  enough to put things right for Mrs C. She 
disagreed and felt that it should pay her higher  compensation so shes asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  First Direct  has 
done enough to put things right, so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
credit searches
First Direct  has explained  that as part of its account  opening application process it carries 
out a credit search  on the applicant to verify  their identity.  This is standard practice for 
account opening applications  whether  the applicant is applying  for an overdraft  or not. As 
Mrs Cs application timed out before it was completed,  two credit searches were  conducted. 
This was a mistake. And I understand Mrs C wouldve been particularly frustrated as she 
had called First Direct  about the application  and it told her doing a new one would link up 
even though this wasnt the case.
So I think this error  has caused  Mrs C some trouble and upset. She was shocked  to see that 
two credit searches  had been applied to her credit file. But I can see that First Direct 
removed the duplicate search when  Mrs C notified  it of the error. And it paid Mrs C £100 for 
the trouble and upset this caused her. I think this is fair and reasonable. The duplicate  
search was an error, and was corrected as soon  as it could  be after Mrs C made First Direct  
aware. So I think £100 compensation fairly addresses the trouble and upset the error 
caused.
I understand Mrs C had a similar problem with another  application with HSBC UK Bank Plc  
but not with First Direct. She feels she should  be given the same amount of compensation 
that she was awarded for that error. But I disagree  because I think  £100 is fair and 
reasonable in compensating  her for First Directs error here.
Ref: DRN32776922incorrect address
First Direct  had Mrs Cs address in a different format on one of its systems.  This meant  that 
two letters  were sent out to her and received by her neighbour. I note that Mrs C received 
both of these letters  but it would have  been  disappointing and worrying for her to have been 
handed these  by her neighbour.  Especially  as one was received after Mrs C had called First 
Direct to notify it of the address format error.
First Direct  has confirmed  that Mrs Cs address has been amended on this system and that 
the only letters sent were the two she received. It paid Mrs C £50 compensation for this error  
and I think that is fair and reasonable. It was inconvenient for Mrs C to have to call First 
Direct twice,  but I can see it addressed her issue  quickly and apologised to her for its 
mistake. So I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) has done 
enough to put things  right. So I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3277692