K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited  unfairly declined  his income protection claim. 
background
Mr T was a member of his employers group income protection scheme. The policy  was 
provided by HSBC Life, and was designed to provide a proportion of a Mr Ts income in the 
event that illness or injury  prevented him working for more  than 26 consecutive  weeks.
In January 2018, Mr T became absent  from work because of stress.  A claim under his 
employers income  protection scheme went on to be made  for him. But HSBC  Life concluded 
there werent  sufficient  grounds to evidence that Mr T had satisfied the policy  terms and 
declined his claim. 
In doing so, HSBC Life said a claim  under  their policy was only valid if available  medical  
evidence demonstrated  a member was prevented from working on the grounds of illness or 
injury. They  said the available  evidence in Mr Ts case made it clear his absence was, and 
continued to be, triggered by adverse personable circumstances  in the workplace. And, 
highlighted the following  term which  set out what wasnt  considered illness or injury:
Any non-medical  cause  responsible either directly or indirectly  for the Members  absence 
from work,  as identified by HSBC  life, including but not limited to disciplinary matters, 
grievances or other  work place issues.
Unhappy with HSBC  Lifes  decision, Mr T brought his complaint here. One of our 
investigators looked at what  had happened. But they thought HSBC Life had applied  the 
policy terms fairly. And they didnt think HSBC Life had declined  Mr Ts claim unreasonably 
in view of the available evidence. 
Consequently, our investigator  didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint be upheld.  But Mr T 
didnt and gave  several reasons as to why that was. In summary though, Mr T felt his claim 
and circumstances  hadnt been  considered fairly. So as no agreement was reached  the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has provided  detailed submission in support of his complaint. I can see that he feels 
very strongly  about whats happened, but my findings will only focus on those  matters  I 
consider central  to the outcome of this complaint.  That means I wont  address every 
argument that Mr Ts raised. And I trust that he wont take that as a matter of discourtesy. 
 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines require HSBC Life to handle complaints promptly 
and fairly,  and not reject them unreasonably.  And, as our investigator explained, HSBC Lifes 
policy sets out that benefit can be paid if, by reason of illness or injury, a member is unable  
to perform the duties  of their own occupation.  
The policy defines  illness  or injury as a set of medically verified symptoms or a verified 
medical condition  which the member  is experiencing and is recognized  by HSBC Life. 
Ref: DRN30101682It also sets out that neither stress  or workplace stress  nor any non-medical  cause  
responsible either directly  or indirectly  for the Members absence from work, as identified by 
HSBC Life, including but not limited to disciplinary matters, grievances or other workplace 
issues  are considered to be an illness or injury.
In view of that, and in light of the available medical  evidence, Im not persuaded that 
HSBC Life acted unreasonably in declining  this claim and will explain why.
Mr T was continually  signed off work by his GP, and thats evidenced  within his GP patient  
record. But throughout that same record there  are numerous entries citing  work related 
issues and stress as the reason for Mr Ts continued absence. And thats not something 
covered under HSBC Lifes policy. Without  referring to every  entry  from that record, I note:
An entry from January  2018 recording Mr Ts problem as stress as work and stating, feeling 
very anxious today.  Precipitated by a bad appraisal  at work [] it is all work related   when 
he is off he feels fine.
An entry from February 2018 also recording the problem as stress at work and stating, 
Situation unchanged. Feels ok as long as he isnt thinking about  work. Work have  been  
contacting him about work related issued and this caused stress.
Further entries from March and April 2018 recording the problem as stress at work. And 
stating, ongoing stress at work and no change in his situation.  Feels some anxiety over 
work issues as he doesnt know whats going to happen.
And a further entry from June 2018  recording the problem as stress at work and stating, of 
[sic] work  since  Jan  employment issue mainly  [] feels being unfairly managed, feels  
concerns not being acted upon and they are trying to force  him out. Away  from work is well 
and functioning  [] long chat re usage  of me3 [sic] for primarily what is an employment 
issue specific to this one position.
Separate to the GP patient record, an occupation health report of June 2018 also cited work 
related stress as the reasons for Mr Ts continued absence.  I note the report said:
It would be difficult to predict a return to work date whilst (Mr T) continues  to report  distress 
related to work concerns . And at present (Mr T) reports work concerns that have caused 
him some distress  and on the advice of his GP he has refrained from work. (Mr T) tells me 
that due to the distress he is experiencing regarding work concerns he fells unable  to face to 
face with the business  at this time
So again,  in view of the above  terms  which set out that stress  or workplace stress, and 
non-medical causes responsible absence such as workplace issues arent  considered illness  
or injury  Im of the opinion that HSBC Life declined this claim reasonably.  
I know that Mr T has further concerns about HSBC Life not communicating  with him directly. 
But its important to recognise that Mr T isnt the policyholder in this case,  his employer is. 
Within their policy, HSBC Life advise that all communication about  the policy,  including  any 
claims, would  be communicated to the policyholder  and it would remain the policy  holders 
responsibility to pass  any information on to members accordingly. I dont find that to be 
unusual for a group scheme like this. And I dont think  HSBC  Life were  acting  outside  the 
terms of their policy in communicating with Mr Ts employer directly.   
Ref: DRN30101683As I said initially,  Mr Ts set out quite clearly just how strongly he feels about whats  
happened. And I can see that his experience had been difficult. However, for the reasons  
given above Im not persuaded  that HSBC Life declined this claim unreasonably. So I wont 
be directing them to do anything. I realise  that Mr T will likely be further disappointed by that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3010168