K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about a bathroom which was paid for using her credit  card supplied by 
Santander UK Plc.
Mrs W is represented in her complaint.  However,  for simplicity I have referred  to all 
submissions from Mrs Ws representative as being  made by Mrs W.
background
Mrs W wanted a new bathroom.  She contacted a supplier,  a limited company that Ill call B. 
It did an initial visit, agreed terms and then afterwards supplied  and fitted  a bathroom.
Mrs W is unhappy with the end result. In summary, she suggests what  she was told she was 
going to get and what she actually  got were two different things. She feels she has lost out 
as a result. Moreover, she complains the work  wasnt done to a professional  standard.  
Further, she also complains that the bathroom fittings are not of satisfactory quality. Plus,  
she tells us, she only went ahead  with the purchase  because B used pressure selling 
techniques on her. She complained to both B and Santander. She wants all of her money 
back so she can start again  with a new supplier.
Santander rejected  her complaint. It didnt agree it was likely that the bathroom was 
misrepresented to her. It said B was prepared to do any repairs that might be required,  and it 
thought this was a fair solution.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs W came  to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaint. She didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, she didnt agree on balance that the contract had been misrepresented or 
breached. It followed she had no proper basis therefore for asking Santander to do anything 
further.
Santander accepted our investigators recommendation, Mrs W did not. In short,  she pointed 
out the plan shed got before the work was done  was not to scale. It gave  a misleading 
impression of what Mrs W was going  to get and she had relied on this. 
Moreover, she didnt think  B had been consistent in what it had said. She suggested this 
undermined its stance.  For example, from the beginning of her complaint, Mrs W said B 
promised her bathroom could be used by a wheelchair user.  But at first B didnt say anything  
about this point, it focused on other areas. Mrs W suggested that this supported  her position 
that B had misled  her about  the dimensions  of the bathroom. 
In addition, she told us there was a mismatch between the standard  of the bathroom in Bs 
glossy sales brochure and her bathroom. She had relied on the brochure  and got an 
inaccurate impression  of what she could expect of the bathroom  as a result. 
Mrs W acknowledged that she did sign a satisfaction  note when the work was done, in which 
she gave B great feedback. However,  that was before she used the bathroom and realised it 
was not up to scratch. 
Ref: DRN32051082Finally, she explained  why she had not cancelled the contract when she had the chance. 
She said this was because she had not realised she could do this, at the time. The reason  
for that being  that the only copy of the contract  she had was a barely  readable carbon copy.
Mrs W asked  that an ombudsman  take a look at her complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive finished my review  of Mrs Ws complaint. Im not going to ask Santander to do anything 
further. I recognise that this is going  to disappoint  Mrs W, that is not my intention. Please let 
me explain why Ive come to this conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs W in bringing  this complaint is relying on the rights she has under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  That provision gives her the right to bring a claim against  
Santander for misrepresentation or breach of contract, in certain circumstances.  Mrs W tells 
us Santander  provided the finance  to fund the contract. B has both misrepresented the 
contract and breached it. She holds Santander  responsible for this.
I realise that our investigator has already set out our role in this complaint. But I think  it is 
worth repeating it again. In considering a complaint about a financial services  provider, Im 
not determining  the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in 
deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ws complaint, I have to take account  of relevant 
law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law in this complaint. Therefore, Ive taken 
it into account. But that doesnt  mean Im obliged  to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mrs W pursued  a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Relevant law also includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015  this says amongst other things, 
that where a business does work for a consumer that the work must be done with 
reasonable skill and care. It also says that any goods supplied must be of satisfactory 
quality. So, I have taken  this law into account  too, and Ill talk more  about this later.
was Mrs W given incorrect information  about  the contract that she relied on to her detriment?
Ref: DRN32051083Initially Mrs W told us about two things  that she thought were misrepresentations. She 
suggested she had told B that she very specifically  wanted the bathroom to have wheelchair 
access. And it responded verbally but not in writing that she would  get just that. She also told 
us that the plans and photos she was shown  before she entered into the contract mislead  
her about  what she was going  to get. But for these misrepresentations she suggested, she 
would not have gone ahead with the contract.
It seems  Mrs W no longer  relies on the first argument about verbal misrepresentation, so Ill 
not look at that point.  But she still wants the second argument to be looked at. 
I agree  that the plan wasnt to scale but Ive not seen  the whole bathroom so it is difficult to 
tell if the proportions of the current bathroom  are so out of sync with the plan that it could be 
said it was misleading.  Moreover, I think the plan looks  like a rough sketch, that is something 
that was meant to give Mrs W an idea of what would go where  rather  than to give her a firm 
idea about dimensions. Mrs W might have inferred  from what  she saw that she would be 
able to use the bathroom in a certain way i.e. using a wheelchair. But I dont think  I can fairly 
hold Santander  responsible for that. I think it is significant to note that Mrs W is not a 
wheelchair user.
Its to be expected that a company will make its brochure as alluring as it can. That said, 
there should not be such a difference between the photos in its promotional  material and the 
finished product  that the brochure could be said to be giving an inaccurate  impression.  When  
I compare the photos  in the brochure  and the photos Ive got of Mrs Ws bathroom I dont 
agree the bathroom was misrepresented, albeit, I accept that Mrs W is disappointed with it.
Mrs W tells us B hasnt been  consistent  in its rebuttals of her claims. She suggests that 
means we shouldnt place weight on what it says.  But whilst it may not have initially talked 
about whether  it told Mrs W the bathroom would be wheelchair accessible, it has 
consistently said it has done nothing wrong.  And just because it didnt initially  address one of 
her complaint points,  does not, by itself,  lead me to think that I should  place  less weight on 
what it says than on what Mrs W says. 
For all of these reasons, it follows I dont uphold this part of Mrs Ws complaint.
did B provide a substandard installation and a substandard product?
Mrs W is correct when she suggests  the work in the bathroom should have been done with 
reasonable skill and care. She is also correct to suggest that the fittings should have been of 
satisfactory quality. 
Ive seen a report  from B setting out what seems to be a short snagging  list. It is not ideal 
that there  are snagging items with this new bathroom but that by itself does not mean that 
Mrs W should fairly and reasonably be able to reject the whole bathroom. 
Rather B has agreed  to put the snagging items  right. Mrs W has refused this option. It seems  
she has lost trust in B. But whilst  I realise  she feels like this, I cant  say that Bs behaviour  
has been such that I think it is reasonable for her to take this stance. B has accepted that 
there are seemingly minor  items to correct and it is willing  to do this, that seems  reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
That said,  might  Santander, as a goodwill gesture, like to think about allowing, another 
tradesman of Mrs Ws choosing  to complete the snagging? And might  it also,  as a goodwill 
Ref: DRN32051084gesture pay for this? I cant make  it do this, but it might want to provide this assistance  for its 
customer. 
Mrs W should be aware though that if another tradesman does the snagging work this might 
mean that she loses any guarantee that B has provided for the work.
I agree  that durability  is an aspect of satisfactory quality. Mrs W suggests that the bathroom 
is of such poor quality that it isnt going to last long. However, nothing  Ive seen suggests 
that is the case.
I do agree  that B should not have left a package in the toilet that meant Mrs W could not 
flush it. But it seems  that this problem has been fixed. Mrs W hasnt said this cost her 
anything to sort out neither has she asked  for compensation for this.
It follows Ive no proper  basis to uphold this part of her complaint.
the sales process
As I understand it Mrs W wasnt cold-called by B. Rather she sought it out and invited it to 
her home. She wanted to purchase a bathroom this wasnt a purchase  that she had not had 
in mind until B put it to her. She didnt cancel the contract or even call B to complain after the 
sales visit. She gave B good written feedback. Mrs W didnt appear to complain at all until 
after the installation  of the bathroom when she decided that the bathroom  was not up to par. 
This is not what I would  expect if a consumer had been coerced into a contract,  that they 
never wanted.
I realise that Mrs W is unhappy with the bathroom now and on reflection and with hindsight  
she might  now wish that she had talked the contract over with her representative before 
going ahead. But in the circumstances, I am not persuaded that she did not intend to enter 
into the contract and only did so because she was pressurised into it by B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3205108