K821x#15complaint
Mrs R has complained following Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs (RSA)  decision to
decline her claim  on her home insurance policy. She is also complaining  about  the time it
took RSA to resolve the claim.
Mrs R is being represented  in this complaint, but for ease Ive referred  to all actions and
comments of the representative  as being those of Mrs R.
background
A theft at Mrs Rs property  was reported  to RSA in July 2018 and her claim with quotes was
provided in September 2018.  Due to the amount of the claim, RSA appointed loss adjustors
and investigation  specialists.
During the investigation into the claim, RSA were made aware that Mrs R was not present at
the property at the time of the theft and that she spends some time of the year abroad. It was
the gardener for the property who had noticed  the break in and told Mrs R. RSA began to
question who lived at the property and were  told that as well as Mrs R, her daughter
occasionally stayed there and Mrs Rs niece stays at the property approximately  six times a
month.
At the beginning  of January 2019  Mrs R was told that her claim had been declined.  RSA said
that the policy excluded theft claims when the property  is unoccupied. RSA stated that they
felt the amount of times that Mrs Rs niece stayed at the property meant that it was
unoccupied as defined by the policy terms.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought RSA had not acted fairly in declining  
the claim.  The relevant parts of my provisional  decision are outlined below.
This policy exclusion that RSA are relying on says that Mrs R is not covered for a 
claim of theft where the property is unoccupied. The meaning of unoccupied is given 
as when the home has not been lived in by your family or by anyone  who has your 
permission, for more than 60 days in a row. Lived in means slept  in frequently.
I must  determine Mrs Rs niece occupied the property enough to meet this definition. 
RSA have not made it clear  what counts as frequently.  I have therefore looked  at the 
everyday definition of the word which is regularly or habitually; often. If someone 
was to do something once  or twice a week, I would consider  that to meet  this 
definition.
There appears to have been  two thefts,  with the first instance  raised  at the end of 
June and further items noticed to have  been  stolen the following month. I believe that 
Mrs Rs niece did stay at the property in the 60 days prior to these instances and with 
Mrs Rs permission, as required by the policy. So I dont consider it to have been  
unoccupied as defined by the policy terms. So overall based on the above,  I dont  
think RSA can fairly  rely on the unoccupied exclusion to decline the claim.  So it will 
need to reconsider  the claim in line with the remaining  policy terms.
Ref: DRN34953892I didnt feel that the there had been  any unexplained  delays  whilst  the claim was 
being assessed. However, it was going on for many months and without regular 
updates. As I felt the claim had been unfairly  declined, there was unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs R. I feel that RSA should  pay Mrs R £300 
to compensate for this.  
Mrs R has already  replaced some of the stolen items. Due to the time that has 
passed, I find this reasonable. If these are items covered by the policy, RSA should 
reimburse the cost of them,  and with interest  for the loss of use of this money.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Both RSA and Mrs R responded, to confirm that they agreed with the findings set out in my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
As there is nothing further for me to consider  and both parties  agree with my findings, my 
decision remains as outlined in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining policy  terms. It will need to reimburse Mrs R for the cost of items that 
have already been replaced that would have been  covered  and add simple interest of 8% to 
this amount, from the date the items were replaced  to the date of settlement. It should also 
pay Mrs R £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to deduct tax from the 
interest payment  referred above.  Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must give Mrs R a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted  if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3495389