K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  they were mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Sesame Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs S complain  about an interest-only mortgage they took out in 2007, having  
received advice from Sesames representative.
Mr and Mrs S say the mortgage  wasnt right for them. They already had a repayment 
mortgage of around  £60,000. Following the re-mortgage, they had an interest  only mortgage 
of £160,000  the increased balance was to repay the existing mortgage,  as well as various 
debts associated with Mrs Ss business.  
Mrs S had a business loan with the same  lender  as the previous mortgage. And Mrs S has 
also explained that there were various other debts  credit cards and loans  that had mostly 
been run up in supporting her business.  She says she was experiencing financial difficulty  at 
the time.  Shed invested in refurbishing her business  premises,  which had been more 
expensive than shed  anticipated. And her business  was running at a loss, and she wasnt  
taking a wage.  So as a result her debts had run up. She says her accountant recommended 
she get some financial  advice and referred her to Sesame  but it didnt give her wider 
financial advice; it just sold her a mortgage that wasnt right for her and Mr S.
Mr and Mrs S say the mortgage  was unsuitable because it was unaffordable. It ran into their 
retirement. Both the lender and Sesame have since been fined by the regulator for how they 
treat their customers. They should  have been  given other options  such  as bankruptcy or 
an arrangement with their creditors.  Theyve struggled to afford  the mortgage ever since.
Sesame said it didnt  have any records of the advice  that was given at the time because  of 
the passage of time. But based on what it knew of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances it didnt  
think the mortgage was unsuitable.  It said their main priority was to pay off their other debts,  
and this was achieved. It said they couldnt  afford a repayment mortgage, so an interest only 
mortgage was recommended. And their credit  history, and the amount they wanted to 
borrow relative to their income,  would have restricted the choice of lenders open to them.  It 
said they had no other  option but to remortgage at the time.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs S asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about mortgage advice  that was given in 2007  although  thats more  than 
six years  ago, Sesame has consented  to us looking at the complaint. But its explained that 
because of how long ago the advice  happened, it doesnt have any records from the time of 
the sale anymore.  Neither  do Mr and Mrs S. 
This means  there are significant gaps in the documentary  evidence available to me. Ive 
discussed the case with Mrs S and shes told me what shes able to remember  of their 
Ref: DRN32651532situation at the time. But she doesnt have any surviving paperwork, for example  statements, 
which might  show their finances or give details of the debts added to the mortgage.
Our investigator has managed to get evidence of Mrs Ss business loan in the form of the 
original facility letter. It was for £35,000, taken out around a year before the mortgage.  The 
loan was secured  over Mr and Mrs Ss home. Mrs S says that by a year later she had 
missed some payments  and borrowed further  money, so the loan balance  was nearer 
£50,000. But she doesnt have any documentation to confirm  that.
The rest of the additional  mortgage balance was, Mrs S says,  made up of various other 
debts  loans  and credit cards  taken out to fund the business, or to spend  on the home or 
the cost of living. All this debt was unsecured. Again,  theres no documentation to confirm  
that still surviving.
This makes it difficult to decide  whether or not a suitable recommendation was made.  When  
giving mortgage  advice, an advisor  should  have  at this time  understood Mr and Mrs Ss 
needs and circumstances. They should then have recommended a mortgage that was 
affordable and appropriate  to their needs and circumstances, and the most suitable of those 
available  including recommending not to go ahead if there was no suitable  mortgage 
available. And where the purpose of the mortgage is to consolidate  other debts, the adviser  
should take into account whether it is appropriate  to secure unsecured  debt, the extra  costs  
of adding debt to a mortgage,  and whether other  alternatives  such as making  an 
arrangement with creditors  are more appropriate.
The difficulty  I have is that there  is no surviving  record of what  advice was given, the reasons 
for it, or the underlying factual circumstances on which it was based. Mrs S says that she 
was referred to Sesame  by her accountant, who recommended taking financial advice 
because she was in difficulties while her business  wasnt making any money and she had to 
meet its costs.
I dont think Sesame could have been  expected to advise Mrs S about her business, or 
about whether  or not it was viable, or whether  she should have  shut it down at this point. But 
where she was a sole trader, and the debts  shed run up for the business  were in her own 
name or joint names  with Mr S, theres inevitably an overlap with giving personal financial 
advice.
Mrs S now says Sesame should have  advised her to go bankrupt,  or try to come to some 
arrangement with her creditors. But Im not persuaded that this is something she would have 
wanted to consider at the time. 
I dont think bankruptcy  would have necessarily been the best option  since in addition to 
the previous mortgage, she had a business loan of at least £35,000 (perhaps up to £50,000) 
secured on the family home. If shed gone  bankrupt, there  would have been  a very real risk 
that the business loan lender  would have called in the security and Mr and Mrs S would have 
lost their home.
When I spoke to Mrs S, she explained that she eventually  sold the business in 2009.  In 2007 
she was still trying to make a go of it. She had invested significant capital in refurbishing the 
premises which she wouldnt get back unless she completed it and made a success of the 
business on an ongoing basis. I think she was still committed  to making it work at this time.
Ref: DRN32651533As she was a sole trader, if Mrs S had defaulted on her unsecured debts  (which  were at 
least £50,000) or entered into an arrangement with her creditors, it would  have been  very 
difficult for her to continue  with her business  for example,  by preventing  her from getting 
credit from suppliers. 
I think at the point Mr and Mrs S spoke  to Sesame, Mrs S was still committed  to making her 
business work. In getting to this point,  shed incurred significant  debts which  they were 
beginning to struggle with. I dont think Sesame could or should have advised  her about the 
viability of her business. Given that it was still ongoing, and Mrs S was still committed to 
making a success of it, a way needed  to be found  to make the debt commitments more  
affordable without jeopardising  that. In that light  and recognising  that the limitations of the 
evidence available  to me  Im not persuaded that remortgaging  to consolidate the debt at a 
lower interest rate and with lower  outgoings was an unsuitable thing to do.
In fact, things didnt work out. The business did fail a couple  of years later, and Mr and Mrs S 
struggled with the mortgage because she still wasnt able to take an income  from the 
business. Theyre now in a difficult position, left with an interest only mortgage  that means 
the business debts are still outstanding  and secured to their property. With the benefit of 
hindsight, I can see that it may well have been  better  in light of what happened  later  to 
have cut their losses in 2007.  
But I cant consider  this complaint with the benefit of hindsight;  I can only look at what  was 
known and knowable  at the time of the advice. As I say, the evidence is incomplete and all I 
have to work with is Mrs Ss recollections of her financial  position, and the fact of the 
mortgage that was arranged.  But based  on that evidence, Im not persuaded that Sesame 
made an unsuitable recommendation in the circumstances as they seem to have been at the 
time.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3265153