K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that SLL Capital Limited  was irresponsible to lend to her. Miss M wants  
SLL to refund  the interest and charges that she paid and remove the loans from her credit 
file.
background
Miss M had two loans  with SLL. She borrowed £100 on 19 December 2011. After repaying  
this a few days later,  Miss M asked  to borrow £250.
Miss M says that if SLL had looked  at her credit  file it wouldve seen a history  of taking out 
payday loans,  debt management and a County Court Judgment (CCJ).
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ms complaint be upheld. He said that based on 
Miss Ms declared  income of £1,600 and her loan repayments, SLL shouldve asked Miss M 
for details  of her living costs and credit commitments. 
As SLL couldnt  show that it carried out these kinds of checks, the adjudicator  thought that it 
wasnt fair to lend. He asked SLL to refund the interest and charges that Miss M had paid on 
the loans together with interest on the refund. The adjudicator also recommended  that SLL 
remove any negative information  about the loans from Miss Ms credit  file.
SLL didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation. Initially  it said that it couldnt 
retrieve Miss Ms income  and expenditure  for loan one but it provided  information from when 
Miss M applied for loans  in May 2013.
SLL then managed to extract the expenditure information that Miss M provided  at the time 
she applied  for loan one.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded not to uphold  Miss Ms 
complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
SLL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss M could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that SLL 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN30429072the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
SLL was required  to establish whether Miss M could sustainably  repay  her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Miss M declared  a net monthly  income  of £1,600.  She hadnt borrowed from SLL before so it 
didnt have any lending  history to consider. Miss M initially asked to borrow  £100.  I thought  
that for this loan it wouldve  been  reasonable of SLL to agree to lend based on knowing her 
income alone.
When Miss M went on to borrow £250  within a few days of repaying  loan one, I agreed  with 
the adjudicator  that it was reasonable to expect  SLL to ask about Miss Ms living costs and 
regular credit commitments before agreeing to lend.
SLL gave  us evidence that it asked Miss M for some  of this information before agreeing loan 
one. Miss M declared total monthly outgoings of £340 to include a credit  card,  housing  costs 
and a personal loan. 
I considered that SLLs checks were proportionate and based on the information  that Miss M 
declared both loans appeared affordable. Miss M took out the second  loan within  a few days  
of loan one so I thought  it was reasonable to rely on the same  expenditure information that 
she gave for loan one. 
Even if I added on some  of Miss Ms other outgoings  that I could see on her bank statements 
such as mobile phone payments, utility and insurance costs, I didnt think this wouldve made  
either loan appear  unaffordable.
I could see that Miss M was also borrowing from other short term lenders around the time 
that she borrowed from SLL. I didnt think SLL needed to ask about these but it included  a 
box for payday loans  in the budget information. The budget recorded a zero amount for 
payday loans.  I thought  it was reasonable of SLL to rely on this information. 
Although Miss M said that she had defaults on her credit file, the only one that I could  see 
from before  she took out the loans  with SLL was from 16 December 2011. As this was so 
close to the date that Miss M borrowed from SLL, its not likely that it would have appeared 
on any credit  search that SLL carried out. SLL also said that it couldnt see any evidence  of 
defaults. 
Miss M gave us a copy of the CCJ which showed  that the judgement was entered  in June 
2009. SLL says that it couldnt  see any evidence of CCJs on the credit  search  that it carried  
out. 
Ref: DRN30429073Overall, I couldnt say that SLL had information  about Miss M that shouldve  reasonably  
caused it to question whether she could sustainably afford to repay the loans. So I didnt 
intend upholding Miss Ms complaint.
further submissions
Miss M disagrees  with my provisional  decision.  She says that she had a mortgage, car, 
travel and utility bills at the time. So the fact SLL only recorded outgoings of £340  shows  that 
SLLs application process wasnt  robust  enough.
Miss M says that a credit  check would have  shown a number of other short  term credit  
commitments. Miss M questions why she would have needed to take out multiple loans if her 
monthly outgoings had only been £340.  
SLL hasnt  asked me to consider any further  information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate what  Miss M says about her true financial situation at the time, I dont 
think what I consider was a proportionate check wouldve revealed this. 
I still find that SLL carried out adequate  checks. As SLL couldnt see any evidence  of late or 
missing payments on its credit search and no defaults, I consider it was reasonable to have 
a degree of confidence that Miss M had given it accurate financial information. 
I wouldnt have expected SLL to go as far as trying to independently  verify  the financial 
information that Miss M gave by asking to see bank statements for example. 
For all the reasons that I outlined in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Im sorry  that this is likely  to disappoint Miss M.
Ref: DRN30429074my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3042907