K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy over the telephone after she had taken out a store  card with another  
business.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
In June 2019, I issued my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I was reaching the 
decision that the PPI had been mis-sold to Mrs C. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties for their comments and invited them to send me any further  information  
or evidence  they wished  me to look at before reaching my final decision.  FICL didnt respond 
to my provisional decision and Mrs Cs representatives said they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Cs case.
As neither party has sent me anything further  to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings and I uphold this complaint.
fair compensation
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 
Ref: DRN39207002B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited should put things right as Ive set out in the fair compensation section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39207003COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs C says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy over the telephone after she had taken out a store card with another business.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept  responsibility  for the complaint.  
To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI policy over the telephone in 2000.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said as Mrs C was a temp/ agency 
worker when  she took out the policy and the policy terms would have made  it hard for her to make a 
claim. And she said if the information had been clearer  she didnt think Mrs C would have taken out 
the policy.  FICL disagreed  with this view and asked  for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Im intending to uphold  this complaint  and I will explain why below.
In her questionnaire to this service, Mrs C told us that she was a temporary  worker/agency worker.  I 
can see from the final response letter from the business  that it was aware of Mrs Cs employment  
status and that has been Mrs Cs consistent position since referring her complaint. So I accept  that 
she was a temporary/agency worker  when she took out the PPI.
However, I can see that Mrs C worked in her role as a temporary worker for some time - she has told 
us she was in her position for about three years. So I dont think  its likely she would have thought  that 
she was being made unemployed in the near future or she had reason to think  she would  be likely to 
lose her job and I dont think its likely unemployment  was a regular feature of her work.
So I dont think her position  would have made it more difficult to make a claim and so I dont uphold 
her complaint for this reason. I have then gone on to see if there is any other reason to uphold Mrs 
Cs complaint.
I can see that Mrs C suffered with a pre-existing  medical condition and she was taking medication for 
this condition. She told us that she was diagnosed in 1992 many years before she took out the policy. 
The policy sold to cover Mrs C excluded  sickness  claims  for pre-existing medical  conditions.
FICL have told us that they didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs C. This means they didnt have to take 
into account  Mrs Cs existing circumstances when selling her PPI. But they did still have to give Mrs C 
clear information about the policy so that she could  make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out. I havent  seen enough  evidence  to conclude that FICL did give Mrs C clear information  
about the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical  conditions.
Ref: DRN39207004The policy terms state that the policy  would  not pay for any sickness, diseases, condition  or injury 
which you knew about or should have known about, or for which  you received advice, treatment 
from any doctor during  the 12 months before  the start date.
So I dont think Mrs C would  have  been able to make a claim for any time off resulting from her pre-
existing medical condition. I cant say what was said to her over the telephone but I havent seen 
enough evidence  to make  me think  that FICL would have drawn to her attention  to the fact that she 
wouldnt be able to make a claim  for her pre-existing medical condition. And I dont know whether she 
saw the policy document but even if she did I think this would have been sent after she had decided 
to buy the policy and I dont  think the terms about not being able to make a claim for her condition  
would have been drawn to her attention. The relevant  parts of the policy  are contained  in small print 
and nothing  in the paperwork would have drawn Mrs Cs attention to the fact that pre-existing medical  
conditions would not be covered. 
I think  that would likely have  mattered to Mrs C as I think her particular condition  would have been  a 
likely reason she might have  needed time off work. And if the information  had been clearer I dont  
think she would have wanted  to take it out.
So I think Mrs C lost out financially because of what FICL did wrong and I intend  to uphold this 
complaint.
fair compensation
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial  position  shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed  her store  card 
account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those  charges.  
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when  she closed her 
account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple  interest on the difference between what  Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed  her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
C.If  when FICL works out what Mrs C would  have  owed each month without PPI  Mrs C paid 
more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs 
C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs C wouldve owed FICL  
something on her store card. The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% 
a year from then on. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and to ask Financial Insurance Company Limited to put things 
right as Ive set out above in the section headed fair compensation.
Ref: DRN39207005Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3920700