K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Miss B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  Miss B was sold the policy 
when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss B has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
I think Barclays made Miss B aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. The online application process has a clear yes or no option, and you have 
to tick one before you go ahead  with the credit  card application. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Bs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It was for Miss B to decide if it was suitable  for her. 
Miss B has said that the wording on the application page  amounts to mis-selling. This 
is where it says We strongly  recommend that you take out this valuable cover.  (And 
I can see the page also says Yes, I want  to protect my repayments, and No, I 
understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my 
job.) I dont think the page was saying anything untrue  although it is verging on the 
heavy sell. And I dont think it would actually make anyone  think  they had no 
choice. So I dont  agree that this aspect amounts to mis-selling. 
Barclays could have  set out clearer information about the costs  and benefits,  during 
the application process. It told you how much  you had to pay in premiums for every  
£100 you borrowed, but it didnt  clearly say youd have  to pay interest on the 
premiums if the balance wasnt paid off soon.  So the cost was slightly higher. And 
they didnt clearly set out how long the benefits  would last. But, although I cant be 
sure, I dont think, in Miss Bs circumstances, full information about costs  and 
benefits is likely to have  affected whether she took the PPI. The missing cost 
information wasnt that significant, and the PPI would still potentially have paid out for 
longer than her full sick pay would have lasted. And it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
Ref: DRN34970622Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Miss B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3497062