K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund an online disputed  transaction  which  
he says he didnt make, totalling £1,033.87.
background
On 03 August 2018 at 15.11 an online transaction for £1,033.87 was made  using Mr Ls 
business credit card.  The transaction appeared on Mr Ls statement as debiting the account 
on 06 August 2018. Mr L complained to HSBC  on 22 August 2018, saying he hadnt  made  
the transaction and was on a flight on 06 August.  
Mr L has since provided us with an email from the supplier (where the payment went) to 
show the goods it distributed  (which were tools), the delivery address  within  the UK, the 
signature accepting  the goods, an email address and a mobile number   all of which he says 
doesnt match his details or anyone  he knew.
HSBC looked  into Mr Ls complaint.  It says the initial call where Mr L reported the 
transactions was cut off.  HSBC notes show that it tried to contact Mr L by phone, but 
couldnt reach him. It sent a letter  dated 03 September 2018 to Mr L, asking for more details 
about what had happened. It didnt receive a response and sent a further letter dated 
12 September 2018 saying it wouldnt progress things further as it hadnt heard from Mr L. In 
this letter  HSBC also said that the device  ID used to make the disputed transaction  matched 
a genuine transaction Mr L had made in the past. 
Mr L contacted HSBC to say he was unhappy  with the response.  HSBC issued its final 
response on 25 September  2018. It concluded  that the device used to make  the disputed  
transaction was the same  device Mr L had used previously, specifically on 12 July 2018 to 
make an online payment.
Unhappy with HSBCs final response  Mr L referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into things. She also concluded  the same device that was 
used to make the disputed transaction had been  used to make genuine transactions by Mr L. 
And because Mr L had described how securely  he kept his card and who had access  to his 
devices, she couldnt see that it was possible for anyone other than Mr L, or someone acting 
with his authority,  to have made  these  transactions. She also considered the different IP 
address that had been used throughout Mr Ls online banking history  but Mr L explained that 
he uses a Virtual Private Network (VPN) so it cant be traced where hes using any of his 
devices, so this information was a red herring. The investigator concluded  that HSBC  didnt  
need to refund Mr L.
Mr L disagreed, in summary he said:
-it was impossible for him to prove that he didnt make the transaction  and he also 
believes HSBCs  evidence is inconclusive;
-he wants to see the proof the transaction was made from the same  device as a 
previous genuine transaction;
-the investigator said that the transaction didnt look fraudulent  and he believes his 
actions are those of an honest person  as there  is no need for him to make a 
fraudulent claim  hes never exceeded his limit on his card, hes never been in an 
overdraft or made a claim on any of his HSBC  accounts;
Ref: DRN34140712-he can only think of two occasions when he purchased tools for his business and 
those have not been to the same  location  that these tools  were dispatched to;
-he thought  a minimum of 50/50 gesture of goodwill should have been considered 
unless there is inconclusive proof from HSBC; and
-the ombudsman  service should be aware of the proficiency of card fraudsters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so Ive come to the same  conclusions as the investigator and Ill explain why.
The device ID
Ive seen the evidence that HSBC has provided  showing  the device ID used to make  both 
the disputed transaction and a genuine  transaction on 12 July 2018.  And Im persuaded they 
show the same device was used on both occasions.  
I have also seen that there are several different  IP addresses used for Mr Ls genuine online 
banking usage.  I have considered his explanation for this, by using a VPN, so I havent relied 
on this information.  But I think the device ID information is persuasive. 
Mr Ls card details
Mr Ls card details were used to make  this transaction. Mr L has said that his credit card was 
still in his possession  after he discovered  the disputed  transaction  meaning  it wasnt stolen 
or lost when  the transaction  took place. Mr L says he kept his cards  in his wallet and if thats  
not on him then he leaves it in a locked  and alarmed environment, which no-one has access 
to and he only lives with his wife. 
Considering what  Mr L has told us, I cant see how anyone else could have accessed Mr Ls 
card without his knowledge  or consent to carry out the transaction.
Other information 
In addition to his card being used and the same device Mr L had genuinely used  being  
present, Mr L says his devices are password protected. So again Im not sure how someone 
could have accessed the device without his knowledge or consent. He hasnt  said that 
anyone else knew these  passwords or that he kept a record  of them  anywhere.
Mr Ls online banking was logged in to 33 times in between the disputed  transaction  taking 
place but before he reported it to HSBC  on 22 August 2018.  I find it unusual that he didnt 
notice the transaction, given that he doesnt  seem to use his credit card all that often.  He 
says that he noticed the transaction when he received his paper statement. But I think  its 
possible he did notice the payment but didnt dispute  it at the time as he did make  it but has 
since forgotten. 
When he first reported the disputed  transaction to HSBC he said it was possible he made 
the transaction but he doesnt  recognise the retailer or the amounts. Again I think its possible 
Mr L made the transaction but has since forgotten although I appreciate  his strength of 
argument that it wasnt him. 
Ref: DRN34140713I also accept its possible it wasnt Mr L that made  the transaction  and he seems adamant  
and genuine  in his recollections  that he didnt do this. But given how the transaction  was 
made I dont think it could have happened without his authority.  I think the device and the 
card details are most likely to have been  obtained with his permission. Its possible Mr L 
didnt know this particular  transaction was being made  but I dont think it was made by an 
unknown fraudster or someone  acting without his knowledge or consent. I havent been  
persuaded of a plausible explanation for how someone could have obtained his card details 
(given how he says these are secured)  and accessed his device, which  was password 
protected, without him sharing this information. So I think someone  made  this transaction 
with his authority.  And because I think this it is fair for HSBC  to hold him liable for the 
transaction. 
my final decision
As Ive set out above, I dont uphold  Mr Ls complaint against  HSBC Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Sophia Smith 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3414071