K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  he applied for in 2001. He paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. This policy  covered  Mr P for unemployment only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
Although Mr P has said that PPI was added without his knowledge,  Ive not seen 
evidence to support  what hes said. Copies of the paperwork  Mr P completed at the 
time of sale arent available, but Ive considered what  we know more  widely  about 
how Santander sold PPI in branch around the time this policy was taken out.
Ive not seen strong evidence that Santander  didnt follow their normal  sales process 
and I think its more  likely than not that the PPI was presented as optional before 
Mr P agreed to take it out.
Ive also noted  that Santander have been able to show us a copy  of a welcome  
letter that they say was sent to Mr P in January 2002. Had the PPI been added 
without his knowledge, I think that Mr P would quite reasonably  have questioned  the 
PPI at that point.  But I havent seen evidence that he did and the PPI remained on 
his account for some  time after it was taken out.
Ive also noted  that unemployment only cover was selected when there would have 
been a choice for other cover  including accident  and sickness cover.  This again 
supports that its more  likely than not that some discussion and decision took place 
about PPI and the unemployment only level of cover was selected.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr P, and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. 
As well as making a suitable recommendation, Santander also had to give Mr P good 
enough information about the PPI so that he could decide if he wanted to take it out. 
Its possible that some of the information  wasnt as good as it should have been. For 
example, Ive assumed that Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy 
better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr P would  still have  bought it. 
Ref: DRN34361562Its possible Mr P didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Mr P 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ps comments,  including what  hes said about not needing  PPI 
because of his existing means of making his repayments if he was made unemployed. But I 
dont think that Mr Ps existing means  made the recommendation to take PPI unsuitable. 
I say this because:
 
othe PPI policy  would have paid out for up to 12 months which is for longer than       
Mr Ps savings  likely  would  have  lasted; 
oalthough Mr P has said that he would have  been entitled to redundancy worth 18 
months of his salary,  Ive not seen evidence  to support what  hes said.  Given Mr Ps 
job sector and his length of employment, I think that its more  likely than not that his 
redundancy entitlement was less than what he thinks it was; 
oMr P has also said he could  have  sold his car to make his repayments, but having 
this PPI policy would have meant that that the chances of him having to take such an 
action would be reduced. Ive also kept in mind  that the value  of the car may not have 
been guaranteed and it would most likely decrease in value over time; and
oMr Ps parents may have wanted to help him, but circumstances can change and 
they may not have been in a position to help when needed
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3436156