K820x#14complaint
Ms K has complained about  the decision of U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  to decline her 
claim and cancel her contents  insurance  policy after she suffered a theft at her home. UKI 
did this because it considered that Ms K had made a fraudulent  claim.
background
In January 2018, Ms Ks home was robbed.  The thieves caused damage to her property and 
stole a quantity  of cash and jewellery.  Ms K made  a claim  under her policy which  UKI 
accepted. It made payments to cover the cost of damage to Ms Ks property and loss of cash 
while it continued to assess her loss of jewellery. It asked Ms K to provide photographic 
evidence to show shed  possessed the items which shed reported stolen.
Eventually, in November  2018, UKI advised  Ms K that it believed  she had behaved 
fraudulently. This was because digital evidence showed that photos she had provided of two 
of the alleged stolen jewellery items,  a brooch  and a bracelet, had been taken after the 
robbery. It considered that Ms K had failed to provide  a satisfactory  explanation  of this 
discrepancy, particularly  in respect of the brooch. In view of this, it said it didnt believe the 
brooch had been stolen  in the robbery. It said it was therefore declining her claim in its 
entirety and cancelling her policy. It furthermore  said that she would need  to pay back the 
money she had already  received (£5,821),  plus a further sum (£2,085)  to cover the costs 
which it had incurred in dealing with her claim. And it said it would share this information with 
fraud prevention agencies  which might affect  Ms Ks ability to obtain insurance  in future.
Ms K complained to UKI about its decision,  explaining that she had been robbed of the items 
for which she had claimed, albeit  that the photos  werent of the actual stolen items. UKI 
wouldnt change its decision.  Ms K therefore referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  UKI 
had acted reasonably.
Ms K didnt accept the investigators  findings. She maintained that she had only claimed for 
items which had been stolen.  UKI had pushed  her to provide photos of the items  and she 
had tried to help. She acknowledged shed made a mistake in responding to questions  about 
the photographs but said this had been because she was confused and misunderstood  what 
was being asked. She considered that UKI had set out to find reasons to escape liability  for 
her claim and had acted unfairly  and vindictively in accusing her of fraud.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ms K claimed for thirteen items of stolen jewellery. She didnt know  the value of the items 
though the policy had a valuables limit of £15,000  and a single article limit of £2,000.
Ms K was asked to provide information to enable UKIs claim handling agent to value the 
stolen items.  She explained to the agent in February 2018 that she didnt have receipts or 
Ref: DRN31091832photos of herself  wearing  the items but she provided  photos of twelve pieces of jewellery. 
She confirmed to the agent that the photos  were of the actual items which were stolen. The 
agent asked her in particular  about the photo of the bracelet and she confirmed  that this was 
the actual stolen item. The agent  asked her approximately when the photo was taken but 
she said she couldnt remember.
The agent  noted from the digital data attached to the images that two of the photographs   
of the bracelet and a brooch  had been taken at Ms Ks home since the time of the robbery,  
meaning they couldnt have been  photos  of the actual  items stolen in the robbery. Im 
satisfied that this assessment was correct. The agent highlighted this concern to UKI.
In March 2018, UKI spoke to Ms K. She initially said that, apart from photographs of two 
items which incorporated coins, none  of the photographs were of the actual stolen items but 
they were of very similar  items to help UKIs agent  to value the stolen items. However, later 
in the call she said that the brooch was a photo of the actual item which had been  stolen and 
explained that this had been taken some time ago when she needed to get it repaired.
Following the call, UKI emailed Ms K. It asked her to confirm the details of what  was in the 
photos. Ms K said that only the two photographs of the items incorporating coins  were of the 
actual stolen items and that all the other photos  were of items which closely  resembled the 
stolen items.  She said she couldnt remember the dates the photos were  taken  or the 
camera which was used.
In April 2018, UKI arranged for a loss adjuster to interview Ms K. She said that most  of the 
photos, including those of the bracelet and brooch, were not of the actual stolen items but 
were of similar items belonging  to her sister. She confirmed she had no receipts to show  
proof of ownership of the items.
UKI obtained a copy of the police report of the robbery but while this was consistent  with 
Ms Ks account, it gave  no breakdown of the items which had allegedly  been  stolen.
UKI tried to contact Ms Ks sister  as it wished  to ask her about the photographs  which  she 
had apparently supplied to Ms K. However, the sister didnt respond.
In November 2018, UKI spoke again to Ms K. It asked her about  the photographs  of the 
bracelet and the brooch.  Ms K again said the bracelet  photo  was not of the actual stolen item 
but of a similar item belonging to her sister.  She said the photo of the brooch was the original 
photo of the actual item which was stolen.  When UKI explained to Ms K that the digital  data 
showed the photo had been taken at her home since the time of the robbery, Ms K said it 
must have  been  a photo of a screen  shot. UKI said it had concerns over the discrepancies  in 
Ms Ks account. It asked her to send  it the original photo. However,  Ms K didnt provide this.
Im satisfied from the evidence available that Ms K initially misled UKI in February 2018 by 
saying that the photos of the bracelet  and brooch  were of the actual items stolen in the 
robbery. In respect of the bracelet, Ms K corrected herself in March 2018  and has since 
been consistent in saying  that this photo was not of the actual stolen item but of a similar 
item belonging to her sister. However,  in respect of the brooch, she clearly  provided 
misleading information in March 2018  and has provided inconsistent  information since  then. 
I consider that Ms K has been given the opportunity  to explain the discrepancies in the 
information she has given  but has failed to do so. I therefore consider it was reasonable for 
UKI to doubt that Ms K was robbed of the brooch  for which she was claiming and to 
conclude that she had deliberately given false information to make  a financial gain.
Ref: DRN31091833The policy states,  under  the heading  Fraud:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times.
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person  insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to 
deceive us or knowingly makes  a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
 your policy may be cancelled
 we may reject your claim  and any subsequent claims
 we may keep any premium  you have paid.
The policy goes on to state what happens in the event that fraud  is discovered:  
We have the right to cancel any other products  you hold with us and share information 
about your behaviour with other  organisations to prevent further  fraud.
We may also involve the relevant authorities  who are empowered  to bring criminal 
proceedings.
If a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim has been  made under  any other policy  you hold 
with us, we may cancel  this policy.
In light of this, I consider  it was fair for UKI to decline Ms Ks claim and to cancel her policy.  
UKI has dated this cancellation from the time she provided the image  of the brooch but, 
given that it disputes that any such brooch was stolen in the robbery, UKI could reasonably 
have dated the cancellation  from the time of claim. I consider it is entitled under  the terms of 
the policy to share the information  about  the cancellation with other  organisations. 
Furthermore, given that Ms K appears  to have made a fraudulent  claim,  I consider it is not 
unreasonable for UKI to seek  to recover its costs. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3109183