K822xcomplaint
Mr A1 is unhappy with the increases on his late fathers (Mr A) premiums  on his buildings  
and contents insurance policies,  held with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
Mr As contents insurance policy with UKI started in May 2008 and it included personal 
possessions cover. It initially cost Mr A £153.30  for the year. The following  year it cost £273.
In January 2009, a separate buildings insurance policy was taken out. It initially  cost 
£107.10. 
So in 2009, the combined cost for both policies was £380.10
 
In 2010, Mr As health deteriorated and Mr A1 became Mr As power of attorney.  Mr A1 says 
he informed Mr As bank during a meeting.
Mr As policies  increased in cost over the years  and in 2016,  Mr As combined  annual 
premium for both policies  was £806.83  for the year.
Mr A sadly  passed away in December 2016.  Mr A1, having looked through his late fathers  
paperwork, discovered the insurance  renewal notices and was unhappy with how much  Mr A 
had being paying. 
Mr A1 complained to UKI. Mr A1 says that he visited the bank in in 2010 to inform it of his 
power of attorney regarding Mr As financial affairs and was upset that UKI hadnt been  
contacting him over the years  about  Mr As home insurance and renewals. Mr A1 thought 
UKI had taken advantage of Mr A firstly  by not combining his policies  making the overall  
cost cheaper and by increasing the cost of the policy every year. He says Mr A was charged 
too much  and should be reimbursed for the extra he paid over the years.  
UKI reviewed Mr A1s concerns. It said that when  the policies were set up in 2008  and 2009 
they couldnt have been combined. UKI said the premiums Mr A was charged  over the years 
were correct. UKI also explained it had sent renewal  quotes each year which set out the cost 
and neither the bank or Mr A1 had informed  it of Mr As deteriorating health or that Mr A1 
held power of attorney. So it was unaware that Mr A1 was acting on behalf of Mr A. And as 
there had been  no contact, the policies remained as they were  separate.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr A1 referred  the complaint to our service.
While the complaint was with our service, UKI as a gesture  of goodwill, offered to refund 
some of the cost of the insurance. 
Recently it offered Mr A1 £1,906.63  as a refund of some of the premiums and £634.71 (after 
tax) as additional compensation  set at 8% simple  interest per year for Mr A being out of 
pocket of that money. The compensation totalled  £2,541.34 which  UKI explained it would 
round up to £2,600. It then also offered £400  for the trouble and upset caused to Mr A1 in 
bringing the complaint.
 
So UKIs total offer of compensation came  to £3,000.
Ref: DRN38646992Mr A1 remained  unhappy with UKIs offer and thought the compensation should  be higher.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to explain to Mr A1 that I dont  have the power to tell a business what  its 
insurance should have cost. I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it 
should operate  and thats  not my role. 
But I can look at whether UKI treated Mr A fairly throughout the period he held his insurance 
policy. 
If I find that UKI hasnt  treated Mr A fairly,  I will look to see what compensation would be fair 
and, in this case,  whether I think what UKI has offered is fair. 
In 2009 when Mr A had both his buildings insurance and contents insurance  with UKI it cost 
a combined amount of £380.10 for the year.  After  this, Mr As premiums continued to 
increase each year and there wasnt any engagement with UKI with each renewal. 
 
The most significant reason for the lack of engagement appears to be Mr As health which 
deteriorated in 2010 leading to Mr A1 holding power  of attorney.
Mr A1 was concerned  that UKI may have taken advantage of Mr A due to his deteriorating 
health. Mr A considered  the policies should  have been combined, saving Mr A some money 
and Mr A1 says he is also unhappy  he wasnt contacted by UKI when he held power  of 
attorney from 2010.
I understand Mr A1s concerns, but I disagree. It seems that while  Mr A1 informed Mr As 
bank about the power  of attorney  neither the bank nor Mr A1 informed  UKI. So UKI wasnt  
aware of Mr As personal  circumstances from 2010  onwards  and UKI wasnt  aware Mr A1 
held power of attorney until Mr A1 contacted  it in 2017.
That said,  there were two policies in place  and there wasnt  any engagement from Mr A (or 
Mr A1  for reasons  now known) with UKI over the renewals. 
As there wasnt any engagement  Mr As separate buildings  insurance  and contents  
insurance policies  continued to run as they were.
If UKI should have  realised Mr A wasnt the type of person  who shopped around for cheaper 
insurance regularly,  and it increased  the price just because he didnt engage  at renewal, that 
wouldnt be fair. And possibly in the later years, when it was known  that Mr A wasnt  
engaging with his renewals, UKI could have done more  for Mr A  potentially looking to see 
whether combining  his policies would have been  worthwhile  or something Mr A could benefit 
from.
But, in this case, UKI has now offered  to refund some of the cost of the insurance policies.
UKI, as explained earlier, has offered £3,000 to resolve the matter. Having looked UKIs  offer 
I think its fair.
Ref: DRN38646993Mr A1 thinks  UKI should  pay more in compensation, partly  due to the new policy he obtained 
which was cheaper.  While I appreciate that Mr A1 subsequently obtained a cheaper  quote 
for the home  insurance, Im also mindful the new home insurance policy obtained  included  a 
new customer introductory  discount.  An introductory  discount  isnt uncommon, and policies 
are often priced lower  to attract new customers.  I dont think  its unfair for an insurer  to seek  
to recoup that cost over the subsequent  years.  And I dont think its fair to expect an insurer  
to maintain that discount for the duration  someone has their policy.
So I dont  think it would  be fair for UKI to use the policy quote Mr A1 obtained (which  had a 
discount) when working out its offer. 
I also note that in correspondence with our investigator  Mr A1 said that he would agree to 
the following:
1. £2000 for over payments.
 2. Interest at the agreed 8%.
 3. £1500 compensation for distress, suffering and inconvenience
 
Mr A1 further explained that if UKI agreed to this offer, he wouldnt make a further claim for 
the nine years of buildings insurance.
First, I would like to clarify that UKIs investigation, the investigators assessment and this 
decision does involve  both insurance policies - so both the buildings and the contents. 
The list of premiums our investigator detailed  within  their assessment wasnt just the 
premium costs for the contents insurance. It was the combined cost of both policies. And 
UKIs offer to refund  some of the cost of the insurance  was in relation to both policies. I 
apologise to Mr A1 if this hadnt come across  clearly before now.
Overall, UKI to resolve the complaint, has refunded £1,906.63 of the approximate £5,000 
total Mr A had paid,  (combined) over the lifetime of the policies. All things considered  that 
seems fair. 
Mr A1 also wanted UKI to pay more than the £400  it offered  as additional  compensation. I do 
understand that Mr A1 feels  very strongly  about  his fathers complaint. But as explained  
earlier, UKI wasnt aware of Mr As deteriorating health or that Mr A1 held power of attorney 
from 2010. And UKI has offered  to refund a significant amount of the insurance premiums  
Mr A paid. Given this, I think its offer of £400 to recognise the trouble caused to Mr A1 in 
bringing the complaint is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, U K Insurance Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mr As policy  is fair.
U K Insurance Limiteds additional compensation offer of £400 for the trouble caused  is also 
fair. 
Ref: DRN38646994Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A1 and Mr A2 
on behalf of the late Mr As estate to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.  
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3864699