K820x#14complaint
Mrs K and Mr H complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with their porting application and recommending  a mortgage 
product previously, and by charging  them an early repayment charge (ERC).  They  want  the 
ERC repaid.
background
Mrs K and Mr H had a mortgage product with RBS,  which if repaid early  meant  theyd have 
to pay an ERC. They  wanted  to transfer  (port) the product and its interest rate to a new 
property. But the new property had land, which RBS said meant  it wasnt  an acceptable 
property to be under the original mortgage  product  and the porting application couldnt  
continue. RBS also said that if Mrs K and Mr H proceeded to repay the original mortgage 
product early  in order to buy the new property, they would be charged  the ERC.  They  paid 
the ERC  as Mrs K and Mr H said that opportunities like this arose rarely.
Mrs K and Mr H complained to RBS.  It said it recommended  a five year product to 
Mrs K and Mr H based on what they had told RBS at the time. RBS said it had been told that 
they wanted stability and protection from increases to the interest rate. And it pointed out 
that while the mortgage was portable, all the mortgage documents said that such  
applications were  subject to its lending policies  at the time. Mrs K and Mr H accepted the 
mortgage offer. RBS explained that lending policies changed and it wasnt possible to 
foresee the future. It confirmed that the amount of land that came with the new property 
meant it was outside its lending  policies.
Mrs K and Mr H complained to us. The investigators  view was that RBS wasnt at fault. She 
said that porting  wasnt guaranteed and it was made clear that it depended  on the lending 
policies in place  at the time. The investigator said that the mortgage was portable,  and there 
was no evidence that the future dreams to owe a property with land was discussed when 
advice was given  about the mortgage.  She didnt think  the mortgage  product was mis-sold or 
that all the lending policies shouldve been  set out in advance.
Mrs K and Mr H disagreed. They said that they had intended to move  when they took advice 
from RBS about the mortgage product taken out. The investigator pointed out that this 
wasnt what they told this service initially and had said they didnt  plan to move until the new 
property became available. Mrs K and Mr H said that portability had been important to them 
as they thought that they might move in the future.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31845062While I appreciate why Mrs K and Mr H wanted  to move, that isnt relevant to the issue  as to 
whether RBS acted  fairly and reasonably. ERCs are lawful if set out clearly in the offer 
documents and are a genuine pre-estimate of loss if the mortgage  is repaid early. 
Mrs K and Mr H arent arguing  that the ERCs are unlawful; they accept that they knew about 
the ERC  which was set out to them in advance in writing. Their  point is that they wanted to 
port the product  to the new property, and as RBS refused, it isnt fair or reasonable to charge 
the ERC,  even though as a matter of law, its due and payable. Mrs K and Mr H also said 
that they wanted a portable  mortgage  in the first place as they knew  theyd probably want  to 
move in the future.
Porting applications  are subject to the lending policies in place at the time of application. 
RBS lending policy at the time meant  the new property wasnt  acceptable. Lenders are able 
to use their commercial judgement about  their lending policies, provided that theyre applied 
fairly and reasonably. Having looked at the evidence available to me, I cant say that RBS 
has applied  its lending  policy unfairly  or unreasonably to Mrs K and Mr H. The new property 
didnt meet the requirements, and it was Mrs K and Mr Hs choice to stick with the property 
and change lender, rather than find an acceptable  property or wait. I understand why that 
decision was made, but it doesnt mean  RBS has acted  unfairly  or unreasonably.
I noted that when  discussing the original mortgage with RBS,  Mrs K and Mr H told it that they 
didnt intend to change their circumstances  or to move home; this wasnt correct. I think  if 
theyd said otherwise, it wouldve been recorded in the very detailed  fact find carried  out and 
Mrs K and Mr H shouldve  have objected to what was recorded  within  the suitability letter  
they were sent if it wasnt correct. Instead, they accepted the recommendation. I think that 
its more likely than not that Mrs K and Mr H told RBS that they didnt  intend  to increase their 
family or move. Advisers can only advise on the basis of the information  that theyre given 
and cant predict the future.
I cant say that RBS was unfair or unreasonable when  advising on the mortgage product 
itself and the portability of the product   the documents made it clear  that the product was 
portable as long as the lending policies at the time were  met. Mrs K and Mr H feel that the 
advisor shouldve  known all the lending policies. But they do change often and some  policies  
are commercially  sensitive. It isnt unfair or unreasonable  for an advisor not to tell a 
consumer all the lending  policies (and it wouldnt be practical as there are lots) of the lender, 
or to know  the future policies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3184506