K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out a PPI policy in 1999. The policy was added to Mr Bs credit  card account when 
he applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mr B says he doesnt think it was made sufficiently clear to him that the policy  was optional. 
But I can see that he ticked  a box on the card application form he signed to indicate that he 
wanted to take this insurance. Mr B says that he feels he was misled into ticking the box 
because RBS said it strongly recommended the PPI on this form. However,  I still think he 
would have known  at the time that he could have chosen not to take this cover  if he hadnt  
wanted it. 
So although  the application form doesnt specifically state that the PPI is optional, I dont 
think I could fairly conclude that RBS misled him into thinking, either that he had to take it, or 
that it would  improve  his chances of being  accepted for a credit card if he did so. On the 
evidence Ive seen  I think its most  likely that Mr B actively  decided to take this insurance  
knowing he had a choice.
RBS says that, as this was a postal application,  this was a non-advised sale of PPI. And I 
agree that this is likely  to have been the case.  This is because,  although RBS strongly 
recommended that the policy was taken out on its application form, this recommendation 
was a general one to all postal card applicants and wasnt  based  on an assessment of its 
particular suitability for Mr B, given  his specific circumstances  at the time.
But even for a non-advised sale like this one, RBS still needed to give Mr B enough 
information about the policy for him to decide if he wanted to take it. And from what  Ive 
seen, I dont think the information  that RBS gave him was as good as it should have been. 
So in these  circumstances  I need to decide  whether I think  that Mr B would still have  wanted  
to take out the policy if hed been  given better  information about it. And from what I know  of 
his circumstances  at the time, I think he would. I say this because:
It appears that Mr B was eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN33495402Mr B says he was eligible for generous sick pay and other benefits from his employer. 
He also says he had some savings and other benefits he could have used to make  his 
card repayments if he couldnt  work. And he says that his family would have helped  him 
out in need. But this policy would  have paid out in addition  to any other means  he had 
available. It would  have paid out ten percent of the outstanding balance on his card 
account each  month  and for up to twelve months if he couldnt  work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. So I still think he would have valued the extra 
security this insurance gave him.
Ive no reason to think that the cost of the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr B. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  he could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met his needs.
So after carefully  considering all the information  available to me, including  all the points 
made by Mr B in his response to the adjudicators view, I dont think  Mr B has lost out by 
anything that RBS did wrong  when it sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
It follows from what Ive said that Im not upholding this complaint  against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3349540