K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs T. FICL didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2004 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs T was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs T has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mrs T filled in and signed,  does set out the PPI as a choice, which you 
make by signing the PPI section   and I can see that Mrs T has signed this part. So I 
think FICL did offer the PPI as a choice, and Mrs T agreed to take it  even though its 
not surprising  if she doesnt remember the details  of what  happened  so long ago.
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Ts individual needs. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted  her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs T to decide whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs T clear and fair information,  so she could  make  an 
informed choice.  And Im not sure that it did do this properly   at least  the information  
on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other information was given 
to Mrs T. So Ive thought  about  whether better  information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mrs Ts circumstances  at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely  to have made a difference to her decision.  
I say this because  its fairly  likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her 
full employer sick pay lasted.  And it would have been in addition to any employer sick 
pay or redundancy pay. And she could have kept any savings in reserve for longer. So 
the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like shed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
Mrs T has given different recollections of how much sick pay shed have got at the time,  but 
has said she doesnt have  a way of proving the higher amounts she mentioned at one point. 
This isnt strong enough evidence for me to say fairly that shed have made a different 
decision, if shed  been given better information  about the benefits  and costs  of the PPI. And 
even with a high level of employer sick pay, shed still have received some benefit  from the 
PPI policy, as it would have paid out in addition to employer sick pay. 
Ref: DRN35581152my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3558115