K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1996. Mr J says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, HSBC had to make it clear to Mr J that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr J says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional and that it was added  without his 
knowledge.
HSBC has sent us a copy  of Mr Js application  form for the credit card.  This included a 
section on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to be ticked to show  whether Mr J wanted  to take it 
out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.
If Mr J didnt want the PPI, I think he could have ticked  the no box. So I think HSBC  did 
make it clear  to him that he had a choice about the PPI. And that he chose to take it, 
knowing he didnt have  to.
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr J, so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr J got the information he needed to decide  if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr J told us he didnt have any sick pay or other means he couldve used to make 
his repayments  if he wasnt  earning. So the policy could  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong.
Mr J has said he was self-employed at the time. But the policy  did cover self-employed 
people. And it didnt make it significantly more  difficult for them to claim than for employed  
people. Mr J also doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the other  exclusions  to or 
limits on the PPI cover. So I still think the policy could have been useful for him.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about it would 
have put Mr J off taking out the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr J, that 
was unfair.
Ref: DRN35799592To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr T has mentioned several  court  cases in relation  to non-disclosure of commission, and 
thinks that HSBC should  refund all of the money paid for the PPI as a result.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint, is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case, HSBC  has made Mr T an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr T wants  
HSBC to do something different.
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr T and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about  them that would mean the business  should do something  different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr T. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ts complaint  or circumstances  that suggest the redress paid 
by HSBC isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think HSBCs offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3579959