K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the delays, poor communication and errors they experienced 
when they applied for a new mortgage  product with Clydesdale Bank PLC.
Mr and Mrs L say that as a result  of Clydesdales errors they are paying a higher monthly 
mortgage repayment than they were quoted. They say they dont think  Clydesdale has 
properly taken account of the impact its errors have had on their financial situation.
background
Mr and Mrs L hold a repayment mortgage  with Clydesdale. In March  2018 they contacted  it 
to discuss arranging a new mortgage  product. Their existing fixed  rate was due to expire 
shortly.
A product switch  offer,  dated 14 March 2018,  was sent to Mr and Mrs L. The offer was for a 
two year fixed rate at 1.74% with a monthly  mortgage repayment of £921.14.  The repayment 
was based on a remaining mortgage term of 13 years and 4 months. Unfortunately  this term 
was incorrect. 
A revised  product switch  offer dated 17 April 2018 was then produced. This offer used the 
same product, a two year fixed rate of 1.74%, but was based on the correct remaining term 
of 12 years and 3 months. As the term was shorter the monthly  repayments  were around 
£60 higher that the March  offer that had used a longer mortgage  term.
Mr and Mrs L did not receive this revised  product switch offer. 
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs L contacted Clydesdale as their monthly  mortgage  payment was 
higher than they had expected. A £1,181.70 payment had been  taken from their bank 
account. Clydesdale agreed it had made an error. It said it had applied its standard variable 
rate, rather  than the new fixed  rate to their mortgage. It refunded £200.09. This was the 
difference between  their monthly repayment based  on the April 2018 product switch  offer 
and the amount they had been charged.
It then came to light that Mr and Mrs L had not received the revised  product  switch offer 
produced in April 2018. As this was the case they expected their monthly repayment to be 
£921.14.
In order to resolve matters Clydesdale credited  their mortgage account  with the difference 
between the £921.14 monthly  repayment quoted in the March offer and the correct  monthly  
payment of £981.61,  based on Mr and Mrs Ls remaining mortgage term. It paid this sum 
(£1,451.28) to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage account in August 2018. 
Clydesdale also paid Mr and Mrs L £200  for the trouble and upset this matter had caused 
them.
Mr and Mrs L did not feel that Clydesdale had done  enough to put matters  right.  They 
brought their complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator said he felt that Clydesdale had acted reasonably and he didnt think  it 
needed to do any more. He noted that Mr and Mr L said they had not received the updated 
product switch offer dated 17 April 2018. But he said he was satisfied that it had been 
Ref: DRN37098452produced and issued. He said he couldnt reasonably hold Clydesdale responsible for any 
failings by the postal service.
He noted that Clydesdale had credited  their mortgage account  with this total difference  
between the incorrect  repayment figure quoted  in March 2018 (£921.14)  and the correct  
monthly repayment amount of £981.61, for the term of the fixed  rate. It had also paid Mr and 
Mrs L £200 for the trouble  and upset this matter had caused them.
He said he felt this was fair in the circumstances  of their complaint and he didnt think  it 
needed to do any more. 
Mr and Mrs L did not accept our adjudicators view. 
They said they did not feel that Clydesdale  had treated them  fairly or honestly. In particular 
they said that if a revised product switch offer had been sent in April 2018  they felt they 
should also have  received  a letter explaining that an error had been made. And they said 
they felt they should have been  asked  to accept the revised offer.  
Mr and Mrs L said they had spoken to Clydesdale  several times  in May 2018 to check that 
their signed  offer had been  accepted. Despite this the new fixed  rate was not applied to their 
mortgage until Mr and Mrs L complained that their mortgage repayment was higher than 
they had expected in June 2018.
Our adjudicator responded to say that he hadnt seen anything to show that Mr and Mrs L 
were unhappy  with the fixed rate they had chosen in March 2018. He noted that in the calls 
he had reviewed Mr and Mrs L were  satisfied with the product discussed. 
He said he felt that Mr and Mrs Ls concerns related to the error Clydesdale  made when  it 
used the wrong  mortgage term in its calculations. This had resulted  in the monthly  
repayment quoted in the March 2018  offer being  too low. He reiterated that he felt the steps  
Clydesdale had taken  to put matters  right were fair and he didnt think it needed to do any 
more to resolve this issue.
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy.  They asked for proof that the revised offer dated  17 April 
2018 had been produced and sent to them. 
They also reiterated  that they were  unhappy that Clydesdale had increased their monthly  
mortgage repayment without contacting them to explain that it had made  an error, or to 
check that they still wanted  to go ahead despite the higher monthly  repayment.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Clydesdale needs  to do more  than it has already done  to put 
matters right. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute  that the service  Mr and Mrs L received from Clydesdale was poor.  
Clydesdale made  an error  when  it used the wrong mortgage term in the product  switch offer 
it sent in March 2018. It also failed to move their mortgage to the new product until Mr and 
Mrs L contacted it in June 2018.
Ref: DRN37098453Mr L has said:
My grievance is that I think  that it is completely wrong to apply a change  to a customer's  rate 
without notice or the accompanying  signed paperwork, 
I agree  that when  this error  came to light it would have been  helpful if Clydesdale had 
contacted Mr and Mrs L to let them know about the mistake and that the monthly  mortgage  
payment would be around £60 higher that it had quoted in March  2018. It is very unfortunate 
that Mr and Mrs L didnt  receive the revised  offer sent in April 2018. But as our adjudicator  
explained this service cant reasonably hold Clydesdale responsible for any failings by the 
postal service. 
Mr and Mrs L have said they would like proof  that Clydesdale sent the revised offer.  I 
appreciate their concern. But cant reasonably find that Clydesdale  deliberately failed to send 
the revised offer as there is nothing to suggest that this is the case. 
I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint that they are now paying around £60 more per 
month than they expected. But I must take into account that Clydesdale  credited their 
mortgage account with £1,451.28 in August 2018  the total difference  over the term of the 
fixed rate between the amount quoted in the March 2018 offer and the correct monthly 
repayment based on their outstanding mortgage term.
So although  their monthly repayments remain higher  that they expected  their mortgage 
balance has been  reduced to compensate them for Clydesdales  error. I also note that this 
higher monthly  repayment is still around  £20 per month less than they were  paying on their 
previous mortgage  product.
In addition Clydesdale has paid them £200  for the trouble  and upset this matter has caused  
them. I think the actions  Clydesdale has taken to put matters right are fair and reasonable 
and I dont think it needs to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I am satisfied that the steps  Clydesdale  
Bank PLC has taken to put matters right are fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3709845