K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  refused part of her 
claim against her smart paint insurance  motor policy. 
All references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
In April 2018, Mrs L made a claim against her policy for the repair  of what she described as 
a minor scratch/scuff at the bottom of the rear, passenger door and a minor scratch/scuff on 
the drivers side wing mirror. 
Red Sands  repaired  the wing mirror but refused Mrs Ls claim in relation to the rear, 
passenger door. In its final response  to Mrs L, Red Sands  said that there  was additional  
damage to the rear passenger door and the damage went on to the front passenger  door, 
rear left quarter  and bumper. It said that its repairer  said it wasnt  possible to repair  the 
damage separately and it would be one large  repair of more  than 300mm,  which wasnt  
covered by her policy.
Mrs L says that the front passenger door wasnt damaged. She doesnt  think  its reasonable 
to calculate the area of repair by including tiny scratches that she hadnt claimed for. Mrs L 
wants Red Sands to admit its mistake  and refund her premium.
Our investigator didnt  think that Red Sands had treated Mrs L fairly. He said that it had 
mixed up the damage Mrs L was claiming for and in its final response,  it referred to damage  
on the drivers side of the car, not the passengers  side. The investigator  said that the policy  
terms dont provide that if there is other damage  in close proximity to the damage  claimed  
for, the area of damage will be measured together.  So, he didnt think  that Red Sands was 
right to refuse part of Mrs Ls claim. The investigator  recommended  that Red Sands settle 
Mrs Ls claim under the remaining terms of her policy. 
Mrs L accepted  the investigators view but Red Sands didnt. It said it made an error when it 
initially sent the photos of the drivers side of Mrs Ls car to this service  but it correctly  
assessed the damage on the rear, passenger door. 
Red Sands  said that the policy refers to a repair of up to 300mm  in length,  not damage. It 
said that the expert opinion of its repairer was that the damage to the left side would require 
one repair  altogether, which would be larger than 300mm in length.  Red Sands said that 
there was nothing to contradict that. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32483902The central issue for me to determine is whether Red Sands acted fairly  in refusing part of 
Mrs Ls claim. The starting point is Mrs Ls policy, which  says:
What is Covered
[]
Body Panel Scratches and Dents: Repairs to outer body panels up to 300mm  in 
length and 3mm  in depth.
and
What is Not Covered
Any damage that exceeds the length and depth parameters as set out above.
 
Red Sands  seeks to rely on the exclusion under the policy,  so its for Red Sands to show  
that the damage exceeds 300mm in length. I dont think its done  that here and Ill explain 
why. 
Red Sands  says that the expert opinion of its repairer was that the damage  to the left side 
would require one repair altogether, which would  be larger  than 300mm  in length. Mrs L says 
that the front passenger door wasnt damaged and she wasnt  claiming for the repair of what 
she described as tiny scratches elsewhere.  Its not clear to me why the minor scratch/scuff at 
the bottom  of the rear, passenger door  which is what  Mrs L claimed  for - couldnt  be 
repaired in isolation.  Theres no report from Red Sands repairer explaining  why the repair 
had to include damage Mrs L hadnt asked  to be repaired. 
Ive looked closely  at the photos and screen shot that have  been  provided. Nothing Ive seen  
shows measurements, so its not clear that the repair  Mrs L claimed for was more than 
300mm. So, it appears to me that its covered under the policy.  
In the complaint form, Mrs L asked for the return of her premium.  I dont think that would be 
a fair outcome,  as shes had the benefit  of the policy since 2015 and had one repair 
completed. I think that a fair outcome  here is for Red Sands to deal with Mrs Ls claim under 
the terms of the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I now require Red Sands Insurance  
Company (Europe) Limited  to deal with Mrs Ls claim under the terms of her policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3248390