K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Abacus IFA Limited gave  him inappropriate advice when he took 
pension benefits  in the form of a cash lump sum and annuity  in 2007.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Mr T and 
Abacus have provided us with some comments. Although I am only summarising here what  
both parties have said, I have considered their entire responses  carefully  before  writing this 
decision.
Abacus has said that it agrees with my provisional  decision. It acknowledges that are areas  
where more clarity could  have been  documented. But it believes that it acted  professionally 
and in good faith providing the most  appropriate retirement package for Mr T based on his 
specific requirements back  in 2007.
Mr T doesnt agree with my provisional findings.  He says that at the time he didnt 
understand pensions and annuity options and relied  on the financial services industry for 
advice at what was a vulnerable time in his life. Mr T says that he thinks Abacus should have 
recommended that he continue  to contribute into his pensions to provide some financial 
security in retirement. He says there  is no record anywhere of Abacus  advising against 
taking his benefits or highlighting  the risks of taking an annuity so early.
Mr T has pointed out that the only reason he had any contact with Abacus was because of 
the introduction  from his former employer. He has sent us an application form showing that 
Abacus helped him withdraw some  benefits from another pension  scheme in August 2006. 
He says that no suitability report was produced for that withdrawal. And he says that he 
similarly had no need of those benefits when he took them in 2006.
Mr T concludes by saying that if the risks and alternative  options  been explained then he 
wouldnt have cashed in either  of the pension funds  early.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I still dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Firstly I should be clear  that in this complaint  I am only dealing with what  happened  when  
Mr T took his pension benefits in 2007. I am not considering that happened the previous 
year, either when  Mr T left his occupational pension scheme or when he cashed in his other 
pension. But I have  obviously taken note of those events in respect of the wider relationship 
that Mr T had with Abacus.
Ref: DRN32460942In my provisional decision I accepted that Mr T had no need of the pension benefits  that he 
took in 2007. But I still think that was a choice he made, and not something that Abacus 
advised him to do. I think that the advice Abacus gave to Mr T was limited to ensuring that 
he received the best annuity,  in terms of value and fit for his circumstances, that was 
available in the market rather than him simply taking the annuity on offer from his pension 
provider.
So I dont  think that Abacus  needed  to seek to influence the decision Mr T had made to take 
his pension benefits. But I still think that, even  if Abacus had pointed out to Mr T that he 
might get higher benefits if he delayed taking  his benefits for a number of years,  he wouldnt 
have made  a different decision.  I think hed have still proceeded with his plans.
I entirely understand that, with the benefit of hindsight  and the changes  he has experienced 
in his family circumstances, Mr T might  not make  the same  decision now as he made in 
2007. But I think the advice that Abacus gave to Mr T at the time,  in line with the relatively  
narrow bounds of his request,  was reasonable. So I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Abacus IFA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32460943EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that Abacus  IFA Limited  gave him inappropriate advice when he took pension 
benefits in the form of a cash lump sum and annuity in 2007.
background
Mr T took some  pension benefits in the form of a tax free cash lump  sum and ongoing  annuity in 
2007. Before taking those  benefits he received some advice from Abacus, although the scope and 
background to that advice  is disputed and something  I will explore further in this provisional decision.
Mr T was aged 54 when  he took the pension  benefits. He says that, at that time,  he had no need of 
the cash  lump sum,  and simply  left it sitting in a bank account. And he was working full time with his 
income easily exceeding  his expenditure. So he had no need of the additional  income the annuity 
provided. But Mr T says he only became aware that the advice he received from Abacus was 
inappropriate when he recently met with a new financial advisor who reviewed  his financial situation.
When Mr T first brought his complaint to this Service, Abacus said that the complaint had been made 
too late and so wasnt  within our jurisdiction. That matter was considered by another  ombudsman who 
decided that this was a complaint that we could consider.  So the matter was passed to one of our 
adjudicators to consider  the merits of Mr Ts complaint.
Abacus said that it didnt  provide Mr T with any advice  about whether or not to take his pension 
benefits at that time. Instead it says that Mr T had already  decided to take those  benefits as he had 
become disillusioned with pensions in general  following  the decision of his employer to close its final 
salary occupational  scheme. Abacus says that it simply  helped Mr T to ensure  that he received the 
maximum amount  of cash lump sum and ongoing  annuity payment  by finding  the best quotation in the 
market for his benefits.
Mr Ts complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Abacus hadnt done 
enough to explain  to Mr T the disadvantages of taking his pension early. And he thought  that if 
Abacus had advised Mr T to delay taking his benefits he would have followed  that advice. So he 
thought the complaint should  be upheld and asked Abacus  to pay Mr T some  compensation. Abacus 
didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset,  I want to say that Ive got no doubts that Mr T has given us his complete and honest  
recollections of what happened when he took his pension  benefits. But Im mindful  that the events he 
has told us about took place more than ten years ago, and over such a long period of time, even the 
most careful  memories can and do fade.  Where  there  are differences between what  Mr T and Abacus  
think happened, I have  needed to use the balance  of probability in reaching my decision  or, in other 
words, what  I think is more  likely to have happened.
I think  that it would be reasonable to conclude  that Mr Ts pension fund, and so the cash lump sum 
and on-going  annuity he could receive  would  have  been  higher  if he had delayed taking his benefits. 
But balanced  against that would need to be the annuity payments that Mr T has been receiving since 
2007. So I think the matter that I need to decide here is whether Abacus  gave Mr T advice about 
taking his benefits in 2007, or if not whether it needed to do more to explain the disadvantages of 
what Mr T was proposing.
Ref: DRN32460944From what I have seen I think it is not in dispute that Abacus had been previously  engaged by Mr Ts 
employer to provide some  general advice  to its employees when it decided to close its final salary 
pension scheme. So I think that is how Mr T first became aware of the services  that Abacus might be 
able to provide. It doesnt seem to me that Mr T was particularly experienced in financial  matters at 
that time and so I think he might have been grateful  for the introduction his employer  gave him to a 
financial advisor.
But I think those initial conversations between Mr T and Abacus  had been finished  for some time 
before the discussions that led to Mr T taking his pension benefits in 2007.  So Im not persuaded by 
what Mr T recalls when he says that he was advised by Abacus to take his pension benefits in the 
original meeting about his employers pension. Abacuss records indicate that Mr T had actually left 
the employer that first introduced him to Abacus in June 2006.
The pension  benefits that are the subject  of this complaint are not those  that Mr T had derived from 
his former employer.  Abacus says that he had already encashed those  benefits earlier in 2006.  So 
Abacus tells us that it had no knowledge  of these additional benefits  until it was approached by Mr T. 
If that were the case  then I think it would  add weight  to the version of events that Abacus has 
described. And Ive not seen  anything to make me think this isnt what happened at the time.
I think  it is reasonably  clear  that Mr T had no need to take his pension benefits  at the time.  The 
information that Abacus recorded suggests that Mr Ts income significantly outweighed his 
expenditure. And I havent seen anything that makes  me think Mr T needed to use the cash lump  sum 
he received at the time. I appreciate that Mr T has explained that over the years he has made  use of 
this capital  sum  but I dont  think that suggests he had those plans when he chose to take his 
pension benefits. So I would agree that, if Abacus  gave  Mr T advice that he should  take his benefits  at 
that time, it is likely  I would conclude that advice to have been inappropriate.
I have looked carefully at the documentation that Abacus produced, and Mr T signed, at the time of 
their meetings in late 2006. From that documentation  I can see that Abacus didnt charge  Mr T any 
fees for providing him with advice. But it did receive  a small commission payment from the annuity 
provider. I think that, if Abacus had been specifically engaged to provide Mr T with advice about  
whether, rather than how, to take his benefits it might  have made  a charge for that advice.
The advice report that was provided to Mr T makes it clear that it is restricted solely to the matter of 
helping him to withdraw his retirement benefits. And it later goes on to say that Mr Ts objective  was to 
cash in his pension benefits. I think it would have been helpful if the report had explicitly noted that 
no advice was being  given to Mr T about whether  he should take the benefits. But I dont think  the 
absence of that statement should lead me to fairly conclude that advice was given to Mr T on that 
matter.
So I think it most likely that Mr T had already decided to take his pension benefits  before he 
approached Abacus   Abacus says that was because he had become disillusioned with pensions  
savings and wanted to liquidate  his pension  investments. And so I think  it was reasonable  that 
Abacus only provided Mr T with advice to ensure he maximised those benefits  within the parameters 
that he outlined. And of course, in 2007,  the options open to Mr T for his benefits were much less than 
those that are available today.
But even if I was to decide that Abacus should  have  gone  further with its advice, and provided  Mr T 
with some specific information about the disadvantages of taking his benefits, I am not currently 
persuaded that would make any difference to the outcome of this complaint. On balance I think  that 
Mr T was set on taking his pension benefits for the reasons Ive described above.  I think  that, even if 
hed known he might get a higher income in the future, hed have still proceeded  with his plans.
Ref: DRN32460945I have looked at the advice  that Abacus provided to Mr T. The annuity it recommended was, from the 
analysis it performed,  the best available to him when  considering the stability of the annuity provider  
and the amount of income he would  receive. And the structure  of the annuity appears to have been in 
line with Mr Ts circumstances at the time.
I appreciate that my provisional  findings will be disappointing for Mr T. I entirely  understand that, with 
the benefit  of hindsight and the changes he has experienced in his family circumstances, he might not 
make the same decision now as he made in 2007. But I think the advice that Abacus gave to him at 
the time, in line with the relatively  narrow  bounds of his request, was reasonable.  So I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN3246094