K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc did not change her correspondence address 
following her written  instruction to do so. She further  complains,  that she hasnt received her 
new chequebook, nor any bank account statements for some  time.
background 
In early December 2016, Mrs S called Santander  regarding a failed transaction on her card. 
During this call, she also informed Santander that her address needed to be changed as she 
had sold her UK home and was temporarily  staying at her holiday home abroad.  She was 
advised that a change  of address  request  would  need to be put in writing.  Santander told her 
that they would stop correspondence  and statements  being  sent to the UK address, pending 
her letter.  
Mrs S then,  on 5 December, gave written  instruction  to Santander to change  her address to 
that of her holiday home. In this letter she explained that the UK address had been  sold.  She 
stated that for safety and security  reasons  no post should be sent to that address. On 
13 December, Santander wrote to Mrs S and stated additional steps were needed for the 
address to be updated. 
In January 2017, Mrs S complained to Santander  about  this, as she had completed the steps  
as per the call, in early December. She also pointed out that she hadnt received her new 
chequebook and that her debit card kept getting  blocked. The following month, Santander 
responded and did not uphold the complaint. They reiterated the additional steps  that would 
be needed in order to change the address.
Between February 2017 and February 2018,  a number  of letters  were  exchanged between 
Mrs S and Santander. During this time, Mrs S made them aware  of her ill health and the 
need to access  her bank  account to cover her medical needs  and food costs.  She became  
increasingly frustrated  at Santanders  stance  as they provided conflicting  information during 
this time, with regards  to how to get her address changed. 
During this time there were also a couple  of letters Santander hadnt responded to. With 
regards to not responding to one of these letters, an apology was made and £75 was 
credited to Mrs Ss account as a gesture  of goodwill. Santander then stated they only 
needed a copy  of Mrs Ss photographic identification and proof  of her holiday home address. 
In February 2018,  Mrs S sent a copy of her passport and of a utility bill. 
In March, Santander wrote to Mrs S at the old UK address and then to her overseas 
address. They requested  a copy of her photographic identification; and this time proof of 
ownership of her Santander  accounts. Unhappy with this and frustrated further, it was at this 
point that Mrs S contacted us.
Our investigator felt Mrs S hadnt been treated fairly  and had been caused  distress and 
inconvenience, largely due to Santanders explanations of what was needed to change the 
address. They recommended the bank pay Mrs S £150 compensation, later increased to 
£300 when it was found that Santander  had lost the copy of Mrs Ss passport and needed it 
again. Santander agreed to pay £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs S was reluctant to accept this offer while she was still without her account statements; a 
new debit card and a new chequebook. So, the matters been passed to me for review.
Ref: DRN33567382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has said it could have provided a better  service to Mrs S and has agreed to pay 
Mrs S £300.  Ive thought about  whether Santander needs to do any more to put things right. 
Santander has informed  us that they have made arrangements for a new debit card and 
current account statements to be sent to Mrs S. With regards  to the issuing  of a new 
chequebook, Santander says its currently unable to do this due to a block  on the current  
account arising from a default on Mrs Ss credit  card account. The issues  surrounding Mrs 
Ss credit card account are being  dealt with separately and therefore do not form part of this 
decision. Consequently, I dont propose  to set out here any action to be taken in relation to 
Mrs Ss request for a new chequebook.
I can see that Mrs S getting her address changed on Santanders system became  more 
difficult than either party  was expecting. I am of the view that Santanders requests, if 
considered in isolation, were not unreasonable. And I think  Mrs S could have provided the 
bank with her photo ID and address  evidence  sooner, even if she didnt herself  think it 
necessary. However,  it is clear that overall,  Santander didnt handle  things quite  as well as it 
should have done. This situation impacted on Mrs S and added  to her distress  as she was 
not able to access her funds without her debit card. And she couldnt review her statements, 
as Santander  wouldnt send them to her until her address was changed  on the system.   
I consider that Santander further  inconvenienced Mrs S by misplacing the copy of her 
identification. Given Mrs Ss health,  I am pleased to know all information needed to change  
her address  is now on file, and Mrs S need not do anything further. That said, I must be fair 
in my consideration and I think both parties could have taken steps to resolve this sooner. I 
therefore think £300 is a reasonable offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must pay Mrs S £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356738