K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about four high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to Miss H 
between August 2017 and November 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Hs complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been 
provided with loan four. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss H, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss H was unlikely  to have been  able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided loan four. 
I say this because  by this stage, Miss H already had three  outstanding loans with Sunny. 
And given  the total amount owing at this stage,  I cant see how Sunny could reasonably 
have believed that Miss H would be able to repay a fourth loan.
Ref: DRN39713322Miss H is being expected  to pay interest  and charges on a loan that Sunny shouldnt have 
provided her with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges added to loan four from the outset, Miss H should be 
left in the position where the total amount she pays, or shes  expected to pay, is no 
more than the amount she was lent in the first place.
Id also remind Sunny of its obligation  to treat Miss H positively and sympathetically should  it 
be the case that Miss H is experiencing financial difficulty and it wish to pursue any 
balances outstanding.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Hs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Miss H compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3971332