K822xComplaint
Mrs P complains that a whole-of-life policy she has with Phoenix Life Limited was mis-sold to
her.
In making her complaint, Mrs P is represented by a claims management company and it said
she was only interested  in having  critical illness cover; no alternatives were  discussed with
her; the policy reviews  werent explained  to her; and no assessment was made about
whether she could afford it in the long term.
Background 
Mrs P started a whole-of-life policy in 1993 with a predecessor business  of Phoenix Life.
In 2018, through her representatives, she complained about  the recommendation shed
received to start this particular policy.
Phoenix Life said that it didnt have sufficient  evidence to support the sale of the whole-of-life
policy to Mrs P. It offered  her a refund of the premiums shed paid towards  it with interest,
less the cost of providing the critical illness cover. It said that if Mrs P accepted this offer the
policy would be cancelled and would  have no surrender value.
Mrs P wanted to continue  with the policy, rather than it be cancelled.  But Phoenix  Life said
that it wasnt willing to offer that option  as part of the complaint shed made  had related to
affording the premiums over the long term as it continued into her retirement age, and it said
this would be an issue if she were  to carry on with it. It said it didnt offer standalone critical 
illness cover  in 1993, so cancelling  the policy from commencement and offering her 
compensation would put her back into the position she wouldve  been in if she hadnt taken
the policy out.
Our investigator's opinion
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She
said that she thought it would be unfair to recommend that Mrs P be allowed to continue  with
her policy as well as getting the redress  for it being  mis-sold.
Mrs Ps representatives didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked for the complaint
to be reviewed. It said that it had seen past complaints on the same issue  where the policy
had been allowed to continue. It said it was up to Mrs P whether she could afford to continue
with the plan into her retirement or to seek advice on other options. It said Phoenix  Life was
deducting the actual cost of the cover  and it was unfair not to allow Mrs P to carry on with
the plan if she wanted. Mrs P now has some health issues  that could impact on her ability to
get replacement  cover elsewhere.  It asked that Phoenix Life pay the redress  amount,
excluding the surrender  value of the policy  and allow Mrs P to carry on with it.
My first provisional  findings
Phoenix Life had upheld Mrs Ps complaint about the suitability of the whole-of-life cover for
her circumstances, so I considered the redress offered and the stipulation  that accepting  this
meant that her policy should be cancelled.
Part of Mrs Ps complaint was that she was only interested in having a form of critical illness
cover. And Phoenix Lifes offer of compensation took that into account - deducting the part
of the premiums she paid that were for the cost of critical illness  cover from her refund.
Ref: DRN30662202But it didnt take into account that Mrs P may not be able to get suitable replacement  critical
illness cover  now, or that it may be significantly more expensive  that it wouldve been had
she got such cover in 1993  - when she wanted it.
I said that I appreciated that the predecessor business didnt offer standalone critical illness
cover in 1993. So it made the recommendation of the whole-of-life policy to Mrs P and this
included the critical  illness cover that was Mrs Ps prime concern'. However, I said that, had
it made Mrs P aware that it didnt have  a suitable  policy for her needs,  rather than
recommending the best fit from its range of products, I was satisfied that she wouldve
obtained a standalone critical  illness policy elsewhere. So I wasnt  persuaded that, in Mrs Ps
particular circumstances,  Phoenix Lifes offer of compensation  would put her back into the
position she wouldve  been in had it not been  for the advice, as it would  leave her without the
critical illness cover.
I said that I was mindful that this is Mrs Ps policy and its for her to decide  what  she wants to
do with it after making this complaint. This was because  continuing  the cost of the policy  into
her retirement years was part of her original complaint. But it is for Mrs P to decide whether
this carries on being affordable after making her complaint about this point.
So I said I thought  it would be reasonable to allow Mrs P to continue  with her policy if she
wished, and for Phoenix Life to recalculate  the redress to date, deducting the current
surrender value of her policy  from the result.
Alternatively, and although I acknowledged that this wasnt a product offered by the
predecessor business  at that time, I said Phoenix  Life could look to provide Mrs P with a
replacement standalone critical illness policy, on the basis  of her circumstances as they
were in 1993. 
Mrs Ps representatives responded to say the first option I set out would be best suited to
resolving the matter, as it would allow  Mrs P to take the redress  sum and then continue with
her policy.
Phoenix Life responded to say that it would not be possible for the policy to continue  if it
offered a refund of premiums, less the cost of critical illness cover.  It said this was because  it
would be refunding a proportion of the premium  that had funded  the investment element of
the plan. By refunding this, it would  mean  that the policy  would never have built up any
positive unit holdings throughout the term and so the current surrender value would
immediately reduce to zero. As the refund of premiums  would not leave the policy  with a
sufficient unit holding  to continue, it would  lapse without value.
It said that it was unable to offer Mrs P a standalone critical illness plan.
However, it did make two alternative suggestions:
- that Mrs P could accept its offer and then arrange  a standalone critical illness plan
elsewhere. It would  then be able to perform  further calculations to establish if she
had been financially disadvantaged due to the difference  in premiums and pay her a
lump sum to take into account any difference going  forwards; or
- that Mrs P could reject its offer and continue with the policy  benefits, it said it would
be open to offer a payment in recognition of the trouble and upset Mrs P had been
caused, if she chose  this option.
Ref: DRN30662203Our investigator put these alternative suggestions along with Phoenix Lifes  explanation  to
Mrs Ps representatives. But her representatives said that Phoenix  Life had previously made
offers in the past and complied with decisions which were in line with my provisional findings
in Mrs Ps complaint. It said it was clear that the refund could be paid while the policy  is
allowed to continue but Phoenix Life was now choosing  not to do this. The representatives
didnt consider this was treating customers fairly. The representatives said that the deduction
was for the cost of the critical  illness  cover,  not the rest of the premiums, which  went  towards
the investment  and charges, so it didnt understand how Phoenix Life could reach the
conclusion that the policy would not have a surrender  value, and said it had seen  offers
made on policies  that had already  been surrendered, so the consumer had already received
a surrender value.
On my behalf, the investigator asked Phoenix  Life to provide more  detail and clarification
about why it didnt consider Mrs Ps policy could continue as I had set out in my provisional
findings.
Phoenix Life responded and provided a breakdown  of the costs of the critical illness cover.
Mrs Ps policy is reviewable, so the level of cover had reduced since it started,  and so the
costs of the critical illness cover were  based on the amount of cover for the relevant period.
These were:
- £21.37 per month provided  £100,000  critical illness cover  over 10 years
- £15.00 per month provided  £85,036  critical illness cover over 5 years
- £11.88 per month provided  £64,817  critical illness cover over 5 years
- £10.26 per month provided  £54,040  critical illness cover over 5 years
It said that, since it had made  the original offer to Mrs P, it had changed  the way that it
calculated the cost of critical illness cover, based on the actual cost of it within the policy,
rather than the cost of a standalone plan.
Phoenix Life reiterated that because it would be refunding all the investment element of the
plan, the policy would  never  have  built up any positive unit holdings and so wouldnt have
acquired any surrender  value.
For Mrs Ps policy, it said shed paid total premiums  of £23,503.98  to August 2020 and the
total cost of the critical illness  cover to date was £5,369.20. So it would be refunding
£18,134.78 - around 77% of the premiums  paid. So the residual units following the refund
would never  have built up any positive value on the plan.
Phoenix Life said that a predecessor  business had previously allowed some policies to
continue after the consumer had accepted an offer of compensation,  less the surrender
value. However, there had been  no consideration of the affect the refund  of premiums would
have had on the accumulated fund value. This is something Phoenix Life has reconsidered,
and the option is no longer available.
My second  provisional  decision
I issued a further provisional decision  after considering  these responses. 
Ref: DRN30662204I said that I fully appreciated Mrs Ps circumstances and why she wishes to retain the 
benefits the policy currently gives her, considering the changes  in her health and age since 
this policy  was started,  and the options now available for her to plan for alternative cover. 
I said that this had been fully taken into account when I reached my first provisional  
conclusions that she should have the option to retain the policy  if she wishes.
However, I said that it had become clear  Phoenix  Lifes submissions and explanations that 
this isnt an option for her, as the policy would lapse  and therefore not give Mrs P the 
continuation of the cover she wants. And I felt it wouldnt help Mrs P for me to make  a finding 
that wouldnt be possible to achieve or enforce.
So while I appreciated Mrs Ps representatives  opinion and past experience,  I no longer
considered that retaining the policy while accepting the refund of premiums could be an 
option for Mrs P. And Phoenix Life had also said that the second option  I set out in my first 
provisional findings of it providing her with a separate  stand-alone critical illness  plan would
not be possible either.
Phoenix Life set out two alternative options  to resolve Mrs Ps complaint. And, taking
everything into account, I said these would now seem to be a reasonable way forward  for 
her, as they would allow Mrs P to make  the decision about  what she would like to do with her 
policy, and the cover it currently gives her, whilst also recognising  that it didnt meet her 
needs at the time it was sold.
So, I said that Mrs P could either:
- accept Phoenix Lifes offer in the knowledge that her current plan will end. The redress  
should be recalculated to date. Mrs P could then arrange a standalone critical illness plan 
elsewhere and provide  Phoenix Life with the costs so it could carry out a comparison 
calculation. Phoenix  Life should then look to pay Mrs P a lump sum to take into account any 
difference going forwards; or
- reject Phoenix  Lifes  offer and continue  with her policy benefits. Phoenix Life
could then look to offer a payment in recognition of the trouble and upset Mrs P was
caused.
In terms of these offers,  I said I wasnt aware of whether Mrs P has actually looked  into what  
the cost of a standalone critical illness plan would currently be for her. I considered it would 
assist in finalising  this complaint if Mrs P were able to provide this information in response to 
the provisional decision. This would allow the parties  to better  understand what redress  
Phoenix Life was offering  in respect  of the potential increased cost of Mrs P obtaining  
replacement critical illness cover elsewhere.
And in respect  of the trouble and upset  sum that Phoenix Life proposed to offer Mrs P if she 
decided to retain her policy benefits,  in response to my provisional  decision I asked Phoenix 
Life to confirm what this amount  would be. I could  then consider whether in my view this 
represented a fair way to resolve this complaint, if the second of the options  above was
chosen by Mrs P.
The responses
Ref: DRN30662205Phoenix Life responded to say that it would accept my second provisional decision and 
would be willing to offer Mrs P £350 in compensation  should  she decide she to keep her 
policy.
Mrs Ps representatives responded to say that critical illness cover on a whole-of-life basis 
wasnt possible and the maximum term for it would  be 34 years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Mrs Ps representatives  response, I understand that she is not going to be able to get 
the level of critical illness  cover that she wishes to protect her for life. It has asked how 
Phoenix Life proposes to overcome this issue. But it hasnt  confirmed  whether  Mrs P is able 
to obtain any form of replacement cover, even if this is for a defined  term and not whole-of-
life as she wishes.
Although I appreciate Mrs Ps reasons for wanting  this cover at this time in her life, I cant 
know for certain whether she would have been able to obtain  whole-of-life critical illness  
cover in 1993. It has been determined that Phoenix Life was unable to show enough 
evidence to support  the sale of a whole-of-life policy to her at the time. 
It remains that I consider  that the two options  proposed represent a reasonable way forward 
for Mrs P to be able to decide  what she wants to do with her policy, given the limitations  
presented. 
Phoenix Life isnt able to offer Mrs P a standalone critical illness plan to provide her with the 
duration of critical illness cover that she would like. So it wouldnt  be possible for it to give 
her replacement cover, or to provide a bridge of cover for a period after an alternative policy 
may end.
So it is for Mrs P to decide which of the two proposed options she would  like to take:
-accept Phoenix Lifes  offer with the redress recalculated  which would mean the end 
of her current plan. She could  then arrange an alternative plan elsewhere,  albeit with 
a defined term rather than whole-of-life. Phoenix  Life would then carry out a 
comparison calculation of the costs and should then look to pay Mrs P a lump sum to 
take into account any difference going  forwards;  or
-reject  Phoenix Lifes offer and continue with her policy benefits. Phoenix  Life would 
then pay her £350 in recognition of the trouble and upset Mrs P was caused.
Overall, my findings remain that I think these options  represent  a reasonable resolution to 
this complaint as they give Mrs P the ability to reach her own decision about how she would 
like to continue.  
Ref: DRN30662206my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and require Phoenix Life Limited to pay redress as I 
have set out above, subject to Mrs Ps confirmation  that she wishes  to take up either of 
these two options.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3066220