K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that ReAssure Limited  wrongly recommended  an unsuitable whole of 
life insurance policy  in 1998.
background
Mr and Mrs Ss representative said:
They were told it was necessary to take out the policy as a condition of receiving an 
overdraft on Mr Ss business account;  the manager  did not explain why the policy 
had to be in joint names
The advisor did not explain that the premiums were payable for the whole of their 
lives nor that they would increase
He did not explain that this was a share-based  account and that the monies would be 
invested in a "Barclays Life managed series 3" fund
The policy was sold on the understanding that it would cover  Mr Ss overdraft and/or 
would return a lump  sum on retirement
Mr S was not offered any cheaper  alternative
He did not enquire  as to what other  policies  Mr S might have had to cover the 
overdraft facility  in the event  of his death
ReAssure rejected the complaint. It said the policy was clearly identified  as life cover, was 
not linked  to any overdraft and appeared to meet Mr and Mrs Ss declared  needs.
In their complaint  to this service Mr and Mrs S, via their representative, said that a term 
assurance policy, running till their eldest  child was 18, would have been more suitable  and 
far more cost-effective.
They also said that a policy  providing  a potential  pay-out of £23,000  would have gone  
nowhere near providing sufficient cover in the event of Mr Ss death given his salary for one 
year only amounted to £25,000. This rendered  the recommendation completely unsuitable.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld. He noted  that the  
fact find recorded  that Mr and Mrs S were looking for a capital sum to provide an income for 
dependents if you dieA cash  sum if you became critically ill and Income in retirement. 
He therefore felt it was reasonable  to recommend  some form of life insurance.
He agreed that the level of cover taken  didnt fully address these  needs  but felt this didnt 
make the recommendation unsuitable, saying  the sum assured may have reflected what  
Mr and Mr S said they could afford. He also didnt  feel there  was sufficient evidence to safely  
say whether they were looking for limited term cover (till their children  were  independent)  or 
long-term cover given the limited available information.
He noted that the fact find recorded that Mrs S wanted cover that would pay out if they 
became seriously  ill, and this was not something  exclusively linked to their childrens 
dependency.
He felt the policy had been recommended  to satisfy a protection rather  a 
retirement/investment need, and noted that the advisor recorded  that their retirement  needs  
would be revisited  in the future.
Ref: DRN33182492In his experience  he felt the product literature from that time wouldve explained the benefits  
and structure  of the policy in clear and understandable terms. He noted that the policy  was 
first reviewed in 2008 when Mr and Mrs S agreed  to a reduction  in the amount of cover, and 
that this also happened  in 2013.  He therefore felt they should  have  realised by 2008 that the 
policy was unlikely to deliver a significant  investment return in retirement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and mainly for the same  reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether they might  have done 
things differently (such as made a different  recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice. 
This recommendation took place more  than 20 years ago so I dont think  its realistic to 
expect either  party  to have a completely accurate, comprehensive recollection of what was 
discussed at the time. In this context  I dont feel able to safely say whether the policy and its 
features were fully explained and/or whether Mr and Mrs S were fully aware  of these. 
But, in general  terms, I can see no reason why Mr and Mrs S would have thought the 
recommendation was connected to a business overdraft as there is no mention of this in the 
paperwork. I think it is more likely  than not that they were looking for some form of life 
insurance, something clearly suitable given Mr S was self-employed and they had young 
children.
As the adjudicator said, while the level of cover would not have been sufficient to meet  their 
familys likely income  shortfall if Mr S died this does not make  the advice unsuitable. Most 
people take out life insurance to ensure there is some financial support in the event of death  
or critical  illness,  partly to help a surviving  partner  cope with and manage  the inevitable  
changes etc. But few choose or could afford to take out sufficient  cover  to provide a partners  
potential annual income shortfall over the long-term. This would require, in most  cases,  a 
massive sum assured at a very considerable cost. So a recommendation to take out some 
limited life cover is not a bad idea.
The crucial  issue, therefore,  is whether Mr and Mrs S should have been recommended  
limited term cover. Here, I just dont believe there is sufficient evidence  to conclude that they 
definitely only wanted this, or wouldve only wanted  this if the advisor  had pointed  out this 
option. It is often far from clear when children are likely to become independent, 18, 21 or 
even longer even  if one concluded that a couple only wanted  cover for their dependent  
children. Given Mr and Mrs Ss employment situations, its not unreasonable to conceive that 
they might  have wanted to buy some life cover  for their mutual  benefit,  particularly  given the 
stated desire for critical illness cover. 
Ref: DRN33182493my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3318249