K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.
background
Lloyds doesnt  know exactly when the PPI was sold so they have assumed it was taken  at 
the same  time as the credit card was taken out, which was in 1998.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened, at the least, over 18 years  ago, so 
Im not surprised that neither Lloyds  nor Mrs T has been able to provide any of the specific 
sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I 
think most likely  happened.  
Mrs T said she hadnt agreed to the cover. Ive seen a credit  card statement from 24 January  
2000 which shows that Mrs T was paying for PAYMENTS INSURANCE  PREMIUM on a 
balance carried forward from the previous  statement. So as there was an existing credit 
balance on the card, it seems the card was sold prior to 2000. And its more likely  that the 
PPI was also sold prior to 2000. 
I think that Mrs T would  have been  provided with these statements and I think  that its more  
likely that she would  have  been  aware she was paying for this policy. So if Mrs T hadnt  
agreed to the PPI then I think her statements would have put her on notice she was paying 
for something she hadnt agreed to and she would have, most likely, raised this as an issue 
with Lloyds many years  before she eventually chose to do.     
Ref: DRN37845532Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mrs T aware  the PPI was 
optional or failed to secure her agreement to take it out. And in any event, considering  how 
long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold  the 
complaint on these points.  So having considered  all the submissions I have  received  in this 
case, I think its more likely  that Lloyds wouldve made Mrs T aware  that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it, even though she may not remember that now, many  
years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs T, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mrs T was eligible for the policy and wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the cover. I 
say this as Mrs T told us that she couldnt recall how much sick pay she would have received 
and that she had no other means she could rely on in that circumstance, or if she lost her 
job. This PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mrs Ts monthly balance for up to 12 months. 
So, as this would pay out in addition  to any sick pay she may have been entitled  to, I think  
the policy would have been  useful  to Mrs T if something went wrong.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been, including the cost of the policy. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was 
suitable, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. And I make no award 
against Lloyds  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3784553