K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined  to pay for all the repairs to 
his car under  his motor insurance  policy as it said there two incidents. He wants  it to treat the 
damage as one claim.
background
Mr Ws car was hit by a deer and damaged. Mr W said the car was in a dangerous spot on a 
busy road so he reversed it to safety on the rough verge. This caused  damage to the rear of 
the car. Mr W made  a claim for the damage, but UKI said there were two separate incidents 
and treated this as two claims.  In that case, Mr W would have to pay his £250  excess  twice.  
But Mr W didnt  think this was fair.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr W said that the 
police said hed done the right thing by moving  the car. The investigator thought Mr W had 
been right to do this and he thought  the further  damage was a continuation of the same 
incident. So he thought it was unfair for UKI to treat the matter as two claims. And he thought  
it should deal with all the repairs as one claim.  
UKI replied that the damage  to the cars rear wasnt caused by the deer. It said there were  
two incidents with different causes, the deer and then Mr W moving the car and hitting the 
verge. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think that usually  I would agree with UKI that the damage from the deer and the damage  
caused by reversing were two separate incidents and so should be treated as two separate 
claims. And so I would usually say that UKI is justified in requiring two policy excesses  to be 
paid as per the policy terms and conditions. But in this case, I dont think  this would be fair 
and reasonable.  Ill explain why I think this.
Mr W said he moved the car because it was in a dangerous position  in failing light with rush 
hour traffic building  up. He said he wanted  to prevent further damage and protect the safety 
of his two passengers and himself. He said he did this quickly  and was distracted by having  
to drive a badly damaged car in these conditions. 
Wed expect a consumer to reasonably mitigate his losses, and ensure his safety, following 
an incident such as this. So I agree with Mr W that he was correct to move his car as this 
mitigated further  loss and ensured  the safety of himself, his passengers  and other road 
users.
Ref: DRN36017972So I think Mr W had to move the car after the deer collision. I can understand that Mr W 
might be shaken at the time and would  have trouble moving his damaged car. He did this 
after two minutes having  got out of his car to look at the damage. Therefore I agree with the 
investigator that it would  be reasonable to consider  moving the car as a continuation of the 
collision. 
UKI said Mr W hadnt included the rear damage in his notification call. But I dont think this is 
a reason not to consider  it. Mr W said he didnt notice the damage  to his rear bumper 
because of dirt. It was noticed when UKI took the car for repair.  I havent seen any evidence 
that the damage to the rear was pre-existing. I can see from its file that UKI thought it wasnt 
old.  
So I think, on balance,  that it would be fair and reasonable  in these circumstances for UKI to 
treat the front and rear damage  as one claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to repair  the 
rear damage to Mr Ws cars rear as part of his claim following hitting the deer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3601797