K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mr J 
says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Egg at the time, mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Mr J says the PPI was added without his knowledge and that he wouldnt have knowingly 
agreed to the PPI. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think  Barclays made it clear that 
Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this. I say this having  seen  evidence  that Mr Js credit card 
application was made online without any involvement from a Barclays sales person during 
completion of the application. And it has sent me copies of some  screen shots  of the 
application process which it says Mr J wouldve seen at the time. These include equally 
prominent yes and no options for PPI. Barclays has told us that Mr J wouldnt have been 
able to continue  onto the next screens  without making a decision on whether or not to take 
out the cover. Ive also seen a copy of the applications report which recorded the answers  
Mr J gave online and this shows  a Y in the box for PPI  but its likely this box wouldve had 
an N in it if Mr J had ticked no to the PPI - so I think this reflected what he wanted at the 
time.
As this was an internet sale and theres  no evidence Mr J spoke to anyone  from Barclays 
while completing his application, I think this was a non-advised sale. This means Barclays  
didnt have to check if it was right for him but it did have to make  sure Mr J got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
  
Mr J says he wasnt given any information  about the policy.  And I agree, the information 
Barclays gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take 
out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  Based  on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And as I havent  seen  any evidence that Mr J had sufficient other 
means to make his repayments had he suddenly been unable  to work I think it would  have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But Barclays  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Barclays didnt  tell Mr J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN32746602my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3274660