K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about an offer made  by HFC Bank Limited (HFC) following a 
complaint about  payment protection insurance (PPI) sold alongside a credit  card.
background
Mr B took out a credit card with HFC, trading as Marbles.  The card was later transferred to 
another business, Business B.
Mr B, through his representative,  complained that hed been mis-sold PPI and complained to 
Business B. As HFC sold the PPI policy, it looked  into the sale and agreed  PPI had been 
mis-sold. HFC worked out what compensation was due for the time it provided the credit  and 
told Business B, so it could work out the compensation due for the rest of the time Mr B had 
the card and PPI.
In December 2018 Business B wrote  to Mr Bs representative to set out the compensation 
being offered.  There were  two letters sent, both dated the same day and sent together. The 
first one was for a credit  card ending  8896 and made an offer of £537.56. It said:
Your PPI policy and Marbles credit card were  sold by HFC Bank LimitedIn 
October 2007, [Business B] became  your credit provider. However, your Marbles  
credit card account was only transferred to [Business B]s systems  in February 2009. 
For that reason,  [HFC] reviewed the sale of the PPI policy and calculated any redress 
due before February 2009
Well write to you separately  about  the redress due for the period continuing after  
February 2009. This separate  letter will confirm the full redress amount youll receive  
for the period before and after the transfer.
The second  letter was for card ending 5104 and offered £837.76 in compensation. This letter 
said:
Your PPI policy and Marbles credit card were  sold by HFC Bank LimitedIn 
October 2007, [Business B] became  your credit provider. However, your Marbles  
credit card account was only transferred to [Business B]s systems  in February 2009 
and your PPI policy continued uninterrupted from this date. For that reason, [HFC] 
reviewed the sale of the PPI policy and calculated any redress  due before  February  
2009. Weve written to you separately to explain the detail of its calculation
[Business B] has calculated any redress due after February 2009.
Were responsible to you for the payment of redress for the period  before and after 
the transfer to [Business B]. The offer below details the full redress youre  due, 
inclusive of both the redress calculated by [HFC] and [Business B].
Mr Bs representative has complained that there were two refunds offered, one for £873.76 
and one for £537.56, but only one amount of £837.76 has been paid. They  say that a total of 
£1,411.32 should be paid or alternatively there  should be a payment to recognise Mr Ms 
trouble and upset  on top of the £837.76, as he had expected to get both amounts.
Ref: DRN31139072One of our adjudicators didnt think HFC needed to pay anything more,  but Mr B disagreed, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HFC has upheld Mr Bs complaint  that PPI was mis-sold  I dont need  to consider that 
further. And Mr B isnt saying the amounts  offered are wrong  or were worked out incorrectly, 
just that the offers werent  clear enough. So in this decision Ive focused on the offers made 
and whether any further compensation needs  to be paid.
I think the offers are sufficiently clear so Mr Bs representatives could have understood what  
was being offered. I think the first letter  makes  clear there would be a second  letter  setting 
out the total amount  of compensation.  And the second letter sets out that the total 
compensation due was £837.76.
I think it could have  been made clearer  that cards ending 8896  and 5104  were actually two 
different card numbers  for the same account, one for when it was with HFC and one for 
when it was with Business  B. But Mr B had only said he had one account  and I think this 
could have been cleared  up easily by Mr Bs representatives contacting Business B or HFC.
Ive also thought about whether HFC needs to pay anything more.  For me to say Mr B 
should get a payment for any trouble or upset caused, Id have to see evidence that he was 
actually caused  some trouble or upset.  But I cant see that he was. He was professionally 
represented throughout and if his representatives didnt understand the offers they could 
have simply contacted Business B to find out what the total offer was. But I cant see Mr B 
was personally caused  any difficulty, so I dont think anything further needs to be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think HFC Bank Limiteds offer is fair and I dont think  it 
needs to do anything further  to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3113907