K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds) gave his wife (Mrs F) incorrect information  about 
adding her as an account  holder to his international account. As a result, he says they 
incurred unnecessary expenses travelling to the United Kingdom (UK) from abroad  to 
amend the account.
I understand Mrs F is a party to this complaint  and shes  been involved in raising  the 
complaint with Lloyds.  But as Mr F is the account  holder, I will mainly refer to him.
background
Mr F holds  an international account which he says he opened while  he was living in the UK. 
At the time of opening the account, he says he was told he would just need  to attend a 
branch of Lloyds  with Mrs F if he wanted to add her as an account  holder. 
In September  2018, Mrs F emailed Lloyds to ask about being  added to the account. Mrs F 
explained that the following month, she intended  to spend some time in London but Mr F 
didnt plan on accompanying  her. She asked whether he would need to be present to amend  
the account to be held jointly by them. 
Lloyds treated Mrs Fs contact as a complaint because  she expressed dissatisfaction in the 
service shed received   due to a lack of response. And on 24 September 2018, Lloyds 
issued a final response letter to Mrs F. This letter explained that to add a party to an 
account, customers need to book an appointment in branch with both people  present. Lloyds 
also apologised for not responding to Mrs Fs emails. 
Mr F says he contacted Lloyds again to confirm whether they definitely had to travel  to the 
UK. And on the advice of Lloyds, hes said he and Mrs F paid for flights, accommodation, 
travel insurance and transfers at a total of around £878  and €232.  
During the appointment in branch, Mr Fs explained he was told Lloyds  couldnt  amend the 
account in branch due to their country of residence.  Hes said he was promised a call back  
from a member of staff after he showed  them  the final response letter  but it was never 
received. Hes said the only reason he and Mrs F travelled to the UK was to amend the 
account. So he thinks Lloyds should cover their travel expenses.
Lloyds has said Mr F couldnt add Mrs F to the account because  he holds an international 
account. And if Mrs F had told the complaint handler this, he wouldve signposted her 
elsewhere for advice.  It also said it didnt  think the trip was just for the purpose  of updating 
the account due to the length of their stay. And it offered £75 as compensation.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mr F contacted our service. He thought Lloyds shouldve 
investigated what type of account  he held before responding to Mrs F. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint because she thought  it was likely Mr and Mrs F had other reasons to 
travel to the UK and she didnt think Lloyds shouldve been reasonably aware  what type of 
account Mr F had from the information  Mrs F had provided. Mr F didnt  agree  with our 
investigators opinion.  He didnt think Lloyds had treated him professionally.  He said they 
travelled to the UK for six days due to the flights being cheaper for those dates and he 
thought Lloyds shouldve checked his account before giving advice. Hes also raised 
concerns that the same  person at Lloyds  dealt with both complaints. Unable to resolve 
things at that stage,  the complaints been  passed to me to make a decision.
Ref: DRN35626662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And based  on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont uphold this complaint. I know  this will be a disappointment  to Mr F. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked carefully  at the correspondence between  Mrs F and Lloyds about  updating  the 
account. And I can see she didnt give any details about the account  Mr F held  including 
any account numbers.  When Lloyds responded to Mrs Fs complaint, it did so as a response 
to a general enquiry and based on the limited information shed given. And I dont  think that 
was unreasonable in the circumstances. Mrs F wasnt an account  holder, Mr F was. So I 
dont think it wouldve been  appropriate  for Lloyds to identify the type of account Mr F holds 
and give Mrs F advice  about another customers account. Nor do I think  there was any 
reason for the bank to suspect, form what Mrs F said,  that the account might  be an 
international one. Overall  I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong in providing the information it 
did. 
I appreciate Mr Fs said he and Mrs F spent  a large  sum of money travelling  to the UK on 
Lloyds advice. And the only reason  for the trip was to amend the account.  But my role is to 
decide what I think most likely happened based on all of the information Ive been given. In 
Mrs Fs initial email  to Lloyds, she mentioned she intended to spend  some time in the UK 
and she wanted  to know whether shed be able to amend  the account without Mr F. So I 
think at least Mrs F had some plans to travel  to the UK anyway.
Mr and Mrs F booked  the trip for six days in total. I understand Mr Fs said the flights  were  
cheaper on those particular days.  But Im not persuaded  if they werent in the UK for any 
other reason, they wouldve chosen to spend  such a significant  amount more on 
accommodation  between around £89 and £120 per night  for the extra days to avoid 
paying more for what theyve described  as a budget  flight. Taking  this together with what Ive 
said about Mrs Fs email, overall,  Im not satisfied  Mr and Mrs F planned  to visit the UK 
purely for the trip to the branch and had no other plans for while they were  here.  And I think  
its more likely they wouldve travelled to the UK anyway.
I know Mr F feels very strongly  about  his complaint and he doesnt  think  Lloyds has treated 
him fairly or professionally. He also doesnt  think both complaints shouldve been  
investigated by the same person at Lloyds. But Lloyds has offered  £75 compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr Fs been caused   in particular due to the service he received when trying 
to speak to someone. And from everything Ive seen  in this case, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to 
have done anything more in this case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds Bank  Plc to do 
anything more than pay the £75 its already offered to put things right.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 August 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3562666