K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1999  when    
Mr P applied for a credit card by post.  Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr P says he cant remember  PPI being  mentioned. BOS has provided a copy of Mr Ps 
application form. Looking  at this, it asks applicants  to sign separately from the credit card if 
they want the PPI.  Mr P has signed in the box for the PPI. There is nothing  to suggest that 
the PPI was compulsory and Mr P couldve just left the box blank if he didnt want  the policy.  
So, I think BOS made  it clear that Mr P didnt have  to take out the PPI - although I can 
understand why Mr P cant  remember this.
As I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mr P had any direct contact with a BOS  advisor at the 
time of the sale, it doesnt look like BOS recommend the PPI to Mr P. So it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information he needed  
to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr P says he would  have received sick pay benefits  from his employer. The policy would 
have paid out alongside any employee benefits  he received as well as covering his 
repayments if he became  unemployed. Mr P says he had some  savings at the time but 
having the policy would have meant he could have used any savings he did have to cover 
other essential costs.  So I think it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr P paid for it. But Halifax will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
When the policy was sold, Halifax expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr P about that. 
Because Halifax didnt tell Mr P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN31353282Halifax has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr P any extra  interest Mr P paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr P the difference between 
what Mr P owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr P 8%* simple  interest  if   
Mr P paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3135328