K821x#15complaint
Miss W says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five loans Uncle Buck provided to Miss W between September 2015 
and November 2016.  Miss Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 10/09/2015 28/09/2015 3 £100.00 £46.54
2 08/01/2016 28/01/2016 3 £500.00 £233.97
3 01/04/2016 28/04/2016 3 £250.00 £123.68
4 29/06/2016 28/07/2016 3 £300.00 £150.57
5 07/11/2016 28/11/2016 3 £200.00 £95.80
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ws complaint and thought the loans from loan 1 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the information Uncle  Buck had gathered  about  Miss W 
showed she was having problems managing her money because she had other  outstanding  
short-term loans when  she was given the first loan. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed and said although Miss Ws credit file showed other short-term loans 
the amounts that had been  borrowed were low and were affordable given Miss Ws declared  
income. Uncle Buck requested an ombudsmans review of the complaint and it was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN35440572the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.  Having done this, Im upholding Miss Ws 
complaint from loan 1. Ill explain  why.
I think Uncle Buck ought to have realised that Miss W wouldnt have been able to make his 
repayments for her loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see Uncle Buck  
did income/expenditure and credit checks on Miss W before it lent the first loan to her. And I 
can see that Uncle Buck has provided  its findings from those checks,  including the reports  
from the credit checks, to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Miss W was able to repay any of her loans in a 
sustainable manner.   The credit check reports show that Miss W already had some  
outstanding short-term loans. This information was apparent each time Uncle  Buck did a 
credit check.  So, it was aware  from the information  it has provided, that it was likely Miss W 
would be unable to sustainable repay not just loan 1 but all the loans. 
I think this was a clear indication that Miss W was in a debt cycle and relying upon borrowing 
to repay  borrowing. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 5 and Uncle  Buck 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loans  1 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 5 from Miss Ws credit  file;
Ref: DRN35440573 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ws complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3544057