K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1993.  Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr C only, in case  he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, Ive not concluded that their PPI policy was 
mis-sold here  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were given the impression they had to buy PPI to get their mortgage,  
whereas Halifax says it didnt tell them  that and that PPI wouldnt  have  been  a requirement. 
I have no reason to doubt either  side. And neither party has the documents  from the sale, 
which is unsurprising given that it was over 25 years  ago and that the mortgage  and PPI 
policy have long since closed. So I need  to consider whats most  likely to have happened.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr and Mrs C about 
whether they had to buy PPI, and Ive got no evidence which  shows  thats what it did. Nor 
have I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. So I dont  think  I can 
fairly conclude that Halifax misrepresented the policy here.  I think its more likely that Mr and 
Mrs C were given  a choice, and chose to buy PPI at the time  even if, understandably, they 
no longer remember  doing so.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr C, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr C doesnt 
seem to have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And while  
he had some work benefits, the PPI covered him more comprehensively and paid out on top. 
Its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs C fell behind on their mortgage payments, they 
risked losing their home. So I think the PPI couldve been useful for them  in protecting their 
home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN32359422Since I dont know exactly what was discussed at the sale, its possible that Halifax  
shouldve given Mr and Mrs C clearer information  about the PPI. The question, then, is 
whether I think better information was likely to have changed their minds.  But as I said 
above, Mr C wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover, and it couldve 
really been useful for Mr and Mrs C in case something went  wrong. It also looks like it 
wouldve been affordable. So I dont think better information was likely to have put Mr and 
Mrs C off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3235942