K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Miss O says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Miss O says that the PPI was added to her credit card without her knowing about  it. But I 
think Barclays made it clear  that Miss O didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long 
ago. I say this because Miss O applied  for her card through the internet  and Barclays  
has shown that in order for PPI to have been added  to her account, Miss O would have 
to actively select it. Barclays has also provided a copy of Miss Os credit  card application 
that was sent to her to sign after she applied online  this also shows  that the PPI was 
optional. Miss O has signed this application, agreeing to the information on it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss O so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss O got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss O about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss O because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss O about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss O, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss O has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
Ref: DRN39467642The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss O any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3946764