K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint  is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr M took out in 1998. It 
was sold to him during a phone call around  ten months after hed applied for the card in 
store.
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr M didnt agree 
but didnt provide any further information or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
There isnt a full record of the sale and Mr M cant remember being sold PPI. This isnt 
surprising given it took place so long ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said during the phone call  theres  no 
longer a recording or a copy of the script  that would have been  used. But FICL wouldve 
needed Mr Ms consent for the policy to be added  to his card and the purpose of the phone  
call wouldve been to discuss  PPI. Mr M wouldve known that he didnt have to have PPI for 
his card application to be successful  hed already had use of the card for a number of 
months. So, overall, I think its most likely  FICL made Mr M aware he had a choice  about  
buying the policy and he chose to take it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But overall I dont think Mr M has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong 
because:
He was eligible for the policy.
It looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information about the cost of 
the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN34504132Mr M told us he wouldve received full sick pay for 25 days if he couldnt work  due to 
sickness or an accident. Under  the terms of the policy,  it wouldve paid out until he 
returned to work if hed made a successful  claim.  The policy also covered  him if hed 
become unemployed.  So I think that, on balance,  the PPI couldve been a useful  benefit  
for Mr M. Hes said he couldve relied on his partner if he wasnt  working, but its likely 
their income  wouldve been needed  for other, priority, bills so this doesnt  change my 
conclusion.
Mr M told us that when he brought the PPI he suffered from a pre-existing medical  
condition. The terms of the policy say that he wouldnt have been covered if hed tried to 
make a claim for this condition.  Mr M says the condition  is unfortunately getting worse 
as he gets older, but I need to consider  his circumstances over 20 years ago when he 
bought the policy. From what  hes told us, it seems  likely to me that in 1998 Mr Ms 
condition was under control through medication, and was unlikely  to have led him to 
take long periods of time off work.  I dont  think he would  have  thought it likely that he 
would have needed  to claim under the policy  because  of his condition.  Overall I think  it 
more likely  than not that Mr M wouldve still taken the policy, even  if the exclusion had 
been brought to his attention.
It doesnt look like Mr M was affected  by any of the other  exclusions or limits on the PPI 
cover, so I dont think having any more information about  these wouldve changed his 
decision to take the policy.
Overall I dont think Mr M has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3450413