K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that Ageas Insurance Limited wont  pay her home  insurance claim for 
accidental or storm damage to her property.
background
Mrs M reported  a claim to Ageas in April 2018.  Her property is let to tenants. Her tenant  
reported that there had been a partial collapse of the rear bedroom  ceiling and rainwater  had 
come through causing damage  to the bedroom.  Ageas sent out a loss adjuster who 
inspected the property. It said that the damage wasnt  due to a storm event. It later clarified  
that the accidental damage cover didnt apply  This was because the damage had in its view 
been occurring  over a period of time, the joists were decayed and the roof had reached  the 
end of its economic  life. Mrs M said that she wasnt asking for the roof to be covered but 
thought the internal damage  by the rainwater  should be covered  as accidental damage.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that as the damage was due to wear and tear 
and had been happening  gradually, it wasnt covered under the accidental damage  section 
of the policy.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it has been established that there was no storm event at the time the damage took 
place. I believe Mrs M accepts that, so I wont consider storm damage any further.
Mrs Ms claim is for accidental damage to the bedroom by rainwater. Accidental damage is 
defined in the policy as:
"Damage that is unexpected and unintended, caused by something sudden and which is not 
deliberate."
Also cover is excluded in the policy for wear  and tear:
We wont  pay for claims that are a result  of wear and tear or anything that happens 
gradually.
Here the site inspection  showed that the roof is showing signs of thermal damage  and has 
reached the end of its economic life. The underlying  joists are in a partial state of advanced 
decay indicating prolonged  exposure  to a water source.
I think that this shows that the damage, caused  by rainwater  getting in, happened over time 
rather than as a result of a one-off  incident  in April 2018 when the ceiling collapsed. The 
inspection revealed  no indication of storm damage to the roof. And I think its likely, because  
of the state of the internal joists, that this had been  happening over a prolonged period of 
time.
Ref: DRN37006832When there is gradual damage, if it is hidden (eg a leaking pipe within  a wall) we may say it 
wasnt reasonable for the insurer to rely on an exclusion  for gradual loss. But here there  
were clearly serious maintenance issues both with the roof and the internal bedroom ceiling. 
The roof was nearing the end of its economic  life and the joists were in a partial state of 
advanced decay.  I think it would be reasonable to expect those issues  to be picked up 
earlier.
So I dont  think the damage was caused  by something sudden and I think  it was 
reasonable for Ageas to say the main cause of the damage was wear and tear.
handling of the claim
Mrs M says that her claim was declined by phone and she didnt receive  any 
correspondence advising her of her rights. She reported the claim on 3 April 2018. The 
inspection took place on 4 April. The loss adjusters  wrote to her on 9 April declining  the 
claim. On 20 April Ageas sent Mrs M a final response letter  confirming it wouldnt be paying 
the claim and it advised her of her right to refer her complaint  to this service.
I dont think there was any delay in Ageas  handling of the claim which I think  was handed  
fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3700683