K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS), 
trading as Audi Financial Services, asked him to pay to refurbish a car at the end of its lease.
background 
Mr C took receipt of a used car in August  2014.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. The car was first registered in April 2014 and had 
completed a little less than 5,000  miles when it was supplied to him.
He voluntarily terminated his agreement in July 2018 and an inspection of the vehicle was 
arranged for the following month. But the inspector failed to show  up and when a further 
arrangement failed Mr C left the car with the dealership who arranged for the inspection in 
his absence.
The inspector noted several  areas  of damage. VWFS said the contract they had with Mr C 
required him to pay for refurbishment of the damage and they therefore  asked him to pay to 
rectify the following issues:
1 front bumper dent £138
2 Rear bumper dent £138
3 interior soiled £27
4 sill dent £138
5 LHF wheel scratched £36
Mr C complained to VWFS. He said:
as they had failed to inspect the car in his possession hed been denied  an 
opportunity to agree or disagree  with the inspectors  findings and denied an 
opportunity to repair any damage at lower cost;
the damage was caused whilst  the car was in VWFSs possession  and not whilst he 
had it;
the compensation of £125.85 theyd  paid him in respect of the delay to inspections  
and his need to extend insurance  and tax, was inadequate and didnt take account of 
the inconvenience hed experienced;
the standard the car was to be inspected to had not been explained to him until the 
last minute;
VWFS hadnt made allowance for the fact hed added extras  to the car and 
completed less than the allowable mileage.  He said these  factors  would have 
increased the value  of the car at auction.
VWFS didnt  agree with Mr C so he referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator 
provided an opinion.  He reviewed the photographs of the damage in the inspectors report 
against the industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when a car is 
returned at the end of its lease: provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). In each case he thought there  was clear evidence  the damage was in 
excess of fair wear and tear. He noted  that the hire purchase  agreement  Mr C had entered 
into allowed VWFS  to charge him for damage  or deterioration of the vehicle  in excess  of fair 
wear and tear so he didnt think theyd been wrong to levy the charge. 
Ref: DRN31143562He noted that since  hed been reviewing the case VWFS had offered a further £100 on top of 
the £125.85 they had already  paid Mr C in relation to the missed  inspections. He thought this 
was reasonable.
He said the BVRLA  guidance recommended that the consumer was present  during the 
inspection of the car but that this wasnt essential  and he therefore didnt think  VWFS had 
been wrong to inspect  the car in Mr Cs absence.  He understood that Mr C thought the 
damage had occurred whilst the car was not in his possession but on balance he thought  it 
was more likely to have  occurred whilst he had the car.
He thought it was reasonable  to suggest that Mr C could have had repairs  completed to the 
car prior to collection and he therefore  didnt think hed been disadvantaged by not being 
allowed to complete them afterwards. 
He noted that VWFSs  letter  to Mr C in July had referred him to the BVRLA guidelines and 
he thought that was sufficient and demonstrated Mr C had been  made  aware of the 
inspection standard.  And, overall,  the adjudicator didnt  think it would be fair to ask VWFS to 
take any further action.
But Mr C disagreed with the adjudicator and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr C so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The terms of Mr Cs finance agreement  allowed  VWFS to charge  him for damage or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear. 
The BVRLA set the industry guidelines about what should be considered fair wear  and tear 
when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease periods. Im persuaded that Mr C had 
been informed  there  could  be charges levied as this was detailed  in the finance agreement  
he signed in 2014. Im also persuaded that the standard  the inspector would apply was 
explained to him in a letter sent in July 2018;  a few months before the car was returned, 
when he was referred to a link to the BVRLA standard.  I think  there was adequate time in 
which Mr C could have arranged repairs and Im not persuaded  he was disadvantaged by 
Ref: DRN31143563not being present at the inspection. Had he been so, and had he asked  to complete the 
repairs himself,  there would have been  a further  chargeable  delay to the termination of the 
contract and a charge for a further  inspection.  
Ive reviewed the damage to the car that is evidenced in the inspection  photographs and 
considered the damage against the BVRLA  standard. In all cases  I agree with our 
adjudicators view that the damage  would be considered  beyond  normal  wear  and tear and 
was therefore  chargeable.  Mr C had the car for four years but it was only with VWFS for a 
matter of weeks before the inspection was completed.  In those circumstances  I think  its 
more likely the damage in the inspectors report happened  whilst the car was in Mr Cs 
possession.
It was clearly frustrating for the inspection to be delayed but Im persuaded that VWFS have 
adequately compensated  Mr C for that. Theyve  agreed to pay him £125.85  in relation to the 
costs associated with having to extend his agreement. And, theyve also now agreed to 
provide a further £100. I think thats  reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr C is disappointed VWFS havent taken into account the extras fitted  to 
the car or the low mileage. But they dont have to do this as it wasnt  part of the contract. 
So, overall, I dont  think theres evidence VWFS  have been  unreasonable  and Im not asking 
them to take any further action other than to pay the additional compensation theyve already 
agreed to.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to pay Mr C £100 (unless theyve already done 
so) to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by the failed inspections 
they organised.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3114356