K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused  to pay his claim for the costs  of 
surgery under his travel insurance policy. 
My references to AXA include its agents.  
background
Mr P and his wife were  on an extended  trip abroad when he began  to feel very unwell. He 
took medication but this didnt relieve  his symptoms. At the end of a tour he went  to hospital 
where he had an exploratory procedure followed by surgery to correct a hiatus hernia. His 
symptoms were immediately relieved. He made  a claim to AXA for the costs.
AXA paid part of Mr Ps claim for the medication  hed needed to treat his symptoms.  But 
AXA wouldnt pay for the surgery. It said its medical  staff had reviewed the medical  evidence  
Mr P sent it after surgery. The medical team concluded the surgery wasnt a medical 
emergency. This meant the surgery expenses werent covered under the policy terms. AXA 
did accept it had handled the complaint poorly  and shouldnt have asked for Mr Ps GPs 
opinion. It paid some compensation for that. Mr P said it wasnt  fair that AXA had refused to 
pay for the surgery and came to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint because he said AXA had reached a fair 
decision not to pay for the surgical  costs.  Mr P has asked for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to read of Mr Ps illness during his holiday.  Ive thought  carefully about all of Mr Ps 
comments and his surgeons comments and reports. Having done so I think  AXA reached a 
fair decision not to pay his claim for the surgery. Ill explain  my reasons  and in doing so Ill 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues in this complaint.
The starting point  is the policy.  In summary the policy covers  emergency medical, surgical  
and hospital expenses which are necessarily incurred during a trip as a result of unforeseen 
illness. AXA says the insured person must obtain AXAs  prior authorisation before  incurring  
any expenses over £500 or as quickly as they can if prior authorisation isnt possible.
The policy doesnt  cover  any treatment or surgery  that can wait until the insured person 
returns to their home area. AXA specifically excludes claims for any form of treatment or 
surgery which in its opinion, based on information provided by the attending doctor, can be 
delayed reasonably until the insured person returns home. 
Mr P wasnt  able to speak to AXA before the surgery and the costs  were more than £500.  
When he did make  contact  shortly after surgery AXA properly arranged for the information 
provided by Mr Ps surgeon  abroad to be reviewed by its medically trained staff. 
Having reviewed the medical evidence AXAs opinion  was that the surgery could have 
waited until Mr P returned to the UK. I think  it fairly  assessed his claim and reached a 
Ref: DRN36128122reasonable claims decision that the surgery didnt constitute a medical emergency. This 
means that it fairly  didnt pay the surgical  costs. 
Mr P has explained that he is bringing  this complaint as a point of principle rather  than to 
recover the money under the claim. He explains that hed been tested a few years previously 
in the UK for a hernia and since then his GP had been treating him for symptoms  including 
indigestion. During his trip his symptoms were  very unpleasant for him. He says a friend 
arranged the appointment at the hospital  where he had the surgery, and I appreciate  Mr P 
says that appointment was in the emergency department  of the hospital. 
Mr Ps surgeon described his symptoms at the time of surgery as severe. Mr P has 
explained how the symptoms were spoiling his holiday for himself  and his travelling 
companions. But this doesnt mean that AXA had to authorise or pay for the surgery  unless it 
was medically necessary  as a medical  emergency. And I find that AXA did properly consider 
the claim with its own medical  staff,  having reviewed the medical  evidence  available to it. 
AXA has also reviewed the information  sent subsequently by Mr Ps surgeon.  His surgeon 
has described Mr Ps condition just before the surgery  as acute on chronic.  The surgeon  
said Mr P had had symptoms for years and wasnt getting better  with conservative treatment. 
The surgeon says the surgery cured the root cause of the symptoms.  As such, he has 
supported Mr Ps claim.  
But this isnt a private  medical insurance  claim, where its often the case  that only acute  
medical conditions  are covered under the policy terms and chronic  ones arent covered. 
Rather its a travel insurance  policy where the travel insurer  will pay only for emergency  
surgery that cant wait until the insured person gets back to the UK. 
I appreciate Mr P says the medication  had side effects. But I think AXA reached  a 
reasonable conclusion, in consultation with its medical staff that Mr Ps surgery  to treat the 
hiatus hernia could have  waited until hed returned  to the UK. And I think AXA has shown 
that it would  have reached  the same decision even  if Mr P had been  able to speak with its 
assistance staff before  he had the surgery.
AXA accepted its claims handling could have  been better. It apologised for this and paid 
Mr P compensation for distress and inconvenience  and for obtaining  a GP letter.  I think  that 
was reasonable  and for the reasons Ive explained  I dont require AXA to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3612812