K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995 through a postal application. Mr F says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold 
him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr F has said he was not given adequate information or an explanation about  PPI. He has 
said he would never have benefitted  from the policy and he didnt need it because  of the sick 
pay he would have  received from him employer at the time and the savings he had. 
These events took place  a considerable time ago and I certainly  dont doubt Mr Fs 
recollections about being mis-sold the PPI are genuinely and honestly held. Records show  
that he actually  applied for his credit card through  the post. We know  this because weve 
been sent the postal  application  form he filled out and signed.
Having looked  at the application, I can see it gave what  appears  to be an obvious choice to 
either have,  or not have, the PPI. Mr F ticked the box to add the PPI policy and he signed 
the form too. If Mr F didnt  want PPI, he could have ticked  to not take it. So I think Barclays 
made it clear  that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although 
I can understand why he cant remember this now many years later.  
As this was a postal  application, I think Mr F would have completed the application  without 
any intervention from Barclays. I also think he would have done this in his own time. So it 
wasnt an advised sale and Barclays didnt therefore need to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr F. The decision about  buying the cover and whether it was right for him was 
for Mr F to make. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr F got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said and Ive considered all the information Mr F has 
provided regarding  his finances  and sick pay. But this policy  would cover  10% of the 
outstanding balance of his account  for up to 12 months if he was too sick to work or he lost 
his job. And this would  be in addition to, and potentially for longer, than any other sick pay he 
Ref: DRN33923422would receive. And it wouldve allowed him to use any savings he had for other expenses, or 
keep them intact for the future.  So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
So I dont  think Mr F lost out as a result of anything Barclays mightve done wrong in relation 
to the sale. 
Barclays doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But Barclays  has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3392342