K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  the cash settlement they received from 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G) after they made  a claim under their home 
insurance policy for damage caused  by an escape  of water.
background
Mr and Mrs L suffered damage to their home following an escape of water. They  contacted 
L&G to make a claim under their home insurance policy.
L&G arranged for its agent (which  Ill call B) to visit the property and assess the damage.  B 
confirmed the damage  was covered  by the policy. It drew up a schedule  of work and said the 
cost to carry this out would be £1,535.  It told Mr and Mrs L that if they wished to appoint their 
own contractor to do the work, rather than allow L&G to do it, this amount would be paid to 
them as a cash settlement (minus the £600 policy excess).
Mr and Mrs L obtained their own quotes  for the work to carried  out. The quotes they received 
were far higher than £1,535. They passed these quotes to B and asked it to increase the 
cash settlement offer.
In light of the quotes received, B agreed  to add certain items to the schedule of work and 
increased the cash settlement offer to £1,837 (minus the £600 policy excess).
Mr and Mrs L were  still unhappy at the offer.  They complained  to L&G.  However, it wouldnt 
increase the cash  settlement amount and pointed out that under the terms of the policy it 
wasnt obliged to offer any more  than the amount it would cost if it were to carry out the 
repair using its own contractor.
Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that L&G had acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  findings.  The matter has therefore been passed  
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states,  under  the heading  Our rights  when  you make a claim::
We may nominate one of our specialist  suppliers to repair  or replace the property claimed 
for. Where you prefer to use your own tradesman,  or we elect  to settle the claim by cash 
payment, the amount we pay you will not exceed what we would have paid our supplier, 
except when our supplier is unable to repair  or replace the property.
L&G was prepared to carry  out the repairs using its own contractor. Mr and Mrs L wanted  
instead to use someone  else. L&G agreed  therefore to provide a cash  settlement. However, 
Ref: DRN37148082Im satisfied that under the terms of the policy, this settlement needed to be no more  than 
the amount L&G would have paid its own contractor.
B initially estimated  that the work would cost £1,535.  After  receiving the quotes  from Mr and 
Mrs L, it agreed to amend  the schedule of work  to include the cost of replacing the toilet  and 
additional plastering. It therefore  increased  its estimate of the repair costs to £1,837.  Im 
satisfied that this would have been the cost which L&G would have incurred had it employed 
its own contractors to carry out the schedule of work. Im therefore satisfied that this (minus 
the policy excess) was a fair cash settlement offer should Mr and Mrs L instead  decide to 
employ their own contractors.   
Mr and Mrs L have pointed out that the schedule of work provided by B had no breakdown to 
show how the overall cost had been calculated. I acknowledge this is the case but I consider 
that L&G wasnt obliged  to reveal  this information. It has explained that it regards such  
details as commercially  sensitive.
Overall, Im satisfied that L&G has acted  fairly  in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3714808