K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a 
FlexPlus packaged bank  account in 2013.
background
Our adjudicators have  looked at Mr Ls complaint. They didnt think Nationwide  had mis-sold 
the account. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ls complaint. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Mr Ls complaint relates to him saying  he was not told about  the need  to declare pre-existing 
Medical Conditions  (PEMCs) for the travel  insurance policy and that he did not drive  and 
therefore did not need the breakdown cover that came  with the account.
This account was sold over the phone and from my understanding of Nationwides  sales 
process no personal recommendation was made. This means  it was up to Mr L to decide if 
the account was right for him bearing  in mind what it included. But Nationwide  did have to 
provide him with clear enough information to do this.
When Mr L upgraded to the FlexPlus account  it included benefits such  as mobile phone 
insurance and travel  insurance.  From what Ive seen, Mr L had a need  for the travel 
insurance benefit and the mobile phone  insurance.  And as Mr L is unhappy  with a claim on 
the mobile phone  insurance this suggests  that he was, at least,  relying on this cover. 
In relation to the travel  insurance I think that it is likely  that Nationwide followed its sales 
checklist in which it would  highlight the need to declare any PEMCs to the insurer. I can also 
see that in 2013 Mr L did declare his medical  conditions and paid an extra fee to be covered.  
Moreover, it seems that he made a claim in 2017. So overall, I am satisfied that he was told 
enough about how the travel insurance policy worked and specifically that hed need to 
check with the insurer  whether  any existing medical  conditions would be covered.
Ive thought about what Mr L has said about not being informed any replacement  handset 
would be refurbished, rather  than new, and that an excess  would payable.  I want  to start by 
saying that I dont know what information Mr L was or wasnt  provided with about  the mobile 
phone insurance  when Nationwide sold the FlexPlus  account to him. But Nationwide  did 
have to specifically  highlight any key limitations or exclusions  and any terms that were 
significant or onerous. 
In other  words, Nationwide had to explain things such as what Mr L needed to do to use the 
mobile phone insurance,  or anything that was unusual about  this policy compared to others 
generally available.  But Nationwide  didnt have to tell Mr L about every  single term on the 
Ref: DRN32210472policy. Ive thought about what  Mr L has said about  the mobile phone insurance  policy  
considering this. 
The first thing for me to say is that providing  refurbished replacements  are common features 
of mobile phone insurance  policies - as are excesses. So, I dont  think it was necessarily 
unreasonable if the term relating to refurbished replacements  wasnt drawn to his attention 
or what the amount of excess  would be  the latter of which  was a typical  excess  amount 
applied to mobile phone insurance policies.  
I accept that Mr L may not have been  told everything about  all the remainder  of the 
insurance benefits. But I cant see anything specific that he was not told that I believe 
wouldve altered  his decision to take out the account. So I dont think that clearer  information 
on this wouldve made a difference to his decision to take out the accounts. 
I accept that Mr L may now,  with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that he hasnt benefitted  
from this account as much as hed hoped and expected to when he initially upgraded. 
And given  what Mr L may have read or heard about  packaged bank accounts in general and 
his experience of making a claim, I can understand why he might think  his account was mis-
sold. But I think that Mr L chose to take the FlexPlus account while  having  a decent 
appreciation of what it included  and being  able to use a significant proportion of the benefits.  
So overall, I dont  think that Nationwide did anything  significantly wrong here.
I note Mr Ls concerns in relation to the interest rate that he received on several  loans, but 
the loan rates were clearly set out on the loan agreements  and therefore  I dont think 
Nationwide did anything  wrong in relation to this.
I want to reassure Mr L that Ive looked at all the information provided about his complaint.  
And Ive thought about everything hes said. But having done so, I dont think that 
Nationwide has treated him unfairly. So Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3221047