K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc removed credits  from his account and 
returned them to the sender.
background 
Mr N received payments  of £499  and £130  into his account on 9 August 2018. But the 
person sending both of those payments then reported them  as fraudulently  obtained. That 
persons bank requested the money back from NatWest. Mr N says he provided  evidence 
that the payments were related to genuine business  trading  and said NatWest should  let him 
have the money  and pay him compensation.
NatWest initially said that it wouldnt re-credit the money to Mr N as it was expecting to 
receive an indemnity  from the senders bank. And that it would then return the money and 
this would be a civil matter between Mr N and that sender. It reconsidered its position after 
the case had been referred to this service  and on 20 November 2018 refunded the money  to 
Mr N. 
Our investigator said that NatWest had also since recognised that the removal  of the 
payments had contributed to an overdraft on Mr Ns account. And he said that its offer to 
refund charges of £60 and interest of £13.78 applied from 9 August 2018 and pay 
compensation of £50 was a fair one. Those credits were made on 7 October 2019 but Mr N 
didnt accept this resolution especially as there was still an overdrawn balance  of £39.23 on 
his account. He wanted his account to continue  to operate and didnt think hed been 
compensated for what happened. A further offer was made either  that he repay  the balance  
of £39.23 and the account  would continue  to operate or NatWest  would  write  the balance  off 
and close his account.
Mr N didnt agree that either of the options  was acceptable and was upset to have received 
collection letters from NatWest about the overdraft. He said that it had no legal right to close 
his account and it had agreed  to pay him thousands  in compensation for lost earnings.  He 
said he was making  three to ten similar  trades  a day with a profit of over £100  per trade.    
Mr N said he might take the case to court. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained above NatWest acted on a report from another bank to say that this money in 
Mr Ns account had been fraudulently obtained.  I can understand why it took this report 
seriously and initially  removed the money  from his account. Ive seen the evidence  about the 
trading Mr N had carried  out with the sender. NatWest looked  at this but issued a final 
response on 18 October 2018 saying that it wouldnt be refunding the money  and then 
refunded it about  a month later.
There is no record of NatWest agreeing to pay him compensation for loss of earnings. It told 
him that he shouldnt be using  a personal account for business  trades.  And hes confirmed to 
this service that hes since opened  an account elsewhere to do so. There was clearly  a delay 
before he got his money back. The primary issue appears to be a dispute with the person 
hed carried out trades  with. And because that person did report the payments as fraudulent 
Ref: DRN30261932NatWest had to investigate what happened and deal with a correctly  formed indemnity from 
the senders bank. But it has accepted that based  on Mr Ns evidence that the  Fraud  
Department should have refunded [him].
I dont think in these  circumstances  NatWest is fairly responsible for any loss of earnings that 
Mr N claims. This was a fraud dispute,  there  was always going  to be a need for time for 
NatWest to investigate  this and Mr N was said to be acting outside the terms and conditions 
of the account  by using it for business purposes. NatWest paid him £50 for the 
inconvenience caused by the time taken to refund the money.
I can see from his statement that Mr Ns account was already  overdrawn before the credits.  
So the removal of them didnt cause an overdraft. Mr N had made further payments from his 
account too and so even  when these disputed transactions were credited back  and the 
compensation later paid there was still an overdraft  of £39.23. I think Mr N was fairly 
responsible for this. 
NatWest has said that as he didnt repay this overdraft despite its requests and use the 
account again it closed it and wrote  off the balance. Im afraid it was entitled under its terms 
and conditions to decide not to operate an account  for Mr N. 
This problem  clearly arose as I say out of a dispute  between Mr N and the person he was 
trading with. I think NatWest had offered  a fair resolution to what happened and so I wont 
now be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part on the basis that since  the complaint has 
been referred to us NatWest has refunded the payments and paid compensation as I set out 
above. I am not requiring  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3026193