K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited has incorrectly imposed charges and issued a 
default notice  for arrears  on his account when  it was in credit. He wants a refund of the 
charges and an acknowledgement they were wrongly imposed.
background
Mr S tells us he overpaid his loan which he says resulted in him being ahead with payments 
and having interest  rebated.  He says he stopped paying at a time when he was three 
months ahead  with his payments. But he states  that Moneybarn then imposed charges for 
arrears and sent two default notices. He says its also failed to send him a statement of his 
account or explain how the arrears were calculated.
Moneybarn told us that Mr S had entered the agreement during 2015  and that payments fell 
due on a monthly basis. It said that where a partial early repayment  is made  it applied  an 
interest rebate - which reduced  the term over which the loan was repaid. But it said that 
(monthly) payments still fall due as normal and if they are not paid this will result  in arrears. 
It said Mr S had been contacted numerous  times about the arrears.
Moneybarn said it accepted that the first default notice charge, which was applied in 
December 2017,  was made in error  and said it had been reversed. It said the later default 
notice charge, on 4 June  2018, was correct  as the arrears at the time were  over £1,100. It 
said the arrears had increased  significantly  since then. And it told us it had been unable to 
fully discuss issues or correspond with Mr S as hed requested it communicate by email. But 
as hed sent security  information from an unrecognised email  address - it was unable to 
proceed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 July 2019. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint - but only in part. I found  that Moneybarn  should have been clearer in 
its explanations  to Mr S as to how payments would be treated. I said that - whilst Mr S might 
not have received them - I was satisfied it had sent statements to Mr S. And it had been 
entitled to apply charges and send the default  notice in June 2018 - as Mr S hadnt complied 
with the terms and conditions of the agreement. I said I intended  to require Moneybarn to 
pay £100 compensation to Mr S.
Moneybarn has not replied to my provisional decision. Mr S replied saying that he didnt 
think £100 was enough compensation to cover  the letters and emails hed sent, or for 
Moneybarns conduct in not dealing  with the complaint  clearly.  He thought the £400  originally 
suggested by our adjudicator was fair.
I thank Mr S for his reply and Ive noted his comments. But for reasons Ill explain in my final 
decision - which is set out below - I shant be changing my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr S has experienced a period of uncertainty and inconvenience regarding  the 
repayment of this loan. And I understand his wish to sort things  out and establish an 
accurate and up to date position.
Ref: DRN31672752Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I have  to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  is the most  likely explanation to 
account for whats happened. In trying  to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell 
us, and we look to documentary and other evidence to help us reach  a decision.
In reading through the information with which Ive been provided my lasting impression  is 
that this situation  could  easily have  been avoided. But I think  this is a case  where  
responsibility is shared  and to some extent both parties have dug their heels in and not 
been as flexible as might have been  desirable.
Im aware that Mr S has said he didnt receive the statements of account  he requested - and 
he repeated this in his reply to my provisional decision. But Ive seen evidence that leads me 
to think they were sent - in December 2017 and also with the final response letter of 
February 2018. If Mr S did not receive  them  then its unfortunate but I cant  hold Moneybarn  
responsible for any failings of the party responsible for delivering his mail.
Some unusual features arise out of this complaint and I think it will help explain my decision 
if I summarise the sequence of events which has led to the present dispute.
The conditional sale agreement  was incepted in March 2015. It required Mr S to pay an 
initial sum of £250 and 59 fixed  monthly payments. In June 2015,  Mr S chose to make a 
partial early  settlement (PES)  of £393. This resulted in a reduction of future interest 
payments. And also a reduction of the term over which the agreement was paid. Ive seen  a 
letter dated  20 July 2015 which Moneybarn sent to Mr S and which  set out the way this PES 
would affect the agreement. This stated:
The rebate represents future interest that you will no longer pay as a result of your Partial  
Early Settlement. It has been  calculated with regard to the Consumer Credit (Early  
Settlement) Regulations  2004.
Our company policy is to reduce  the term of your agreement whilst your monthly  repayments  
stay the same. Below  are details of your future payments:
51 payments of.. August 2015  to October  2019,  followed by 1 payment of.  on November 
2019.
The Early Settlement  Regulations set out how a business must calculate rebates of interest  
when either  full or partial repayments are made early.  The formula  used  is complex and the 
calculation is invariably  done by computer, but I believe Moneybarn calculated and applied  
the rebate  in this case correctly.
For several months thereafter  Mr S made the contractual  payments - but in early  2017 he 
said he stopped  paying because he had issues. From then on Mr S made irregular 
payments rather than for his contracted monthly amounts. And there were a series  of direct 
debit failures for which charges were  applied.
When he complained  to us in June 2018 - following  the issue  of the second default  notice - 
Mr S told us he was ahead with payments on the agreement. And he produced  calculations  
which he said supported  this view. In summary,  Mr S referred to the default notice of 8 
January, 2018  which stated that payments totalling £13,117.20 had been made. But he said 
that the total of monthly payments due between April 2015 and December 2017 was only 
£12,777.27 (33 monthly payments) - so he couldnt  have been  in arrears.
Ref: DRN31672753I think I understand the point Mr S is trying  to make and I accept it may seem paradoxical 
that payments  for more  than the original contracted amount  have been  made  yet the account  
is in arrears.
The explanation for this is to be found  - although its not explicitly  explained - in Moneybarns  
letter of 20 July 2015.
By making  a PES, Mr S benefitted  by reducing the number  of monthly payments over which 
the agreement  would  be paid. In other words, the savings were  towards the end of the 
agreement. But - as the letter states  - the scheduled  monthly  payments remained  the same  
until the full amount was repaid. So if monthly  payments  were  missed - as they were - 
arrears arose from that point and charges were applied.
Where I think Moneybarn  should have been  more helpful is in trying to explain things to 
Mr S. I dont criticise  it for sending notices of arrears and the default  notice of June 2018 - it 
was required to do so by regulation. But I think from reading the contact notes  it should  have 
realised that Mr S did not fully understand the way the debt was calculated,  despite the 
contents of the letter.  Standard format letters have their place but it seems  to me that good 
practice and fairness  require that where  its apparent - or should  be - that a customer has not 
fully understood  what was being  said, then a more  personalised  response is necessary.
At the time the January 2018 default  notice was sent the amount owing was £9,995.01. 
But by June 2018, according  to the default  notice which was sent at that time, the debt had 
reduced to £8,145.87. So this wasnt a case of a customer not making payments - but one 
where a customer was seeking an explanation so he could understand the ongoing situation.
Unfortunately matters seem to have deteriorated  since then and Mr S informed us that hed 
stopped making  payments. He told us:
I have no problem paying  but refuse  to out of principle.
And in his response to my provisional decision,  Mr S re-stated that he was entitled to 
withhold payments  until this dispute  had been  resolved. Mr S is entitled  to his view - its not 
one I share  - but theres nothing in the terms of the agreement that permits the withholding  of 
payments pending  a resolution of a dispute.  
The latest statement  Ive seen, dated 23 February 2019, shows  direct debits are largely 
returned unpaid  but that other payments - not for the contracted  monthly amount - are being 
made. The sum owed  is just over £6,600 but arrears  are put at over £3,100. We would not 
advise a customer to stop making  contractual payments as this can have a serious  and 
detrimental effect on a credit file and the ability of the customer  to access  credit  in the future. 
Although Ive not been provided with information as to whether the arrears  have been 
reported to the credit  reference agencies - I will assume that this would be the case.
Arrears can also lead to the termination  of the agreement and possible repossession of the 
vehicle - although here this would require a court  order as Mr S has paid the major portion of 
the agreement. 
In summary,  I find that Moneybarn did send Mr S account statements in December 2017 and 
February 2018. And as I think Mr S hadnt  complied with the terms and conditions  of the 
agreement in relation to payments I think it was entitled to apply charges and send the 
default notice  in June 2018.  Moneybarn has acknowledged it should not have applied a 
Ref: DRN31672754default charge  in December 2017 - but as that was quickly reversed I shant be asking it to 
do anything else about that matter.
I do think it should have  made more  effort  to assist Mr S with a clearer explanation as to how 
payments were treated. And if it had done  so, I think its possible hed have altered the 
pattern of repayments  to meet his obligations. So I think it should pay £100 to Mr S to 
compensate for this.
Im aware Mr S doesnt think this sum is sufficient but I think  its fair and reasonable. The 
purpose of compensation is not to penalise a business. And I think  the error made by 
Moneybarn is relatively minor. It didnt explain things as well as it might  but it did confirm that 
contractual monthly payments  still needed to be made.
Its to be expected that - when a complaint is made - the maker of the complaint would 
spend a reasonable amount of time and effort in pursuing it. So its not appropriate  to award  
extra compensation simply because this is the case.
Im aware my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr S. And he is under no obligation 
to accept it. Although  in that case Moneybarn will not be bound by it either.
But whether  or not he does so, it will bring to an end our involvement as an independent 
resolution service.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint but only in part.
I require Moneybarn No.1 Limited to pay Mr S £100  for failing to give him a clearer 
explanation as to how his account payments would be applied.
If there are arrears  on the account this sum can be applied to reduce that figure. If there  are 
no arrears then payment  should be made  directly  to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3167275