K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) refused a claim on his 
motorcycle insurance policy.
background
Mr S made a claim on his policy following the theft of his motorcycle.  
MCE considered the claim  but decided to void the policy without a refund of any premiums. 
This is because it believes Mr S misrepresented the risk when  he took out the policy by 
telling MCE he keeps  the motorcycle in a brick garage whilst at his home  address. It says 
this answer wasnt correct because the parking facilities  were Mr S lives are a communal car 
park for residents. 
Mr S says his bike was stolen from his friends  house where  he was saying overnight  and 
not from his home. So he doesnt think its relevant whether its a garage or not. But he says 
he contacted MCE in April 2018 to check that his circumstances were considered to be a 
garage and he was assured they were.  
Our investigator wasnt convinced that Mr S had made  a misrepresentation. She felt the 
parking facilities have similar characteristics  to a garage.  And she said Mr S had contacted  
MCE in April 2018 to clarify the arrangements. She recommended that the policy be 
reinstated and the claim considered under the terms and conditions.  She also recommended 
compensation. 
 
MCE didnt agree. It said there was no record of Mr S calling in April 2018, and he was 
given enough  information by email  to be aware  that his parking facilities  wouldnt be 
considered a garage. 
As MCE  disagreed with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
MCE says the policy  was voided  because  there  was a misrepresentation by Mr S. The law 
relating to misrepresentation is set out in the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure  and
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). CIDRA says a consumer  has a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to the insurer. So Ive considered  what  
Mr S was asked and how he answered 
Mr S bought the policy by phone. Ive listened  to the call between him and MCE on 
25 November 2017. On this call Mr S is asked  where his motorcycle is kept when  hes at 
home - when it is at this postcode, where  is it stored or parked? Im satisfied MCE asked a 
clear question.
Mr S answered its parked in a garage, made  out of brick. 
In my judgment Mr S didnt take reasonable care when answering the question. I say this 
having looked at the photos of the parking facilities, and a satellite view of his home  address. 
I accept that there is a door from the road into the parking area. But its clear  this is a 
communal parking area. His motorbike was parked in an area described by a sign as a 
motorcycle bay and in the photo Ive seen  there  are a number  of motorbikes parked there.  
Ref: DRN33232602Even if the facilities are to some extent secure,  they are open to other residents of the 
building. I dont agree  Mr S could reasonably describe it as a garage, or that any reasonable 
customer would consider it to be one. MCE  says the misrepresentation was deliberate  or 
reckless. Mr S must  have  known a communal parking  area is not the same thing as a 
garage. In these  circumstances  I think it was at least reckless.
MCE sent the policy documents to Mr s electronically the day after this call took place. So he 
had an opportunity to check the position. The policy booklet confirms  that a garage is a 
lockable brick, concrete,  steel, stone or wooden building with a roof constructed  of slate, tile, 
steel or wood in which to park or keep a motor vehicle, for your sole purpose.
I think this is a clear definition of a garage. And the place where Mr S kept his motorbike 
doesnt fall within this definition. If Mr S had any uncertainty  over what defines  a garage, the 
policy booklet clarifies  it. And from this definition, hed be able to establish  that this did not 
apply to his parking facilities. But from the information Ive seen, Mr S didnt open his 
documents.
MCE has shown that it would not have  offered the policy to Mr S at the same  price, if it had 
known the motorbike was to be parked in a communal  parking area rather  than a garage  
the premium would have been quite a bit higher. This means there  was a qualifying  
misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Mr S says he spoke to MCE in April 2018,  after receiving an email from them, when  he 
clarified the parking arrangements. If MCE had confirmed at this time that the parking area 
would be considered a garage, then I think it would be held to that, and wouldnt  be able to 
rely on the earlier misrepresentation.
MCE provided a copy of an email it sent to its customers on 16 April 2018 clarifying the 
policy definition. This email said: when  you took out your policy with MCE Insurance  you 
advised us that you keep  your bike in a garage. We are emailing our customers  to remind  
them that we class a garage  as a building for housing a motor vehicle(s) which  isnt used  
communally. If you keep  your bike in a shared car park, a parking area under flats or a 
house/factory/workplace this is not classified  as a garage.
Mr S says he contacted  MCE  in response to this email. And hes shown us his phone 
records that he called them.  But this was on 4 April 2018. As this was twelve  days before the 
email was sent, Mr S says he must  have  received  it earlier. Im not persuaded this was the 
case as MCEs records show it was sent on 16 April and that Mr S opened  it on the 16 and 
again on 21 April.  
MCE say it didnt receive any calls in April 2018  from Mr S and it has provided us with 
screenshots of its system to show this. This is contradictory to Mr Ss phone records  which  
shows he called on 4 April 2018.
Looking at Mr S call records,  I can see that he called MCEs number at 17:02 for 1.12 
minutes. He then called  back  at 17:03 for 28.41  minutes, and then again at 17:32 for 10.18 
minutes. Ive thought  about why Mr S would call three times, each time calling immediately 
after ending the previous  call. I think the most likely explanation is that Mr S was in a queue 
waiting to get through, and gave  up or was cut off. This would be consistent with the fact that 
MCEs records show no calls were received from Mr S, and it has no record of a discussion 
with him.
Ref: DRN33232603On balance, having considered all the evidence, Im not satisfied MCE ever agreed to treat 
the parking area as a garage  the evidence all points to the opposite.
CIDRA gives further information  about the types  of misrepresentation and what  an insurer 
can do depending  on the type.  Where  there  is a reckless misrepresentation, MCE may void 
the policy and refuse  the claim.  And it need  not return the premium unless it would be unfair 
to keep it.
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S did not keep his motorcycle in a garage. 
And Im persuaded enough  that he knew or ought  to have known that it was not a garage,  
and failed to disclose this to MCE. He was charged a significantly lower  premium for his 
insurance based on the misrepresentation.  In these circumstances I think  it was reasonable 
for MCE  to void the policy and retain  the premiums. 
For these reasons, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
developments
Mr S has replied  to the provisional decision. He says
He doesnt  agree he was reckless  he reasonably  believed  this was classed as a 
private brick garage due to the venue.  
MCE claim he didn't call them  in April but his phone records  show he did.
He'd be happy with the void removed from records  rather  than getting his money  
back, as having this recorded against  his name  raises his insurance premium  
dramatically  he has not had a bike since as he has been quoted £3,000  for 
insurance.
MCE has no further comments  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
I appreciate my decision is not what Mr S would want, and Ive taken into account his 
comments. But in my judgment, he was asked  a clear question  and I dont think he did take 
reasonable care when  he answered. As I explained in the provisional decision,  I looked at 
the layout of the parking  area, which is a motorcycle bay.  I dont agree that could 
reasonably be described as a garage   its very different. Its still my view that Mr S would 
have known a communal parking area is not the same thing as a garage. 
With regard to his phone calls to MCE, I cant be sure what  happened, so I have to weigh  up 
the evidence and make  a judgment, based  on the balance of probabilities. I set out in my 
provisional view what I thought was the more likely explanation. And these calls were twelve 
days before  the email  was sent, so I dont see how he could  have been  calling in response 
to the email.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint
Ref: DRN33232604Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3323260