K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that esure  Insurance Limited  gave  them incorrect  information about 
their home insurance, and the cancellation  of their policy. They  believe this led to difficulties 
in obtaining cover elsewhere.
background
Mr and Mrs H contacted  esure in January 2019 to explain that they were due to be having 
extensive renovation  work done  on their property. This meant theyd be staying in a caravan 
in their back garden, and that some  of their contents  would  be going into storage.
esure told Mr and Mrs H that theyd be able to continue their policy and that cover could be 
provided for their home and contents  in the circumstances. esure  just said to let them  know  
when the changes needed to be made.
Mr and Mrs H then contacted esure  in February  2019 to let them know the changes  were 
now required. esure explained  that the information previously given was incorrect,  and that 
the policy would need to be cancelled.  Mr and Mrs H asked if they could be given a few days 
to find alternative cover  and that was agreed   but esure still cancelled  the policy.
When Mr and Mrs H found out the cover  had been cancelled, they contacted esure  again.  
This time they were told it had been cancelled in error and that cover could remain while 
their complaint was looked into. This also turned out to be incorrect and esure  clarified that 
they simply couldnt continue cover.
Mr and Mrs H have said they had a lot of trouble finding alternative cover.  Theyve said this 
is in part because the works  had started, they didnt  have  continuous  cover  and theyd  had a 
policy cancelled.
esure told Mr and Mrs H that they didnt  need to disclose the cancellation, because it didnt 
result from anything theyd done wrong.  It was simply that esure  couldnt  continue cover, 
bearing in mind the change in circumstances. But Mr and Mrs H still think  the lack of 
continuous cover was causing them difficulty.
Mr and Mrs H believe that if theyd been given correct information  back in January  2019, 
theyd have been in a much better  position. They wouldve been able to look for other cover 
before the works had started, and feel theyd have been more  likely to find something at a 
lower cost than they ended up paying.
esure apologised to Mr and Mrs H and offered them £500 compensation for the difficulties 
caused. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt think that was enough,  so an investigator here looked  into things. They  
felt the misinformation had caused significant  difficulties for Mr and Mrs H and noted  that 
theyd said they missed out on a family  holiday,  because of their worries about leaving their 
property uninsured. The investigator  recommended a total of £850  compensation.
Mr and Mrs H accepted  that at the time,  but esure didnt. They said that Mr and Mrs H would 
always have had the inconvenience  of finding alternative cover, even if correct information 
had been provided in January 2019. esure  also said they told Mr and Mrs H they didnt need 
to disclose the cancellation, so if they continued  to do so after that it wasnt  down to them.
Ref: DRN35676732esure said they werent aware of Mr and Mrs H having holiday plans at the time, but felt the 
£500 was enough nonetheless.
The case  has been passed to me to decide  because  agreement couldnt be reached. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont believe what happened  in this case is really in dispute and we can all agree that esure  
made some errors, so its for me to consider what constitutes fair compensation. Having 
done that Im in agreement with the investigator that the compensation should  be increased. 
And I think their recommendation of £850 in total was reasonable. Ill explain why.
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs H went to significant lengths to find alternative cover  after 
their policy was cancelled.  I agree with esure  that theyd have always  had to find alternative 
cover, but I accept  it wouldve  been  far more difficult once  the work had commenced  and 
once they were declaring a cancelled policy  as that can seriously limit options available to 
prospective customers.
I acknowledge that a little later down the line esure told Mr and Mrs H they didnt need to 
declare the cancellation. But they said it always came up because they were asked if they 
had continuous  cover in place and, because they didnt, they had to explain why. So, 
although I think esure did the right thing in this respect it didnt really solve  the problems
Mr and Mrs H were faced  with, and which wouldve been avoided  if theyd been correctly 
informed in the first place.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs Hs current insurer is charging them  more  because of the 
cancellation, but if they are  despite being  told how it arose   then I think thatd be an issue  
to refer to them. Im not able to comment in this case on what  any outcome of that may be.
Mr and Mrs H have said they have  a holiday let that they sometimes  use for themselves and 
that they intended to use in February 2019.  esure says this wasnt  mentioned in any of the 
earlier conversations  but I note that it was mentioned  during  a call with the complaint 
handler, I dont think its something thats  simply been added after the fact. In view of this I 
have no reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs H have said here and I can understand why theyd  
choose not to go away  if they hadnt  yet got satisfactory cover  in place.
Mr and Mrs H have said that if theyd  known they couldnt use it, they might  have been able 
to let it out for £450. Its difficult  for me to know how likely that couldve been as it could 
depend on a lot of factors, not least finding  the demand at short  notice. I do think  the loss of 
opportunity to use it for themselves  though  is something that warrants consideration in terms 
of the total compensation.  I believe it was reasonable for them to choose  not to use it in the 
circumstances, circumstances which would  be unlikely  to have arisen but for esures  errors.
Overall, I think the recommendation of £850 made  by our investigator was reasonable. From 
the calls I listened  to I could hear how frustrating Mr and Mrs H were finding things, with all 
the misinformation they were given. And although I think  their situation would likely have 
already been stressful,  esure made  it worse  by giving them  incorrect information  not just at 
the outset but later as well, which exacerbated things  further.
Ref: DRN35676733I know Mr and Mrs H have said theyve had to renew what they consider to be an expensive 
policy. But I havent seen  anything to persuade me they couldve  found cheaper cover if 
theyd been given correct information  in January 2019. And as I said, if their current  insurer  
is charging them more   for example,  because  of the cancellation  they may wish to take it 
up with them.
my final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I require
esure Insurance Limited  to pay them  a total of £850 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 May 2020.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3567673