K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (trading as More  Th>n)  has 
declined a claim on his motor insurance  policy.  
background
Mr C says he bought  a car privately  from a seller  for £13,500 on 5 January 2019. The 
following day it was stolen  from his driveway. The police recovered  it but discovered  it was a 
cloned car - that is it had the registration plates and details  belonging to another  car. After  
being stolen by the seller it had then been  resold  to someone else. Mr C says that he carried 
out a number of checks  before buying the car which were clear. He also obtained evidence 
of the sellers driving licence, identity, address and ownership. The details he was given 
matched the information on the V5 document and the VIN located on the car. Hes unhappy 
that RSA will not pay out on his claim  saying he shouldve  been aware the V5 document  was 
a fraud.  Mr C wants RSA to pay out on the claim.
RSA said that its checks  had shown that the cars V5 registration document was a fake.  The 
document reference numbers differ, it was on the wrong  type of paper and there  were  no 
DVLA watermarks.  It said its clear  the car which Mr C purchased  is not the car he believed it 
to be and its not the car shown on the policy schedule.  As he wasnt the cars  rightful  owner 
he couldnt claim on the policy. On this basis  it declined Mr Cs claim.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. In summary he said Mr C had carried  
out reasonable checks to ensure the car wasnt stolen. And it wasnt therefore fair for RSA to 
decline the claim. It should therefore  reassess Mr Cs claim.
Mr C accepts the investigators view saying its fair.
RSA doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. It says Mr C wasnt deceived 
out of the car. The deception  took place when he was induced to hand over the money for it. 
As it was a cloned  car it was never  rightfully Mr Cs car and he had no insurable interest in it. 
He has been a victim of crime  and as such no cover was actually in place. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr C has been the victim of a sophisticated fraud  when buying  a car. 
I acknowledge RSAs  various submissions and understand its arguments that the car never  
belonged to Mr C, that he has no insurable  interest  in it and that his loss occurred when he 
handed over the money for it. And it may well be that a Court  would come to similar 
conclusions. 
Ive taken all of this into account. But what I must consider is what is fair and reasonable in 
the individual circumstances of this complaint. I need to consider  if Mr C carried out 
reasonable checks before purchasing the car and if he bought it in good  faith.
Taking everything into account  I think on balance that Mr C bought the car in good  faith and 
had no reason to believe  it wasnt rightfully his.
Ref: DRN37730162He took significant and reasonable  steps to ensure the authenticity of the car he was buying. 
He carried out an HPI check which didnt show any problem. He also checked the cars V5 
for its serial number, issue date and compared the VIN number against those showing on 
the cars  door and boot. He went to the sellers  property,  copied the sellers driving licence 
and utility bills. These  confirmed the seller as the person he was buying from at that address. 
Hes also shown evidence of getting  the cash from the bank  and got a written  receipt  from 
the seller. He was also given two sets of keys.  And the cars price  although  low wasnt 
unreasonably so.
RSA says the V5 was a fraud and was on the wrong  type of paper and didnt have a DVLA  
watermark. But its difficult  to expect Mr C to have known exactly  how this document  
shouldve been  formatted. And Mr C says one of the police officers  commented on the high 
quality of the forged V5 document he was given. Mr C clearly  reasonably  thought it was 
authentic.
Overall I cant  see what more Mr C could reasonably have done,  or been expected to do, to 
ensure he wasnt buying  a stolen  or cloned car. And I think  he bought it in good faith and 
theres nothing to suggest he wouldve  had a reason to suspect the car was cloned.
So, Im satisfied Mr C asked  RSA to insure the car to cover  the risk of loss or damage  in 
good faith and on the assumption if it was stolen he would be covered. RSA accepted the 
risk by taking his premium. As theft was an insured event  and happened  I think  it is fair and 
reasonable for RSA to reassess  Mr Cs claim on the basis the car was his and the policy was 
valid.
If in doing so RSA pays  Mr C any money  it can deduct any refund of premiums  its already 
made. But it should also pay him simple interest on any sum paid at the rate of 8% a year 
from the date it declined the claim  until payment  is made.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(trading as More  Th>n)) should reassess Mr Cs claim and pay interest* as Ive set out 
above.
*H M Revenue & Customs requires RSA to take off tax from this interest. RSA must  give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3773016