K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr T has complained that Everyday  Lending  Limited  (ELL)  provided him with a 
loan when he wasnt able to afford  it. 
background
In December 2017 ELL gave Mr T a loan for £3,000 repayable over three  years. It was a 
high interest loan with an interest rate of 149.3% APR. The total charge for the credit was 
£5,924.76, which meant  the total amount repayable by Mr T for the £3,000 he was 
borrowing, was £8,924.76. The monthly repayments were £247.91. Mr Ts net salary  was 
approximately £1,300 a month. He had several pay day loans. 
In its response to Mr Ts complaint, ELL said the loan was taken out to repay  payday  loans. 
It also explained that it carried out suitability  and affordability checks  on all loan applications. 
It went on to say that his salary was evidenced  on his bank statement.
When calculating the affordability of the loan, it said it used 34% of Mr Ts monthly  income 
as his living expenses, but a minimum of £500.  It also said that the bank statements 
between 1 November  and 30 November 2017  were reviewed, and that there were no returns 
or unauthorised charges. But there was a one-off bet for £100  and signs of various payday 
loan activity. It went on to say it had found no evidence to suggest  that any necessary 
checks hadnt been carried out. It was satisfied the loan was affordable.
Mr Ts concerns were  investigated by one of our adjudicators. He thought  ELL should have 
realised Mr T was unlikely to have been able to sustainably repay  the loan. This was 
because his bank  statements  showed he was spending a significant amount of his monthly 
income on gambling in the three  months prior to taking out the loan. 
ELL didnt  respond  to the adjudicators view. So, the case  has been passed  to me for review.  
I wrote  to the parties  on 16 February 2021 with my provisional decision. I explained why I 
was intending  to uphold Mr Ts complaint and asked  for responses  by 16 March 2021. Our 
investigator sent chaser e-mails to both parties asking for their responses.  Mr T and ELL 
didnt provide any further evidence or arguments for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As ELL and Mr T have not provided any further  evidence or arguments for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  Ive set 
out my reasoning  again below.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if ELL treated Mr T fairly  
and reasonably when it provided  him with the loan.
Ref: DRN376183321)Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that ELL had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Mr T could afford  to repay the loan he was wanting to take out. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment.
 
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but they did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of ELLs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  to be carried as part of ELLs  affordability assessment, needed to be borrower 
focussed. What I mean  by this is that the checks needed to consider whether paying the 
loan back would cause  Mr T any difficulties or have any adverse consequences for him. It 
would also need  to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being lent, the 
term of the loan and the monthly  repayments,  total charge  for the credit  and the interest rate 
being charged. This isnt an exhaustive  list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Mr T had a low income.  This would reflect  that it could be more  difficult for 
him to make  the loan repayments with a low income.  
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Mr Ts ability to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether ELL completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to repay  his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Mr T was applying  for a high-cost credit  product  which had an APR of 149.3%
Mr T was on a relatively low income
The monthly repayment was relatively  high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
Mr Ts monthly  income (around 19%); and even more so considering that he would need 
to allocate this proportion of his income towards  his loan repayments for three years
Ref: DRN37618333The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr T borrowed. He was using the loan to repay  other  debts, which suggests he was 
already struggling  with existing  credit.
Individually and taken  together,  there  are several  risk indicators here. So, I think that it was 
important for ELL to have conducted checks which gave it a thorough understanding  of 
Mr Ts financial position and to scrutinise  the information it gathered  carefully, asking follow-
up questions where necessary,  before  agreeing to lend.
ELL has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide  Mr T with the loan. And 
this seems to be on the basis  of carrying out a credit  search  and checking  his bank 
statement for the last few days of October, and the bank statement for all of November 2017. 
It says it carried  out an affordability  assessment based on this information. 
But ELL also says it made a deduction of 34% of Mr Ts monthly income  for living expenses, 
or a minimum of £500. Its not clear  to me how it has reached these figures, or why it felt it 
necessary or appropriate to apply what appears to be a standard deduction from Mr Ts 
income for living expenses. And it hasnt explained  why this was a more reliable and 
borrower focussed assessment of Mr Ts living expenses, than scrutinising the information  it 
did collect about Mr T.
This is particularly puzzling when it has said it did review Mr Ts bank statements to evidence 
his income. And it seems to me that it would have  been more  logical to have made an actual 
assessment of Mr Ts income and expenses, taking into account  the information  it did have, 
rather than making assumptions  which werent  necessarily accurate,  appropriate or borrower 
focussed. 
If it had done that, I think it would  have realised that Mr Ts finances were  not in a good 
position. I say this because if it had carried out a simple assessment of his November 2017 
bank statement, it would  have seen that Mr T had more money going out of his account  than 
was going in. In the copies of the November bank statement supplied to the service  and 
ELL, there was evidence  of payday loan payments  going out and payday loan funds being 
credited to the account. There was also evidence of gambling.
Based on its assessment, ELL says that it thought Mr Ts loan was affordable  for him as he 
had surplus income  of just over £100  a month,  after the loan repayments for this loan were 
taken into account;  together with the deduction for living expenses that it had allowed for. 
But it hasnt  explained  why it believes the information it reviewed supports that assessment 
and decision.  
Taking into account what Ive summarised above,  I cant see objectively how on even a 
cursory analysis of the copy of Mr Ts bank statement it had, that ELL could have concluded 
that the loan was affordable for him. 
And if it had delved  a little deeper into the information it had, it should have realised that the 
picture was even bleaker. I say this because  the direct debits and standing orders Mr T had 
every month were  in excess  of £500 a month. And this doesnt take into account any other 
expenses for food and entertainment which are clearly identifiable on his statement. On top 
of this Mr T made payments for payday  loans in excess of £600 that month.   
From what  Ive seen therefore, I dont  think ELLs  checks were  reasonable or proportionate 
in this case. And Im not persuaded  that the loan was affordable for him. I say this because  
Ref: DRN37618334as Ive set out above, I think even the information  ELL obtained from Mr T posed  real 
questions about  his ability to sustainably repay the loan.  
At the very least,  the information ELL had should  have  put it on notice to make further 
enquiries about Mr Ts finances. In the first instance,  the purpose of the loan (to consolidate 
pay day loans) should in my opinion have flagged to ELL that Mr T might well already be in 
an unsustainable debt position and therefore may well have some  difficulties in repaying the 
loan. His background of having taken out pay day loans, which ELL recorded  being told by 
Mr T that these had spiralled;  suggests to me that he was already having difficulties in 
managing his finances when he sought a loan from ELL.
Secondly, ELL only seems to have assessed  Mr Ts financial position based on his bank 
statement from the end of October  to the end of November 2017 and his credit  file. 
Notwithstanding the difficulties that I think that bank  statement reveals,  there is a general  risk 
that a single month may not have been representative of Mr Ts routine financial position.
And given  the history  of pay day borrowing, his relatively low income and evidence of 
gambling on the bank statement it did have, I think all this information should either have 
prompted ELL to decline  the application or  at least  have alerted it to make further 
enquiries of Mr Ts finances  and assess the affordability of the loan for him. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
I think ELL should have  ensured that the scope and extent of its checks  were adapted to the 
circumstances of Mr Ts application. This was a high cost loan being taken out by an 
individual with a low income. And the repayments  would  form a significant proportion  of his 
monthly outgoings for 36 months. Given the information contained on the bank statement 
that ELL was in possession of, further  checks would need to establish that his position was 
generally much better than that.
So, we have  also asked  Mr T for additional  information about his finances to better 
understand his circumstances and the potential impact on him of taking out this loan. He has 
provided us with copies of his bank statements for October,  November and December 2017.  
These statements  show that in October 2017,  Mr T had gambling losses of around £529. In 
November he had a gambling loss of £900 and in December before the loan was taken out, 
a gambling loss of £580. 
So even if ELL had carried out these  additional checks on Mr Ts finances  in this way, it 
would have confirmed  that the picture emerging from Mr Ts November statement, appears  
to have been part of a broader pattern. 
He had used a significant amount of his income  on gambling over the previous 3 months  
prior to taking out the loan,  and it seems to me that this habit was placing a significant  
pressure on Mr Ts wider  position which was relevant  to ELLs affordability assessment. And 
he also appears to have been in a cycle of taking out pay day loans, which  should  also have 
alerted ELL to question whether the loan was affordable for him.
I dont intend to make a finding about  whether  the extent of Mr Ts gambling (either in 
absolute terms or as a proportion of his income) had become a habit or addiction  which, in 
and of itself, made it irresponsible for ELL to have lent to him. Whilst that is clearly a risk, I 
believe a range of other indicators that ELL saw (or ought to have seen) that Ive outlined 
Ref: DRN37618335above, should have made it realise that it was unlikely Mr T would have been able to repay  
his loan, and that it wasnt  appropriate to lend to him. 
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr T to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to him. So, I think Mr T has lost out and ELL should put 
things right for him. ELL should: 
a) Remove  all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  Any payments 
made by Mr T should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mr T 
has made total more  than the amount he was originally lent, then any surplus should be 
treated as overpayments  and refunded  to him with 8% simple interest* calculated on any 
overpayments made,  from the date they were paid by Mr T to the date the complaint is 
settled.
b) If there is still an outstanding balance, then ELL should agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr T, bearing in mind the need  to treat him positively and sympathetically in those 
discussions; and taking into account his current ability to repay  the loan from his present 
disposable income. 
c) Remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ts credit file as a result of this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should  give Mr T 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Mr Ts complaint about 
Everyday Lending  Limited. It needs  to calculate  and pay Mr T compensation using the 
methodology Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761833