K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Tesco Underwriting Limited handled  a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy. In particular, they say they trusted Tesco  when it said 
the claim wouldnt affect their premiums.
background
Mr and Mrs Ws garden has suffered numerous problems with water build up since around  
1998, in their view these related to issues with the local water company.
In July 2013, Mr and Mrs Ws MP wrote to Tesco to ask if it could help and this led to a claim 
being looked into. The claim was initially declined by Tesco  on the basis that it wasnt a one-
off insured event.
However, in September 2013, Tesco reversed  this decision, paying Mr and Mrs W £3,433. 
Mr and Mrs W say this was lower  than the amount they felt was due. But they said they 
accepted it at the time on the basis that Tesco told them the claim wouldnt increase their 
premiums.
Mr and Mrs Ws premium the following renewal rose from £383.83 to £464.80, yet they dont 
appear to have complained until some years later about this, as their premiums continued to 
rise, and reached  £801.33 in 2017.  At that point they decided  to leave Tesco.
Mr and Mrs W say if theyd known their premiums were going to rise, theyd have either 
pushed for a greater  settlement amount or shopped around earlier.
Tesco said it hadnt taken  the claim into account  to begin with but in 2017 its claims and 
customer service  departments realised their details didnt match up  thats why there was a 
significant rise then,  as it affected the no claims discount. Tesco also said it paid the claim as 
a goodwill gesture and that Mr and Mrs W werent  entitled to anything.
An investigator here looked into the matter, and found  that Tesco had treated Mr and Mrs W 
fairly. They said Tesco appeared to have covered the items Mr and Mrs W asked them  to, 
but for two amounts  which  they considered to be preventative. The investigator suggested 
Mr and Mrs W may wish to send in evidence of further losses  for consideration.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  think that was fair and provided  a list of items they felt were also 
damaged by the water. They also provided  some other information relating to all of the 
problems theyve been having.
Neither Tesco nor the investigator felt this meant anything further was payable.  Because  of 
this Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco has said Mr and Mrs Ws claim should  not have been paid, so the reversal of this 
decision was wrong. Because  of this, Ive looked at whether  Tescos  position is correct.
Ref: DRN39549342Mr and Mrs Ws policy includes  cover  for:
Water or oil escaping from any fixed  domestic  water or heating installation,  including 
underground drains and pipes or from any domestic appliance.
But, the policy also says whats not covered, and that includes:
Loss or damage that happens  gradually  over a period of time
Ive also thought about whether the claim could be covered under flood, as theres a 
suggestion Tesco thought that might be the case at some point. But the flood cover excludes 
loss or damage that doesnt arise  from one identifiable event which  directly  and immediately 
caused the loss. I dont  believe  any single  event was identified.
And, given  this is a problem Mr and Mrs W had been suffering for many  years during which 
they had extensive correspondence with the local council, the water  company and their MP  
I think Tesco could have  fairly declined the claim.  I believe it was agreed to on a goodwill 
basis. In that respect itd be difficult for me to say the payment wasnt  enough when it might 
not have been paid at all.
That said,  Ive still looked at the amount Tesco paid and the advice that Mr and Mrs W say 
they received  about the premium.
As part of the claim Tesco asked  Mr and Mrs W to provide  a list of what they were  claiming  
for. Mr and Mrs W emailed a list to Tesco, totalling  £1,313, and comprising of items in the 
two sheds and damage to the sheds themselves. Mr and Mrs W estimated the prices of the 
items (although some they appeared not to be able to put a value on). And they said the total 
was more than they had anticipated.
Included within the settlement  payment  to Mr and Mrs W was the full £1,313. I dont think  
this is unfair.  I acknowledge that its possible  Mr and Mrs W submitted a trimmed down list, 
based on advice  they say was given about  the premium  but I cant  find any record of such  
advice being given.
Mr and Mrs W then sent Tesco details of work  quoted by their builder. This comprised:
£500 to Lawn  and Lay sleeper inc labour 
£300 for drainage  inc labour
£2100 for slabbing top and bottom of Garden inc Slabs, membrain,  Sand, Cement and 
Millwaste
Tesco paid the sum of £2,100 but didnt believe the other  sums  to be payable, because it 
was deemed to be preventative  something  which isnt covered by the policy. Its difficult  for 
me to know  whether the £500 and £300  figures related to the preventative work, although
Mr and Mrs W dont  appear to have challenged the investigators conclusion that they were. 
In any event, I cant ask Tesco to pay for those if I dont think  the claim needed to be paid.
Based on what Ive seen,  I cant conclude that Mr and Mrs W accepted  a reduced settlement 
in exchange for the claim not being rated  on for future premiums. Ive read Tescos notes 
and emails from the time (including emails  received  from Mr and Mrs W) and could find no 
evidence of such a discussion. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel very strongly about this but 
Ref: DRN39549343without more persuasive evidence I dont feel I can uphold their complaint on this point  
based on their testimony alone.
I agree  though that if Mr and Mrs W had been  told they could  take a lower payment in 
exchange for cheaper premiums then that wouldve been incorrect,  because even small 
claims are routinely considered when setting premiums.
Mr and Mrs W also told me they were unhappy with the suggestion that they move  their 
belongings into the house, to protect  them from any further damage. I understand why that 
may be impractical, but I dont think it was an unsuitable suggestion. And I note that its a 
requirement of the policy to take reasonable steps  to avoid or limit damage.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco treated Mr and Mrs W fairly. Thats not to say I dont 
acknowledge what a difficult  time this mustve  been  for them  over the years. Its just that I 
dont think Tesco did anything wrong,  and instead  seem to have agreed  to settle some of the 
claim as a goodwill  gesture.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2020.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3954934