K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy  was taken 
out when Mr H applied  for a loan to pay for a wedding. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. I explain why below.
Lloyds had to make Mr H aware the policy was optional. Lloyds has provided  the loan 
agreement from the sale. On the loan agreement there is a section titled Optional Loan 
Protection and Yes and No boxes in the section to indicate  if cover is required. The yes 
box has been selected. And Mr H signed this form to get the loan. So, I think  its more  likely 
than not Mr H would have been  aware he had a choice about buying the PPI policy and that 
he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it needed  to check  that it was right for him. I think it 
was. Mr H was eligible for the policy and was employed. The main exclusions around  
employment and pre existing medical conditions didnt apply to him. 
Mr H has said that he had good sick pay from his employer, but the policy provided cover, in 
addition, to any employer  benefits Mr H had. And, potentially, it wouldve paid out for a lot 
longer than Mr Hs sick pay would have paid him at his full rate of pay. And it would have 
reduced his reliance on any help his family would have been able to provide and would have 
saved him selling his home to realise the equity in his property.  So, I think  the policy was 
suitable for Mr Hs circumstances even taking into account his existing means.   
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mr H would still have  bought it. Given how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mr H made  a successful  claim he couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than he paid for it. 
Ref: DRN30457752Mr H would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if he cancelled  the policy 
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr H. But I havent seen anything to suggest he thought 
hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr H or that he had 
a need to keep costs  down.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information wouldve  stopped him from buying  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  about  Lloyds Bank  Plc.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3045775