K820x#14complaint
Ms F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold her a fee-paying Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) on 20 November  2009.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that the URCA had been 
mis-sold. Ms F disagreed with this and asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to decide what to do about  Ms Fs complaint. And having done so, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold. I will explain  why.
Ms F initially raised  her complaint with Halifax using a claims management company  which  
raised a large  number  of complaint points. But Ms F has referred  her complaint to our 
service herself. And Ms F has told us that her complaint is essentially that the URCA was 
mis-sold because Halifax didnt explain what all the benefits were. Ms F also says Halifax  
was aware she had learning  difficulties, alongside  other medical conditions, so says Halifax  
shouldnt have sold her the URCA without the presence of a carer.
Looking at Ms Fs account history, I can see she had a fee-free account for many  years 
before her account  was upgraded to the URCA.  I can also see she had an overdraft on her 
account before her account was upgraded as well. And Ms F has not said anything that 
makes me think she was pressured into agreeing  to it or was taken advantage of by being 
misled into thinking  she had to have it. So I think Ms F was aware that the URCA was an 
optional product and that she didnt have to agree to it if she didnt want it.
Ms Fs says she has learning  difficulties and says that she didnt have  a carer with her at the 
time. So I have carefully considered to what extent  Ms F understood what she was agreeing  
to and whether  Halifax was unreasonable to have sold the URCA to Ms F in the way that it 
did.
Based on what Ms F and Halifax have said, it appears that Halifax discussed some, but not 
necessarily all, of the account benefits with Ms F, and she agreed to it. So I think  the account 
was sold without Halifax making a recommendation to Ms F. This means  Halifax didnt have 
to check if it was right for her. But it did have  to give Ms F enough information to understand 
what she was agreeing to.
Ms F says that she wasnt told about  all of the account benefits, but has said she was aware 
of the monthly  fee for the account.  So this suggests that at least some  of the benefits and 
the monthly fee were discussed with her and she understood that she was agreeing to them. 
Ms F went on to make claims  on the mobile  phone  insurance that came with the account. 
So, even though Ms F didnt have a carer  present,  I think  Ms F was given enough  
information and had enough understanding to know that she had mobile phone insurance  
provided by her account and how to use it.  
Ref: DRN37748642Shortly after Ms F agreed to the URCA, Halifax changed how it charged customers to use 
their overdrafts. Halifax went from charging  interest when an overdraft  was used, to charging 
a daily usage  fee of £1 (for overdrafts  up to £2,500). The URCA  included  a benefit  that 
meant that, from December 2009,  Ms F wouldnt have to pay the £1 daily fee, providing  she 
used the overdraft on her account up to £350.  So essentially, as the account cost £12.50 a 
month, itd work out cheaper to have the URCA if she was overdrawn for 13 days or more  
each month, then if she kept her fee-free account and paid the £1 daily overdraft usage fee 
instead. 
Looking at Ms Fs statements, I can see that in the months prior to the upgrade, her account 
was nearly always overdrawn. So I think one of the reasons why Halifax  sold the URCA to 
Ms F mayve been so that she would  pay less to use her overdraft, once the changes  to the 
overdraft charges came into effect.
Ms F says she wasnt told about all of the benefits.  I think its possible that she was told 
about all of the account benefits, but now cant remember  Halifax doing so  which  would be 
understandable as it was sold a long time ago. After all, Halifax  was selling the account so it 
likely wouldve made it seem  attractive to Ms F by explaining all the benefits that it came 
with. 
But even if Halifax didnt  explain all of the benefits  it came with, I think  Ms F wouldve still 
agreed to it had Halifax done  so. I say this because the account  was sold as a package, so 
Ms F couldnt pick and choose what it came  with. And Ms F was happy  to agree to the 
URCA, knowing there was a fee for the benefits  that were  discussed. So I dont think more 
information about benefits Ms F didnt want or intend  to use wouldve put her off agreeing  to 
it. As Ive set out above,  I can see that she did use and benefit from at least two of the 
accounts main features.
So having  taken everything into account,  Im not persuaded that the URCA was mis-sold to 
Ms F. And I dont  think Halifax was unreasonable to have sold the URCA to Ms F in the way 
that it did, given  that she understood  that the URCA came with some  benefits in return for a 
monthly fee and was able to make use of some of the benefits it provided. Because  of this I 
dont think that Halifax should refund Ms F the URCA fees.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3774864