K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that in 2013  he received inappropriate advice from deVere and 
Partners (UK) Limited (referred to from now on as deVere)  to transfer  the value of his 
deferred pension  benefits in a former  employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to 
a Personal Pension  Plan (PPP)  and then to a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr G has also complained about  various administrative errors and delays that 
occurred when transferring from the PPP to the SIPP.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 26 April 2019. A 
copy of this document is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I concluded that this complaint  should  not be upheld for the 
reasons that I set out. I attach a copy of my provisional decision, which forms part of my final 
decision. 
deVere accepted my provisional decision and made no further submissions. Mr G did not 
make any further submissions to the Financial Ombudsman Service despite being  given the 
opportunity to do so.
Having reviewed the submissions on the complaint afresh I have reached  the same  
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN36448222my final decision
I reject the main part of this complaint against deVere  and Partners  (UK) Limited about the 
advice to transfer out of the OPS for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision.
I consider that the amount offered to Mr G by deVere and Partners  (UK) Limited of
£377.20 in respect  of the administration issues is fair and reasonable and I make no 
additional award.
I note that deVere  has acknowledged that its service to Mr G has not been up to its 
standards and has agreed to waive  the fees it would have charged on the SIPP for the 
relevant periods. These  were for the periods from 31 December 2013 to 1 October  2014  
and then for the period from October  2015 to December 2016. I consider that this is a fair 
and reasonable offer and I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Adrian Hudson  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36448223Copy of Provisional  Decision dated 26 April 2019
complaint
Mr G has complained that in 2013 he received  inappropriate advice from deVere and Partners (UK) 
Limited (referred to from now on as deVere) to transfer the value of his deferred pension benefits in 
a former  employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS)  to a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) and 
then to a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr G has also complained  about  various  administrative errors and delays  that occurred when 
transferring from the PPP to the SIPP.
background
The fact find that Mr G signed on 25 June 2013 showed  that:
 He was 51, divorced and had two non-dependent sons.  He was self-employed earning 
around £50,000 per annum. He was aiming to retire at age 55.
 His house was valued  at £130,000 with an outstanding  mortgage of £40,000.
 He had a property in Europe worth  £40,000 with no mortgage. And two properties in the 
USA which were  in the process of being sold for £24,000.
 He held approximately £105,800  in various other savings and investments.
 He held deferred pension  benefits  in an OPS in respect of over 11 years  service.
 The transfer value of deferred benefits was about £259,000 (£300,000 with an 
enhancement).
The Report  & Recommendations Pension Transfer Options report  dated  29 August 2013 set out on 
pages 9 and 10, that in order to match the value  of the OPS benefits a rate of investment return of 
10.2% per annum  for age 60 and 18.24% for age 55 would be required.  However,  based upon  his 
responses to its questionnaire,  the adjusted critical yield figure was now 10.5%.
The report then set out on page  13 that:
Based on the Critical Yield required, we would therefore not recommend that  you transfer your benefits 
to a personal pension arrangement  based on the mathematical results of the Transfer  Value Analysis 
System (TVAS)  report. Following the regulatory  guidelines our conclusion is primarily based on the provision 
of pension  benefits for your  retirement.
(The text highlighted was in bold in the report from deVere.)  The report  went on to say a bit later that:
The Critical Yield  is the main decider on whether to transfer final salary scheme  benefits to a personal 
arrangement but there can be other factors that  need to be considered based  on a clients  circumstances. In 
your instance,  the potential  death benefits that  would  be available if you were to transfer make  a compelling 
argument to transfer your benefits as your  beneficiaries  would benefit  financially, even  though this would not 
be the case with your income, which is a priority for you as stated  in previous conversations. However,  the 
recommendation would still be not to transfer your benefits out of the XXXX Pension Scheme as you would be 
giving up guaranteed benefits  and if you were to transfer on the basis of achieving  better death  benefits, once 
the decision has been made this cannot be reversed.
As you are a financially sound individual due to your background within Financial Services  you can make 
the decision  to transfer your final salary  benefits into a personal  arrangement as you understand how the 
final salary  pension with XXXX works and that  you would lose significant benefits  if you were to die and not 
Ref: DRN36448224leave anything to your  sons, which  is a very  high priority for you.
On 1 September 2013 Mr G received a report from a firm of independent financial advisers  which 
had been appointed by the trustees to advise the members about the option to transfer out of the 
final salary  scheme with an enhanced transfer value.  Mr G subsequently transferred out of the 
OPS to the PPP having taken advice from the other firm.
Shortly after this the PPP was then subsequently transferred to a SIPP  on the advice  of 
deVere.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have, in particular, considered whether  de Vere  was the business  
that was responsible  for the advice to transfer out of the company pension scheme.
Mr G had approached deVere for advice  as to what to do with the value  of his deferred benefits and 
the fact that there  was a transfer  enhancement if the transfer went ahead  at that time.
The initial statement made by deVere was that based  on the critical yield analysis its advice would 
be not to transfer. However deVere then stated that there would be a significant loss in the event  
that Mr G died early as he was single  and no spouses pension would be payable. Mr G did have 
two non-dependent sons.
deVere has argued that its advice was not to transfer as the critical yield was too high.
This meant  that on the basis set down by the regulator the transfer value offered by the OPS was too 
low. In the circumstances the advice  should have been  do not transfer the value  of the OPS benefits  
and this is what deVere said.
If Mr G was worried about the level of benefits payable  on his death to his two sons he could  have 
taken out a term assurance policy to provide temporary life cover if this was needed.
The pension  from the OPS  represented the majority of Mr Gs pension provision and with the low 
attitude to risk that he was recorded as having the advice  from deVere was that he
should not transfer.  This is what it said to Mr G. After  this advice not to transfer from deVere, Mr G 
then arranged  the transfer out of the OPS using the firm of advisers which had been appointed by 
the employer.
The other  firm of advisers produced  a detailed report for Mr G on 1 September 2013.
Mr G signed and accepted the advice from the other IFA. On the basis that deVeres advice not to 
transfer appears to have  been suitable advice  and Mr G didnt follow deVeres advice, I dont think 
this part of his complaint should succeed.
administration issues
Mr G has complained that the funds received between October 2013 and December
2013 were  not invested  until March 2014. deVere said that this was because  it was 
anticipating further monies would be received (which were actually received, on 31 
December 2013).
deVere also said that the delay  of investment was discussed at that time as was the difficulty  
with calculating any loss that may have arisen. It was agreed that its servicing  fees would  be 
waived on any monies that had remained  out of the market and such fees continued  to be 
Ref: DRN36448225waived after the assets had been purchased  for another  7 months to October  2014. Mr G 
accepted this offer. In my opinion this is a fair offer in the circumstances of this issue.
Mr G has also complained  that deVere did not act upon his instructions to invest monies 
again in 2016. However, deVere has said that its recommendation was to invest the 
capital from the disinvestment  in one product into a fund with a new provider. This was 
the money which it thought Mr G believed  has been out of the market.
deVere had recommended  that Mr G invest £63,000 into this fund, and then set out a 
calculation which showed a notional loss of £277.20.  It offered Mr G that amount together with 
a further  amount of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  This offer in my opinion 
was fair and reasonable  and was accepted by Mr G. I therefore make  no further award.
Mr G has also complained  that deVere had recently accepted that another  transfer payment was 
around £17,500 short.  However,  deVere has told the Financial Ombudsman  Service that the full 
transfer value had since been  received  and that it had no choice but to accept the partial payment  
as Mr G had not returned  the paperwork  for the improved transfer value. This issue therefore  also 
appears to have been resolved.
my provisional  decision
I am minded to reject the main part of this complaint against deVere and Partners (UK)
Limited about  the advice to transfer  out of the OPS for the reasons set out above.
As I consider that the amount offered to Mr G by deVere and Partners (UK) Limited of
£377.20 in respect of the administration issues is fair and reasonable and I make no additional 
award.
I note that deVere has acknowledged that its service to Mr G has not been up to its standards  and 
has agreed to waive the fees it would  have  charged on the SIPP for the relevant  periods.  These were 
for the periods from 31 December 2013 to 1 October 2014 and then for the period from October  2015 
to December  2016. I consider that this is a fair and reasonable offer and I make  no further award.
Adrian Hudson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3644822