K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains National Westminster Bank  Plc should not have allowed her to take out a 
loan.
Mrs S is helped  in her complaint by her daughter  Ms P  but for ease,  I will refer to all 
submissions as if made by Mrs S.
background
In 2018, NatWest received an application  for a loan which  was made  online.   It was made in 
the name of Mrs S and all relevant information had been completed in her name  including 
details of an income. The purpose  of the loan was said to be for home improvements.
The loan was not approved immediately.  It was sent to an underwriter who looked  into the 
application in more detail.
NatWest said it relied upon the details submitted with the application  and a credit search and 
also looked into any other lending which Mrs S held with it and its banking  group in general.
In May 2018, the money was paid into an account in the sole name of Mrs S.  Direct debits 
for repayments were  set up from the same  account and shortly after the money was paid in, 
it was withdrawn.  Regular payments were  then made for a few months until September 
2018.  The significance  of this date is that Mrs S was unfortunately widowed at this time.
Mrs Ss daughter then complained about the loan to NatWest.   The complaint appeared to 
be about the affordability aspect of the loan  Mrs S saying that NatWest  had not carried  out 
proper checks.   But when NatWest did not uphold the complaint, Mrs S asked this service to 
consider her complaint.
When our investigator looked  into matters,  it seemed there was now a second  limb to the 
complaint  and this was that Mrs S could not remember  having taken out the loan.  The 
suggestion was that her husband may have made  the application  and Mrs S signed the 
agreement without knowing  or checking what she was signing.
Either way, our investigator did not think he could ask NatWest to do anymore.  With regards 
the loan application being made without Mrs Ss knowledge, he said he had considered the 
loan agreement and Mrs Ss signature.  This was compared to her sample signature held 
with NatWest and it matched.  In any event, if Mrs S had signed the documents  without  
querying what she was signing, it wouldnt be fair to hold NatWest liable for the loan.
In relation to affordability, he thought NatWest had done enough to ensure the loan was 
affordable.
Mrs S didnt agree.  She didnt say why  but simply asked that an ombudsman  consider her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I do not 
intend to uphold this complaint.  My reasons are for do so are very much  the same  reasons 
as the investigator.
Ref: DRN34321432I dont think Mrs S could have forgotten that she had applied for this loan.  I think  if she had, 
that would  have been the first thing  she complained  to NatWest about.  
I am satisfied she signed the agreement and that she knew  the monthly payments from her 
account were going towards the repayment  of this loan.  I am also satisfied, to the required 
level, that the signature on the application  matches Mrs Ss.
So, turning  to the affordability aspect. NatWest  has said it carried  out the necessary checks.  
It looked at Mrs Ss credit file and other lending she may have had.  Mrs  S declared  she had 
an income of over £2000  in the application  but I think one look at her bank statements and 
NatWest would have  seen no evidence of that.  It should also have been aware of a 
relatively substantial  mortgage. So, I think it could have carried  out more  checks  than it did 
considering the size of the loan and the monthly repayments.
That said,  had it looked at her statements, I need to decide whether its lending decision 
might have been any different.  And I dont think it would.  Whilst not on a weekly  basis, Mrs 
S had relatively large payments made  into and out of her account  so I think  NatWest would 
have still concluded  she may have been  able to afford  the loan.
So, for those reasons,  I dont think NatWest has done anything  wrong  here and so I wont  be 
asking that it does anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3432143