K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy and wouldnt let her cancel it when she asked to.
background
In 1991 Mrs B bought PPI at the same time as she applied for a mortgage. The policy  gave 
her protection against accident,  sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for 
it. She says she later tried to cancel it but branch  staff wouldnt let her.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint  was passed 
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is contradictory  or 
incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision  on the balance of probabilities   
in other  words, on what I consider is most likely  given the available evidence and what  we 
know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. Halifax cant provide Mrs Bs policy  document 
so Ive relied on one from the nearest date available.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she was led to believe the PPI was compulsory. I cant  know what  was said in 
the meeting and Halifax cant provide  all of Mrs Bs paperwork from the time of the sale. 
Thats not unreasonable given how long ago it was. Ive looked at the letter dated February 
1991 that the bank sent Mrs B after she completed  her mortgage application. Amongst other  
things, this asked  her to complete and return a standing order  authority for the PPI. But I 
dont think anything in that letter could reasonably have led Mrs B to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. Ive thought  carefully about Mrs Bs comments  but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect  what  she recalls.  Overall, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly  conclude Halifax didnt make Mrs B aware the PPI 
was optional and she didnt agree to take it.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs B. I know she feels it wasnt  suitable  for her but I think 
it seems to have been right for her based on what Ive seen. Mrs B was entitled  to 12 
months sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits for up to 
24 months for all accident and sickness claims.  And Mrs B couldve made repeated  claims 
on the policy giving her long term cover  for her mortgage. 
It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mrs B says her employer didnt make 
compulsory redundancies but I havent seen any evidence that was guaranteed.
 
Ref: DRN37440852Mrs B says her family would have helped but thats  not suitable alternative  protection. Again, 
its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  Mrs B had a second  job at the 
time she took out PPI but given what shes told us about it I dont think  this meant the cover  
wasnt right for her. I say this as she could have made a successful unemployment claim if 
she lost her main job as long as her second  job was less than 16 hours a week.  And it 
seems it was. Mrs B was borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on her 
home. Given how serious the effects of not keeping up with mortgage  repayments could 
have been I think  the PPI would have been useful  for her if she were sick, had an accident  or 
lost her job.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs B all the information she needed before she decided to 
buy PPI. I dont know what the cost was made  clear but the PPI was competitively  priced  
and apparently affordable. And Mrs B doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or limitations  (such  as those affecting people  with pre-existing medical 
conditions or on certain types of employment contract). Overall, I dont think better  
information wouldve  changed her decision.
Mrs B also says she tried to cancel the policy a number of times in her branch but the 
advisers wouldnt allow her to. She hasnt been able to provide any supporting  evidence  and 
the bank has been unable  to investigate her claims further without more information. The 
policy was cancelled in 1994. And whilst  I accept  its possible Mrs B tried to cancel her policy 
before this date,  I have  to decide what I think is most likely based on the available evidence.  
Without stronger  evidence I cant fairly conclude the bank had previously refused to carry out 
her instructions.
When Mrs B contacted this service  she also raised  a number of customer  service issues 
about how Halifax handled her PPI complaint. Our adjudicator raised  these with the bank 
and shared its response with Mrs B. As the adjudicator explained, Mrs B should  contact 
Halifax if she remains unhappy  and wants  to make a customer service  compliant. She can of 
course bring  the complaint  to us if she is dissatisfied with the banks response.
It follows I dont think Mrs B has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale,  or the 
cancellation of the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3744085