K820x#14complaint
Mr P, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that he was mis-
sold a Living Assurance policy that provided  life and critical illness  cover  by a predecessor  
of Phoenix Life Limited.
background
The policy was sold in 1989 and surrendered a few years later in 1992. As such, the 
documentation from the time is limited  and not particularly clear. 
Phoenix Life nevertheless  felt the fact find showed  that Mr P wanted to protect  his family by 
taking out critical illness  cover.  It said that in early  1989 critical illness  cover  was only 
available in conjunction with life cover  with a whole of life or endowment policy.  As Mr P was 
married at the time with a young family  Phoenix Life was satisfied that hed had a need for 
the policy. So it didnt  uphold the complaint.
The CMC referred the matter to this service  but our adjudicator reached the same 
conclusion as Phoenix Life and for broadly the same reasons. She noted that the fact find 
indicated Mr P didnt have any existing life cover, so even  if his priority had been critical 
illness cover  it wasnt  unreasonable for him to be sold a policy that also included life cover,  
particular as that was all that was available at the time.
The CMC didnt accept  this and highlighted that a similar complaint relating to Mr Ps wife 
had been upheld.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  information is available, as the adjudicator noted, it appears that Mr Ps 
circumstances were  such that he had a reasonable requirement for critical illness  cover and 
life cover.  So, it doesnt seem that that the adviser acted incorrectly  in selling a policy that 
provided both. 
The CMCs  argument  for the policy having  been  mis-sold appears to be driven primarily by a 
comparison with the complaint made  by Mr Ps wife  and also some  ambiguity over the 
dates of completion of the fact find and the application form. 
The documentation  is, as noted, poor so the latter point is not really  conclusive. So, on that 
basis and the fact that in any event each complaint has to be considered on its own merits, I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence to support a finding that the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN38448222Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3844822