K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Harvey  & Thompson Limited  (H&T)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan H&T provided to Mr R in January 2018.  The 
loan was for £500 and repayable over 20 months.  The monthly repayments were  for £79.74.  
Mr Rs loan is currently outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint  about the loan being irresponsibly lent to him. 
They explained H&T had done proportionate  checks at the time. But they did think H&T 
should have done more  when it became  evident that Mr R was having problems managing 
his money. So, they ask H&T to rework Mr Rs loan by charging interest for the first three  
months only (until April 2018) and then freezing the interest. They also asked H&T to set up 
a payment plan for Mr R to repay the principal amount and the three  months worth of 
interest.
H&T didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans review. It felt that if the adjudicator agreed 
the loan wasnt  mis-sold,  why was it being  asked  to remove interest.  
So, the complaint has come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Its not my role to punish or fine businesses. In order to make an award  against  a business, I 
need to be satisfied that the business did something  wrong  and it has  caused the consumer 
a financial loss or some degree of trouble and upset  as a result.
As a starting point,  even in circumstances where I dont think the lender shouldve  given the 
initial loan,  I would generally expect a consumer  to repay the money borrowed. This is 
because the consumer has had the benefit  of this money. So typically, I wouldnt say the 
business needed to write  off the outstanding  balance of the loan.
That said;  lenders  should treat customers experiencing  financial  difficulties  in a positive and 
sympathetic way. I think when Mr Rs first payment was returned unpaid, H&T ought  to have 
been concerned  that Mr R was struggling so early in the lending relationship. Especially 
when the checks  H&T had performed showed  the loan was affordable. But I think when Mr R 
then didnt make his second or third monthly repayment, H&T should have contacted him to 
find out what was happening. I havent  been shown any evidence  that it did this. In fact, Mr R 
didnt make a payment  until June 2018   some five months after he had received the loan. I 
can see H&T continued to charge interest, but Ive not seen anything to show H&T tried to 
see why Mr R wasnt making the repayments.  On this basis, I agree that H&T should remove  
all interest and charges  associated with the loan from May 2018  onwards. As I think this was 
when H&T should  have reasonably known something wasnt right and it was most likely     
Mr R was suffering financial difficulties. 
Ref: DRN37106072H&T has said Mr R didnt tell it he was suffering from any difficulties  and whilst it would 
have been prudent of Mr R to do this, I dont  think this means  H&T shouldnt  take 
responsibility for its inaction  during  this time.
putting things right
To put things right for Mr R, H&T should remove all interest and charges  paid on the loan 
from May 2018 onwards.
For the outstanding balance remaining, H&T should  try and work together to come  to a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr R in order to repay what is owed. But Id remind 
H&T of its obligation  to treat Mr R fairly  and sympathetically. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and direct Harvey & 
Thompson Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3710607