K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited lent irresponsibly when it increased  his credit 
card limit in May 2015 and May 2016.  
background
Mr K had a credit  card with Vanquis. In May 2015  Vanquis contacted  Mr K and said it was 
going to increase his credit limit from £1,000  to £1,750. A year later Vanquis contacted Mr K 
again to say it was increasing his credit limit to £2,250. Vanquis says it completed thorough 
affordability checks each  time before it took the decision to increase Mr Ks credit limit and 
gave him 30 days notice that his limit was going  to increase. 
In December 2016 Mr K contacted Vanquis to explain  hed been  made  redundant a few 
months earlier and was going through  some financial difficulties.  The account was put on 
hold under a plan Mr K had with Vanquis  from January 2017 until April 2017. In May 2017  
Vanquis agreed to reduce the interest  rate to 1.99%  and accept three payments of £50 a 
month. Vanquis later agreed a payment plan with Mr K. 
In July 2018 Mr K complained that Vanquis  had lent irresponsibly when it approved  his credit 
card and later increased the credit limit. Vanquis responded on 21 September 2018  but 
didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly.  Vanquis  said the application and following credit limit 
increases had all met its lending criteria. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what  had happened.  
She said that part of Mr Ks complaint  had been referred to us too late so we couldnt  look at 
Vanquis initial decision to lend or any credit  limit increases before 2015, when the limit went  
up to £1,750. The investigator  didnt  agree  that the credit limit increase from £1,000 to 
£1,750 in May 2015 or the following increase from £1,750 to £2,250  in May 2016 were 
irresponsible so didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K asked to appeal. 
In a previous decision I set out why we cant look at the credit card application or earlier 
credit limit increases. As Mr K feels the credit limit increases from May 2015 onwards were  
irresponsible and didnt  agree with the investigator  Ive been passed  his complaint to make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above,  in this decision Im looking at two credit limit increases. The first was in 
May 2015 when  Mr Ks credit limit went from £1,000 to £1,750.  The second was in May 2016 
when Mr Ks credit limit went  up to £2,250.  Mr K says that Vanquis should have been aware 
his credit limit increases werent  affordable because of information on his credit file that 
showed he was borrowing  from payday  lenders. Hes also explained that at the time his 
income wasnt enough to cover  his outgoings which meant the credit limit increases werent 
affordable. In response to the investigator,  Mr Ks pointed out that his outstanding balance 
was over the credit limit in the run up to Vanquis decision to approve more borrowing. 
Ref: DRN31604362Vanquis has provided the information it had on file when  it looked at Mr Ks credit limit 
increases. And whilst I note everything Mr K says,  the information Ive seen  shows the 
increases were in line with its lending criteria. Ill look at each of the increases in turn. 
The payments Mr K made to his credit  card in the months before the May 2015  increase 
were higher  than the minimum payments he was required to make. I also note that in 
February 2015, three months before the increase  was approved,  Mr K repaid the 
outstanding balance of his credit  card in full. Vanquis looked at information on Mr Ks credit 
file and found there was no new or recent adverse information. Vanquis also thought  the 
level of other  debts Mr K had was acceptable  so offered to increase his credit limit to £1,750. 
In much the same way, a year later Vanquis  reviewed Mr Ks credit limit again. Whilst the 
outstanding balance had at points  exceeded  the credit  limit, the amounts it went  over by 
were small and payments  were made  to bring  it back down. And, I note Mr Ks point that he 
did miss some payment  dates but the payments were  then made up within  the month they 
were due. That meant Vanquis  didnt consider them as late. 
Vanquis again looked at how Mr Ks other credit had been  handled  and found  no adverse 
information on his credit file. Vanquis did look for short term credit reported on Mr Ks credit 
file but didnt find any at the time.  I appreciate Mr Ks since shown us his credit file that does 
contain information about loans from short term lenders but that wasnt something  Vanquis 
saw when it checked. 
I note that before Vanquis offered the credit limit increases it wrote to Mr K and gave him the 
option to decline  them. Mr K didnt take that step and went on to use the funds on offer. I can 
see that Mr K later had difficulties paying  and agreed a payment plan with Vanquis via a third 
party. Whilst Im sorry Mr K has experienced financial  difficulties, Im satisfied Vanquis  
decisions to lend in this case were reasonable based on the information  it had. 
Mr K later contacted Vanquis after he was made redundant and it agreed to reduce the 
interest rate he was paying and later entered a payment plan.  Whilst I note Mr Ks told us his 
financial difficulties started  much earlier, Im satisfied Vanquis acted positively and 
sympathetically after he asked for help.  
I havent been persuaded that Vanquis  lent irresponsibly when it approved credit limit 
increases in May 2015 and May 2016  so Im not telling it to take any further  action to resolve  
this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3160436