K820x#14Complaint
Mr K1 is unhappy that Ageas Insurance  Limited has declined to pay a claim for water  
damage to his property.  
Background
In the autumn of 2016 Mr K1s home  suffered damage due to an escape  of water. Mr K2 (a 
relative of Mr K1) represented Mr K1 and dealt with the claim for him. 
When it was first informed of the claim,  Ageas asked for details of the plumber that had 
repaired the leak so that it could check that there was a valid claim under  the policy. It also 
gave Mr K2 the option of an appointment for its contractors to attend  the property or for him 
to get quotes for the repairs. Mr K2 said that he would  speak to Mr K1 and confirm his 
preference. Mr K2 confirmed the following day that he wanted  Ageas to send someone out 
to look at the damage. Ageas arranged for the damage to be assessed. 
Just over a week later Mr K2 called Ageas and asked whether the repairs  could be done by 
his own contractors. He was told yes and to get quotes. Ageas explained that it would settle 
the claim for the amount  of the lowest quote  (including its own). 
Mr K1s representative has recently said it was always  his preference from the outset to 
have his own builder  to complete the repairs.
Ageas offered to settle the claim for the amount its contractors had calculated it would 
charge for the repairs. Two figures  were  offered   the amount it would cost the contractor to 
complete the works and then the amount the contractor would charge Ageas to complete the 
works. There  was around £3,000 difference. Both of these offers were declined  by Mr K2.
Mr K2 had obtained  a quote from a local builder  he knew and had completed earlier 
renovations at the property  this was supplied to Ageas. The cost of the repairs  was 
documented as £15,000.00 exclusive of VAT. There was a VAT number contained  in the 
letterhead. These two factors indicated that an additional 20% VAT would  need  to be paid.  
Ageas own costings had been  calculated at £10,600.06. This was the figure Ageas would 
have to pay its contractors. It asked that Mr K2 arrange for his builder to produce  a 
breakdown of the works it was proposing to do so it could establish why there  was such a 
difference in costs. It thought there was the possibility  of double charging  for some things.
Ageas had a conversation with Mr K2 on 23 November 2016  about the quote he had 
provided. He was told that Ageas  had spoken  to the builder who had confirmed he hadnt 
produced the quote. Mr K2 was asked directly who had produced  the quote. He said several 
times that the quote had been produced by the builders girlfriend. Ageas asked Mr K2 to 
provide details of the girlfriend as it needed to speak to her about the quote.
The following  day Mr K2 contacted the broker who had arranged the policy  to discuss  the 
claim. The broker stated  that Mr K2 had called him and, throughout the conversation,  given 
several different  causes  for the source  of the damage. In addition,  the broker reported that 
Mr K2 admitted that he had produced the quote Ageas had concerns about. Mr K2 was 
apparently concerned that he could get into trouble for this and worried  about potential 
consequences. It was reported that Mr K2 said that he was willing to accept the amount 
Ref: DRN34585372Ageas had previously  offered and take the hit. Unfortunately, there isnt a recording of this 
call. The broker was sufficiently concerned  about  the situation  to contact Ageas. 
Subsequently Mr K2 and the builder were interviewed together.  It became apparent that 
Mr K2 was friendly with the builder  and had previously produced  quotes  for him for other 
clients. Mr K2 had previously been  provided with a template to use for this purpose.  He used 
that template  to produce the quote  for Mr K1s property repairs. The builder confirmed that 
he had told Mr K2 what to detail for the works and costs. However, the builder denied 
knowing that there was a VAT number detailed  on the letterhead. He said he didnt 
understand where it had come from, as he was not VAT registered. The builder also said 
that he was not aware of it being  contained  in any other estimate that hed ever supplied.
Ageas withdrew  its settlement offer and began  an investigation of the circumstances 
surrounding the provision of the estimate. Ultimately,  Ageas declined the claim because it 
believed the repair costs has been exaggerated/inflated  for Mr K1s financial benefit. The 
insurance policy details  what would happen if such events occurred:
We will not pay for any claim  that is in any way fraudulent or exaggerated,  of if you or 
anyone acting for you uses fraud to get benefits  under the policy. If you do, we will cancel 
the policy and we will not refund any premiums.
Mr K1 denied the allegations and was unhappy with Ageas stance. He complained and, 
when Ageas didnt  change  its decision,  he referred his complaint to this service. During this 
process Mr K1 obtained two further estimates  to evidence that the original one was not 
excessive. These quotes were produced  in early 2018, nearly  18 months after the escape of 
water, and were  for significantly more than that produced in late 2016/early 2017.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 May 2019. In that document  I set out my conclusions  
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt of that document.
When a claim  is made, a policyholder and their representatives are expected to tell the 
insurer the truth about the circumstances  of the loss and answer any questions  it asks 
honestly. It is clear in this case that didnt happen at times. As detailed above,  when 
questioned about the quote, Mr K2 lied to Ageas about its production   he had produced it, 
but told Ageas that someone  else associated  with the builder had. 
This attempt  to mislead the insurer was made when questions were being asked about  the 
quote and concerns raised about its content  These concerns were  raised  due to Mr K1s 
builders quote  being nearly 50% more  than Ageas contractors assessment of the repair 
costs. It also appeared that the builder  may have  quoted for the same repairs more than 
once. 
Examples of the areas of concern between the quotes were the flooring and the repair of the 
water-damaged wall. In relation to the wall, Mr K1s builder had documented £750 to repair 
the wall (£400 labour and £350 materials). It had then quoted £600 for plastering  (£450 
labour and £150 for materials). The only plastering in the repair schedule was the water  
damaged wall and it was only the plasterboard/plaster layer of the wall that was damaged. 
So it does seem that the repairs to the wall may have been included  twice. Ageas 
contractors had this repair costed as £281.92.  Mr K1s builder wanted  to charge £1,350 for 
the same  work.
Ref: DRN34585373The costs  of the materials for the flooring were detailed by Mr K1s builder  as a total of 
£3,500, being made  up of £100  for floor repair,  £250 for underlay, £2,600 for flooring, £550  
for screws,  glue etc. Ageas materials cost for the flooring was £1,145.60. In relation  to the 
labour to remove and replace the flooring,  Ageas costing was £1,701.25. Mr K1s builders 
costs added up to £2,150.
I can understand why Ageas was concerned about the invoice provided by Mr K1s builder. It 
does appear that some  works may have been  being charged for more  than once and the 
cost of the flooring materials being  three times the amount it was able to supply the materials 
for could  appear  that the costs were being  inflated. 
I note the recent quotes that Mr K1s new representatives have  supplied  this service  are for 
sums considerably higher than the £15,000  his builder  originally  quoted. However, it is clear 
from these quotes  that they were not produced  in line with the scope of repairs that were 
determined necessary at the time of the claim  the quotes cover  considerably  more  work. 
As such,  I dont consider that the quotes  alter the situation in relation to the original builders 
quote.
There is then the issue of the VAT number detailed  on the quote.  It didnt exist and the 
builder has admitted that he wasnt VAT registered  at the time. The builder denied  knowing 
that there  was a false VAT number on the quote  and denied  that any previous quotes had 
been issued with one. The implication of this being that the VAT number was added to the 
quote by Mr K2 when  he typed it. 
Mr K2 indicated that he had never  altered the template that was given to him by the builders 
former girlfriend, but he was clearly aware that the VAT number was on the document  as he 
typed that the figure of £15,000 was excluding VAT. Given Mr K2 had used the builder for 
other building projects  of his own in relation to his rental portfolio, I think Mr K2 would have 
been fully aware  that the builder wasnt VAT registered. 
So in this case Ageas  was faced  with a combination of:
a quote that appears to be inflated/double bills for some  work;
a quote that includes  a false VAT number;
the likelihood that Mr K2 knew that the VAT number was false;  and
the fact that Mr K2 had lied to it about the production  of that document.
As Mr K1 is responsible for the actions of his representatives, I have to review the evidence 
as him having submitted the quote and lied to Ageas  about the circumstances of its 
production. In the circumstances  it does appear  that the quote was inflated in order to obtain  
money that Mr K1 was not entitled to and that he was aware that this was the case. In 
addition, it is clear  that there was initially an attempt to mislead Ageas about the 
circumstances surrounding  the production of the quote. I dont consider that Ageas acted 
inappropriately when  it invoked the policy term it did and declined the claim.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. Mr K1 did not. His representative and Mr K2 
provided extensive further submissions and requested a meeting with me so that Mr K1 and 
Mr K2 to provide  me with an explanation.  We explained that a face-to-face meeting with an 
ombudsman with only one party  was not an option  because fairness and impartiality  needed 
to be maintained. As such, a hearing with both parties was the only option within  our 
process. Given Mr K1s representative had expressed themselves clearly in writing, I didnt 
Ref: DRN34585374consider a hearing was necessary or would  benefit  to the case.  Mr K2 provided  further  
comment in an oral recording.
It was explained  that Mr K2 had acted for Mr K1 in the matter  of the insurance claim as 
Mr K1 has a long-term, potentially disabling medical  condition.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 provided their recollections of how the damage to Mr K1s home happened 
and the events that ensued. I dont  propose to repeat  all of that information here as it is not 
the key to determining the outcome of this complaint. They  have, however, said that the 
reason their builders quote was higher than Ageas one was because  Ageas was proposing 
to do an incomplete repair  and even that repair to a lower standard. They  havent  provided 
any evidence from the time of the claim to support this statement. 
Mr K2 admits his statement to Ageas about  how the quote was produced  was a mis-
statement. He has said he was nervous at the time because he had made  a mistake and 
that resulted in a regrettable lack of judgement.  He didnt  intend to mislead (or lie to) Ageas. 
Rather his comments were made at a frantic time during business hours at work and during 
a period when  Mr K1s health was failing, which preoccupied  Mr K2s mind.  It is an error he 
would like to apologise  for.
In relation to the telephone recording  of the discussion between the broker and Ageas,  
Mr K2 said a sizeable portion of the recorded  conversation is wholly inaccurate and he 
believes it is a malicious, wilful misrepresentation of the conversation he had with the broker. 
Mr K2 commented that the broker should  have been acting as Mr K1s agent and should 
have presented the facts relevant to the claim.  However, he thinks the recording 
demonstrates the broker  when out of his way to suggest Mr K1 and Mr K2 were  up to no 
good. He said the broker made a series of dubious claims. Mr K2 provided further 
recollections about the telephone call and about  other claims mentioned during the call. 
Mr K2 pointed out neither the broker or Ageas has been able to provide documentary or 
recorded evidence  to substantiate the allegations  against him. He believes these 
unsubstantiated allegations have skewed the case against Mr K1 and resulted in Ageas 
reaching a questionable decision on the claim.
In relation to the recording of the loss adjusters interview of Mr K2 and the builder, Mr K2 
has commented that the builder didnt point the finger of blame  at him in relation to the 
figures quoted  or the VAT number appearing in the letterhead and in the text of the quote.  
Indeed, he believes  that it is abundantly clear the builder places responsibility on his 
girlfriend for the VAT number being on the quote.  Accordingly he vehemently rejects  any 
suggestion that he incorporated the VAT number in the estimate.
In addition, Mr K2 said the builder speaks only rudimentary English. He doesnt believe he 
understood the questions being  put to him. 
Mr K2 has gone on to say he didnt have any reason to question  the builders  VAT status.  He 
was aware the builders  business was growing  and he would at some stage have to register 
for VAT. Mr K2 believes it is unfair  of me to content  he was aware of the VAT status of the 
builders business.  He had no reason to suspect  the VAT number was not valid.
As for the allegations Mr K2 added the VAT number to the quote,  he said he only did what  
the builder asked him to do. He considers the allegations are based on faulty inference and 
cannot be unequivocally corroborated by Ageas.  
Ref: DRN34585375In addition, concerns  were raised about the timing  of the provision of the recordings of the 
telephone calls and the loss adjuster interview. Mr K2 and the representative asked why the 
recordings werent released earlier than they were in a format  Mr K1s representative  could 
access. Mr K2 believes that this delay contributed to the extended  period  over which  the 
case had to be argued and reduced  their ability to refute the various allegations. 
Suggestions were  made as to why Ageas may have purposely  delayed  providing the 
recordings.
In summary  Mr K1 and Mr K2 said they would not want the whole claim overshadowed and 
tainted by one error of judgement on Mr K2s part, but rather  have it assessed on its merits 
as a whole. They believe they have justified all their actions, aside from the one mistake,  and 
so respectfully requested that I rule in Mr K1s favour.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  the further  
submissions in response to my provisional decision, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted why Mr K2 was acting as Mr K1s representative during the claim and I can 
understand why he provided this assistance.  I also note that Mr K2 has apologised  for giving 
Ageas an incorrect account  of how the quote was produced when it asked. He has said this 
was due to the call occurring when he was particularly busy at work and when he was 
distracted by concerns about his sons health. 
Whilst Mr K2 has apologised  for what he told Ageas in the telephone conversation  about  the 
origins of the quote and given an explanation of why this happened, I am not persuaded by 
that explanation. I can understand worrying about Mr K1 could have been a distraction, as 
could being busy  at work, and, therefore,  Mr K2 may not have been  paying as much  
attention to the answers he was giving  to questions as he may have later liked.  However, if 
this were the case, it would seem to me that Mr K2 would have been more likely to have 
given accurate answers to the questions  being  asked. To give an alternative version  of 
events would have  needed thought and focus  to create that version of events;  as would 
repeating some aspects  of that version  of events when pressed about it. Despite what Mr K2 
has said in response  to the provisional decision,  I remain  of the view that Mr K2 meant to 
mislead Ageas.  
Mr K2 has denied what the broker said about  their telephone conversation.  He thinks  the 
broker was acting maliciously when he contacted Ageas and reported what  he did. I can 
never know exactly what was said in that telephone  call because there is no recording of it. 
However, a broker contacting an insurer  as he did in this case is an unusual  occurrence. 
I can see no advantage  to the broker in doing so. Indeed, it is likely he would  have been  
disadvantaged in that I think  it likely he lost a client. So whilst what the broker  said wasnt the 
key evidence my conclusions turned on, I dont  think it would be appropriate  to completely 
discount this information as Mr K2 has suggested.  I would,  however, assure  Mr K1 that when 
considering what  the broker  said to Ageas, I bore in mind the fact there was no recording of 
the call or contemporaneous notes.
In light of the comments about the loss adjuster interview I have listened to the recording 
again. I note what  Mr K2 has said about the builders command of the English language and 
how he thinks he didnt understand the questions being asked of him. Its clear that English 
Ref: DRN34585376isnt the builders first language; however, I am not persuaded he didnt understand the 
conversation being  had. 
I agree  that at one point the builder does make the assumption that, if there was a VAT 
number on the template  provided to Mr K2, it was a mistake by his ex-girlfriend. However,  he 
also later confirms that as far as he is aware, no other quote  hed ever issued had included 
this information.  That statement  would include the quotes produced by both his ex-girlfriend 
and Mr K2. When Mr K2 was asked to confirm if any of the previous quotes  hed produced  
for the builder had included VAT details,  he didnt answer the question. 
So whilst I understand Mr K2s interpretation  of what the builder said in the section of 
interview he has focussed on, I cant agree.  The interview as a whole has to be considered  
and when it is, I believe the builder is saying that if the VAT number was on the template  his 
ex-girlfriend sent to Mr K2, then it would have been a mistake  on her part. However, his 
comments about him being unaware  of any other quotes being  issued  with VAT included 
would rather indicate  that he didnt think it was part of the template. 
Mr K2 has said he was not on a friendly  basis with the builder, that it was a business 
relationship. If that were  the case, it would seem unlikely Mr K2 would have produced quotes 
for the builder on an ad-hoc basis without a business arrangement being in place or charge. 
In addition, if there was only a strict business arrangement  between  them,  I would not have 
expected Mr K2s comments about  knowing the builders business was growing and, 
therefore, would need to be VAT registered  at some point. This would also indicate that 
Mr K2 knew  that at an earlier point  the builder was not VAT registered. That said,  I remain  
satisfied that Mr K2, having paid the builder for works in the relevantly recent past (when  
compared to when the quote was produced) would  have known the builder hadnt been VAT 
registered at that time.
It has been pointed  out several  times  that the builder  became VAT registered  shortly after 
the quote was produced. This may be the case,  but at the time the quote was created and 
the works  should  have commenced,  he wasnt VAT registered. So VAT should not have  
been included  in the quote.
I accept Mr K2s point  that Ageas cannot unequivocally corroborate that he added  the VAT 
number to the letterhead and added VAT wording to the text of the quote.  However,  we are 
not a court  of law and the test we apply is the balance  of probabilities. I remain of the view 
the evidence shows the quote  submitted on Mr K1s behalf was most likely inflated to obtain 
money he was not entitled to, he and/or his representative was aware of it and there was an 
attempt to mislead Ageas about  the circumstances surrounding the production of the quote. 
I note the comments about  the provision of the recordings we recently provided to the 
representative and Mr K2. I also note that those calls requested, which  dont appear to have  
included that of the loss adjuster interview,  were provided when asked for much earlier in the 
claim investigation process. It is unfortunate that Mr K1s representative couldnt listen to the 
recordings in the format they were  provided in. I dont know  if there  was any attempt by 
Ageas to provide the recordings  in a different format at the time, but even if there werent, I 
dont think it would have  made a difference  to what happened in relation to the claim.  I say 
this as I dont think  Mr K2s interpretation of, or comments on, the content  of the recordings 
would have had the effect he believes they would have.
Overall, I remain satisfied  that it was not unreasonable for Ageas to apply the policy term it 
did to decline Mr K1s claim.
Ref: DRN34585377My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K1 to accept or reject  my decision  before 
16 August 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3458537