K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr A says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mr A that he had a choice  about  it. But 
Mr A says he doesnt remember PPI being discussed and thinks it was added  without  him 
agreeing to it.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr As application form for the credit card. This included a box 
to be ticked if Mr A wanted to take out PPI. There is a cross  in the box and Mr A has signed 
the application to say he agrees with it.
Based on what I understand about  Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think its likely that 
the cross  in the PPI box was the result of a conversation between Mr A and Halifax. And that 
it wouldve  been made clear to Mr A in this conversation, that he had a choice about  the PPI. 
So I think its likely Mr A chose to take the PPI, knowing he didnt have  to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve received full sick pay for.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr A off taking it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr A.
Ref: DRN33086472my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3308647