K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  which Mr B took out to protect his mortgage in 2005. 
The policy paid a monthly benefit  in the event of accident or sickness or unexpected 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. He felt that Mr Bs financial circumstances at the 
time, which included  a substantial pension hed been receiving for more than ten years,  
meant that he didnt  need the PPI. So our adjudicator didnt think that Mr B wouldve taken 
out the policy if Santander had given him clear enough information about the limited benefit  it 
offered him.
Santander disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly says that Mr B took out the policy  
some years after hed set up his mortgage  so he wouldve known  it wasnt  a requirement  of 
the borrowing  and he mustve thought it was suitable for his needs.  
Santander also says that theres no way to tell whether Mr B wouldve had to use his 
pension to pay other expenses. And it says Mr B said at the time that he wouldnt be able to 
afford his repayments  if he couldnt earn due to accident, sickness or redundancy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  Mr B to take out a PPI policy which would cover him if he was 
unable to work because he was sick or had an accident, or if he lost his job. Mr B accepted  
Santanders recommendation.
Because Santander made this recommendation, it needed to make  sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr B. This means that Id expect Santander to have asked appropriate questions 
to check if he was likely to be able to benefit  sufficiently overall from paying to have  the PPI. 
Ive seen a copy  of the record Santander  sent us of a meeting between  Mr B and its advisor  
when Mr Bs financial situation was discussed.  But Ive seen  nothing  that shows  me what, if 
anything, was said about Mr Bs pension arrangements or that Santander  considered the 
significance of Mr Bs pension income  when recommending the policy to him. 
I dont think its likely  that the policys true cost and benefits were explained clearly enough to 
allow Mr B to work out whether PPI offered him any useful benefit that it wouldve been 
worthwhile for him to buy. 
Ref: DRN35522342Even without  taking into account what  Mr B told us about some money he had invested, he 
had two regular  sources  of substantial income.  He was in a well paid job which offered him 
good sick pay and he was also able to depend on his pension if he lost his job  which  paid 
Mr B significantly more  than the policy wouldve paid him each  month. 
Given what Mr B said about his financial circumstances, I think that as his pension was 
additional money that was effectively a supplementary income,  over and above what was 
required for the purposes of paying the mortgage, he wouldve been  able to cover the 
mortgage monthly repayments comfortably without needing PPI. 
Ive taken into account that the policy protected secured borrowing on Mr Bs home  so the 
consequences of not being  able to meet the mortgage monthly repayments couldve  been  
serious. But I dont  think  Mr B wouldve felt he had much  use for the policy,  given  the limited  
benefits it offered  in his particular circumstances, if Santander had given  him enough  clear  
information so he could decide  if the policy was value for money for him. 
And I think its unlikely that Mr B wouldve bought  the policy if Santander  had given him clear  
enough information about it.
So, I think Mr B has lost out because of what Santander  did wrong.
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including the detailed response to our 
adjudicators assessment,  but I still think I should uphold  the complaint. 
putting things right
Santander should put Mr B in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr B the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
If Santander has already  repaid any commission amount to Mr B that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by Santander from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN35522343my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3552234