K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Miss M took out PPI with her mortgage  in 1999. The policy  covered her for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  find there  was enough evidence to uphold Miss Ms mis-sale 
complaint. Miss M disagrees. In summary,  she mainly told us that PPI wasnt  something she 
had wanted or needed   but shed felt under pressure during  the meeting at the bank when 
she signed all the mortgage paperwork. She said that PPI was included on her account 
without her knowledge or consent when she had signed multiple times during the mortgage 
application process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Heres why I say this.
I cant know exactly what was said when Miss M arranged her mortgage and the PPI. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to recall exactly what  was discussed at the time. This 
means that what Miss M says now isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold  her 
complaint.
Looking at the information that Ive seen and been told about  the PPI sold to Miss M, I think 
Lloyds made  Miss M aware that she had a choice about having the PPI it recommended to 
her. And, despite what Miss M remembers now, when  she signed up for the policy  I think  
that she chose  to take out the cover.   
Theres nothing mentioned on Miss Ms mortgage application which  suggests  that PPI was a 
requirement of getting the mortgage. Theres a section  on Miss Ms mortgage application 
where it asks if she wishes to apply for PPI - this is ticked. There was an option she couldve 
ticked instead to say that the cover wasnt required if Miss M hadnt  wanted to have it. This 
has been left blank on her application.  So I think Miss M wouldve been  able to see that it 
was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. And Miss M has signed  her completed application to 
confirm she agrees with what it says on the form. 
She has also signed a separate PPI application to have the cover added  on. And at the 
same time Miss M also completed the information needed to set up monthly payment 
arrangements at her bank  to cover the cost. Ive taken into account that Miss M says she 
had to sign multiple times during the mortgage application process.  But I think its likely that 
she wouldve checked carefully to make  sure she was happy  with the information on the 
forms she was signing. 
Ref: DRN38258882Even if shed felt under pressure when signing the forms,  shortly afterwards, Lloyds wrote to 
Miss M, enclosing the policy schedule.  This set out details of the cover shed taken out and 
Lloyds explained  she could cancel the policy  at no cost if it wasnt  what she wanted. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that happened.
I can see why Miss M mightve  wanted PPI. Her mortgage was a significant financial 
commitment and her home  couldve  been  at risk if she hadnt  been able to make her 
mortgage monthly repayments in full and on time. So I can understand that protecting her 
repayments wouldve  been an important consideration for her. On balance, I think Miss M 
signed up for the policy knowing  she couldve declined it if she didnt want  to have  the cover 
- and that it was added to her mortgage account  when she requested  this. 
Lloyds recommended PPI to Miss M. So it shouldve taken reasonable steps  to make sure 
the cover  was suitable as well as giving her important policy  information  in a clear  way. And 
if that didnt happen, I have to think about  whether this makes any overall  difference.
Miss M told us that in the event of sickness she wouldve received sick pay from her 
employer at the time for 12 months.  But this doesnt  mean that the PPI wasnt  suitable for 
her. 
Miss M was eligible for the policy. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months on top of 
her work benefits each  time she made a successful claim. The amount paid to her wouldve 
more than covered  her mortgage monthly  repayments as it also included some  extra  to help 
with other  costs.  
I think this couldve been useful if Miss M wasnt able to work  as she mightve  had other 
expenses to meet as a result of being sick or disabled.  And she couldve made repeated  
claims so she wouldve had long term cover for her mortgage. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if shed  lost her job. 
Miss M told us she couldve relied on family to help out in the event  of money problems.  But 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly so I think the PPI provided more  
dependable cover. Given Miss Ms situation  and the serious problems that can happen when 
mortgage payments  arent paid in full and on time,  I think  PPI was suitable  for her. 
Some information Lloyds gave Miss M about the PPI possibly wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like this wouldve 
affected Miss M. So I dont think its likely that being told information  about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  put her off taking it out. 
I dont know if Lloyds  gave Miss M clear  information  about all aspects of the PPI costs. But 
she chose to sign up for the cover when she didnt have to  so she appears to have wanted  
it. She signed an instruction to her bank to pay the monthly premiums   so it looks like she 
was happy to pay for the policy when she applied to have it. And the PPI seems to have 
been affordable  for her. Overall, I think it unlikely Miss M wouldve made a different decision 
if Lloyds had given  her better information.
Ref: DRN38258883Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back  to Miss M some  of the 
commission she paid. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Miss Ms 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss M paid for the PPI she had with that 
mortgage.
Its understandable  that Miss M mightve forgotten some details from a sale that took place 
so long ago. But, based on all the information  Ive seen, I dont find shes lost out as a result 
of anything that Lloyds mightve done  wrong when it sold her PPI. This means it doesnt 
need to take any steps to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Miss M has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view.  But for the reasons Ive 
mentioned above,  this doesnt affect the outcome.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for her  but I hope that settings things  out as 
Ive done helps explain how Ive cone to this conclusion.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3825888