K821x#15complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited  has registered a default on her credit file. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. For 
the reasons I set out, I concluded that Everyday Lending should have defaulted Mrs Js 
account sooner  than it did and should refund any interest and charges levied on the account  
after that date.  If this results in the balance having  been repaid in full, then any 
overpayments should be refunded to Mrs J, along with interest at 8% simple per annum  from 
the date she made the payments to the date any refund is made. 
I invited both Mrs J and Everyday Lending to let me have any further comments  they wished 
to make in response  to my provisional  decision. 
Response to my provisional findings
Mrs J accepted my provisional  findings,  but Everyday Lending didnt. It said (in summary):
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  guidance on the application of defaults  
is just guidance.  Its for businesses to decide  when  to apply a default in conjunction  
with providing a customer with a fair outcome. It said it believes its in the best 
interest of its customers to come to a reduced payment plan rather than applying a 
default.
It disagreed with my comment  that the account wasnt rescheduled. It said it 
rescheduled the account to accept  reduced  payments as follows:
oMay 2014 - £42.58 a month
oJune 2014  - £32.32 a month
oFebruary 2015 - £36.01 a month
oMay 2016 - £40 a month
Interest is adjusted  when the account is rescheduled so the customer  will never  pay 
more than the amount owed under the contract.  
Theres nothing in the ICO guidance to say how arrears should  be calculated  i.e. 
whether it should be based on the contracted amount or the reduced agreed amount. 
While  the original  contractual agreement had failed as had subsequent temporary 
arrangements, ICO guidance  says a business  may (Everyday Lendings emphasis) 
apply the default.
It believes its in the best interest  of the customer to provide a them with six months 
to come to a further temporary arrangement. It said Mrs Js complaint was that she 
didnt want a default and was trying  to come to a new agreement.  
my findings
After receiving responses from both parties, Ive reconsidered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im minded to proceed with my final decision along the same lines as set 
out in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.
My role, and that of the ombudsman  service,  is defined in the Handbook of the Financial 
Conduct Authority   specifically the Dispute Resolution Rules,  known as DISP.  
Ref: DRN31220602DISP 3.6.1 says The ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference  to what  is, in his 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all he circumstances of the case.  DISP 3.6.4 says in 
considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the ombudsman 
will take into account:
1.Relevant:
a.Law and regulations;
b.Regulators rules, guidance  and standards;
c.Codes of practice 
Everyday Lending  is correct to say that the ICO guidance is simply guidance  it is for a 
business to use the guidance  to set its own rules  and processes. I agree with that, but when 
assessing cases, as Ive set out above, I need  to have  regard  for that guidance, and 
consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the all the circumstances. 
I asked Everyday Lending in January 2020  if Mrs Js account had been rescheduled. I asked 
it to provide a copy of the new credit agreement  if it had. Its response was that it had made  a 
temporary arrangement  with Mrs J. So while it has now referred to that as rescheduling the 
account, Im not persuaded it did. Rather it agreed to accept  reduced  payments on a 
temporary basis. 
When the first temporary arrangement was put in place in May 2014,  Mrs J had already 
missed two payments  at the contracted level. She was able to keep to the May and June 
2014 temporary agreements, until she missed a payment  in January 2015. A new 
arrangement was put in place in February 2015,  which was then broken in May 2015. So by 
that time,  Mrs J had missed two contractual payment, and had broken two temporary 
arrangements. 
Section 4 of the ICO guidance  says:
If you fall into arrears  on your account, or you do not keep to the revised  terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship  has broken 
down.
As Ive said,  by May 2015, two temporary arrangements  had been  broken. The effect of 
agreeing temporary  arrangements on a long-term  basis is that the consumer continues  to 
pay the interest under the credit agreement while making reduced payments. When an 
account is defaulted, the debt is crystallised  and interest and charges are no longer payable 
by the consumer. 
Everyday Lending  says it believes providing  a customer with six months  to come to a further  
temporary arrangement  is in the customers best interest. I agree with it to a point,  but only 
where such an arrangement is actually  temporary to enable  a consumer to get over a 
difficult period and resume full repayments.  
Its also fair for Everyday  Lending to point out that Mrs J had complained  that the default was 
registered at all  she had been trying  to enter into a new arrangement  with it. But weve 
agreed with Everyday Lending  that it was right for the business to apply the default - and 
Mrs J has accepted that  but weve not agreed on when the default shouldve  been applied.  
As Ive said,  two payment arrangements had already been broken by May 2015. It seemed 
likely at the time that Mrs J was unable to keep to the arrangements  that were  being made. 
By continuing to allow temporary arrangements Everyday Lending was continuing to charge 
Ref: DRN31220603Mrs J interest  on the debt. This doesnt seem  to be in the customers best interest as 
Everyday Lending  has said.  
Having regard, as I must,  for what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I 
think it would  have  been fair for Everyday Lending  to have defaulted Mrs Js account  in 
May 2015. If it had, interest wouldnt have been charged since then and the payments  she 
has made since then would have reduced  debt more quickly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out here, and in more detail in my provisional decision, Im 
upholding Mrs Js complaint. Everyday Lending  Limited 
Backdate the default to the date that Mrs J failed  to meet the terms of the revised
arrangement  that is May 2015.
Rework the account refunding any interest and charges levied on the account  after 
the default date.  If that results in the balance having  been repaid in full, then Mrs J 
should have any overpayments refunded to her along with interest at 8% simple  per 
annum from the date she made  the payments to the date any refund is made. If 
Everyday Lending Limited considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mrs J how much  its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so that she can 
reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31220604COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited have registered a default on her credit file.
background
In November 2012, Mrs J took a loan from Everyday Lending which  was due to be repaid within 
three years with monthly repayments of £158.43. In March  2014, as Mrs J entered  a debt 
management plan (DMP) and agreed to make  payments of £32.31 per month.
In 2016, she discovered that the company managing  her DMP were taking a portion of the money  she 
paid them to settle her debts, so she decided  to do it herself. She agreed with Everyday Lending that 
shed continue to pay £32.31 per month. She actually  paid £40 per month from April 2016 to 
September 2017.
In September 2017 unfortunately Mrs Js income  reduced. She made  no repayments in October or 
November 2017. She contacted Everyday Lending and proposed to pay £1 in December 2017 and £5 
per month  for six months and then shed review her situation again. Due to a mix up with account 
details, the December payment of £1 was made in January 2018,  so a total of £6 was paid that 
month, and £5 from then on.
In September 2018, Mrs J increased her payment to £15. In November 2018, she discovered that 
Everyday Lending had recorded a default on her credit file on 30 October  2018.  She complained  to 
Everyday Lending about this. She felt the registration of the default  was unfair  as shed just 
increased her payments.
Everyday Lending looked into her complaint  and sent its final response on 19 November 2018.  It said 
the registration of the default was unrelated  to her increase  in payments. Its policy  is to register a 
default when six months of arrears have accrued. When  she increased her payment, it sent her an 
income and expenditure  form to see if she could  sustain the £15 payments. It said the purpose of this 
was to see if it could reschedule the account for payments at that level. As the form wasnt returned, 
the reschedule  process couldnt  be completed. Everyday  Lending said it had sent pre-default letters  
on 31 August  and 30 September  2018 which explained it wo procedures.  It didnt  agree that it was 
wrong to register  the default.
Mrs J didnt agree so referred  her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked  into it. Our 
investigator considered  industry practice and guidance issued by the Information  Commissioners 
Office (ICO) about defaults. She said that it wasnt wrong for Everyday Lending to register the 
default, but that it should  have done so sooner. She felt the default should have been registered in 
May 2018 when it was clear that Mrs J was unable  to meet the repayments of £32.31.
Mrs J accepted our investigators opinion,  but Everyday Lending didnt. It said it had complied with 
the ICO guidance  and defaulted Mrs Js account when it reached six months  arrears. As there  was 
no agreement, the complaint  was referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ICO published guidance in July 2016 called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears,  
Arrangements and Defaults  at Credit  reference Agencies. This updated its previous  guidance 
of Filing defaults  with credit reference agencies from 2007.
Ref: DRN31220605Section 4 of the ICO guidance says:
If you fall into arrears  on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general  guide, this may occur when  you are 3 months  in arrears, and normally by 
the time you are 6 months in arrears.
Everyday Lending says its process is to default an account  when the arrears balance equals six 
months payments.  The payments set out on the credit agreement were  £158.43,  but Mrs J hasnt 
paid that since 2014 when she entered a debt management plan at £32.31.  Most of Mrs Js other 
creditors registered defaults  at that stage.  As Mrs J was paying  approximately £126 less each 
month than she should, arrears will have equalled  six months payments very quickly  and probably  at 
some point in later 2014 / early 2015.
The account  wasnt rescheduled. Everyday Lending  says it adjusted  the schedule  under  a 
temporary informal arrangement allowing Mrs J to pay £32.31 per month from April 2014.  In April, 
May, June and July 2014, Everyday Lending charged interest which was well in excess of the 
payments they were  receiving so the outstanding balance  on the account  was increasing rather than 
decreasing. On 13 June 2014, it wrote to Mrs J to say it would continue  to accept  the reduced 
amount for a further six months i.e. until December 2014.
Everyday Lending continued  to accept the reduced repayments for much longer than that, the 
effect of which was it continued to receive small repayments (relative to the £158.43 contractual 
payments) while also continuing to charge  interest.
From May 2015, Everyday Lending stopped receiving the £32 payments, instead  receiving 
between £6 and £20. So it was clear that the arrangement that was intended to be temporary had 
failed.
Ive quoted  section 4 of the ICO guidance above. Its clear that Everyday  Lending had agreed a 
temporary arrangement (which in my view is in line with what  the ICO refers  to as revised  terms of 
an arrangement) and Mrs J didnt keep to it. By that time, the account was already likely to have been 
more than six months in arrears based on the £158.43 contractual payment,  and the revised terms 
had been broken. Its my view therefore,  that a default  should have been registered in May 2015 at 
the latest.
Had the loan been defaulted at that stage, no interest would have been added to the balance after 
that date.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to the further  submissions  of the parties, is that Everyday  Lending 
Limited should:
1.Backdate the default to the date that Mrs J failed to meet the terms of the revised 
arrangement  that is May 2015.
2.Rework the account refunding any interest and charges levied  on the account after the 
default date. If that results in the balance  having been repaid in full, then Mrs J should 
have any overpayments refunded to her along with interest at 8% simple per annum from 
the date she made the payments to the date any refund  is made. If Everyday Lending 
Limited considers it is required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income  tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should  also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one so that she can reclaim  the tax if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3122060