K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs P. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in November 2000 alongside a store credit 
account. Mrs P was sold the PPI at the same time that she applied for the card in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs P has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
The card application  form does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make  by signing a 
box saying you want PPI. I can see that Mrs P has signed this. So I think  Mrs P would have 
known she had a choice.
It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ps 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs P to decide  whether  it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs P clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know  how 
much detail she was given in the shop. So Ive thought about whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, even if shed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think its likely to have made a difference to 
her decision.  I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer  
than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been  in addition to any employer 
sick pay or redundancy pay. And she could have kept any savings in reserve for longer. Also 
it doesnt look like shed  have been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the policy.  
So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN37671652Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3767165