K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about an incorrect mortgage payment calculation  made  by 
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham  Midshires, referred to as BM).
background
Mr C held a buy to let mortgage with BM. In February 2019, BM notified Mr C that there  had 
been an error calculating the mortgage  repayments  on the account, which meant  that Mr C 
had been underpaying. BM apologised  for the error  and credited the account with £93.83.  
BM also offered Mr C £75 in compensation for the delay in responding to his concerns.
Mr C accepts that the credit of £93.83  brings the mortgage account up to date. But he feels  
that BM should pay more in compensation  given that he is a long standing customer. Mr C 
also points out that if he had made an error he would have been charged for any 
rectification.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought BM had corrected the error with the 
mortgage calculation.  Overall, our investigator  thought that £75 was fair and reasonable 
compensation. She explained that our service does not have the power to punish a 
business.
Mr C disagrees  with the view. He would like £250 in compensation.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not disputed  that that an error  was made  in calculating the mortgage repayments. It is 
agreed that the figure of £93.83 brings the account up to date. So in terms of the mortgage 
account, Mr C is now in the same position as if the error had not been made. I have also 
seen that BM apologised for their error.
The issue  for me to determine is whether fair and reasonable compensation has been 
awarded for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr C has not pointed  to any particular inconvenience caused  by BMs error but would like 
more compensation.  I think it is helpful to explain that our service has no disciplinary or 
regulatory role. We have no power  to fine a business for any errors made. We provide an 
informal dispute resolution service and where things have gone wrong, we assess 
compensation on a fair and reasonable basis. 
Mr C was upset that an error  was made  and complained to BM about  it in April. BM accept 
they took too long to respond  to Mr C and have offered £75 to compensate  for this. I have 
taken into account  that by this stage the error  made in the account had already been 
rectified. In my view the offer of £75 was fair and reasonable.
On balance, I consider  that apologising, rectifying the account and offering £75 was fair and 
reasonable to resolve the errors made, so I wont be asking BM to do anything more.
Ref: DRN38086822my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3808682