K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to send her replacement debit cards in 
a timely  manner, allowed fraudulent transactions to take place on her account,  and gave  her 
poor customer service.
background
Miss C has raised a total of 16 complaints with Barclays in 2018  and 2019, about various 
issues. 14 of these  were upheld, and she was paid a total of about £810.  Four final response 
letters were issued to her by Barclays in December 2018 and January 2019. Meanwhile, in 
late December, she brought this complaint  to our Service. In March,  Barclays  told her it was 
closing her accounts, because it regarded her as a serial and vexatious complainer. Miss C 
did not complain  about  that, however, because she had already been thinking  of closing her 
accounts anyway.  (Later that month, she received a fifth final response letter, but this only 
referred her back to the first such letter.)
Barclays argued that this complaint should not be upheld, because it had already paid 
Miss C enough compensation for all the issues she had raised.  At first, a review of its 
records had only found ten of her complaints, for which  it had paid her a total of £640. After  
our investigator upheld this complaint, and recommended another £250  compensation, 
Barclays reviewed its records again and found  that there had actually been 16 complaints. 
Again, Barclays argued that it had paid Miss C enough. But our investigator maintained that 
the full £250 hed recommended was still deserved,  because Barclays had not provided  the 
evidence hed asked  for until May 2019,  six months after Miss C had first contacted our 
Service and three months after the latest time that the investigator  thought  it would have 
been reasonable of Barclays to provide it.
Barclays did not accept  that opinion, and so it asked for an ombudsman to review  this case. 
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am minded to uphold  it, but I currently 
only intend to award  another  £75, rather than £250.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise  to both parties for the amount of time it has 
taken for this complaint to be assigned to an ombudsman.
I agree  that £810 is sufficient and fair compensation for all the issues  Miss C was originally 
complaining about, so I wont describe  them all here. I will confine myself to the issue the 
investigators proposed  award of £250 was for. That was for the delay  in Barclays  providing  
the evidence the investigator asked for in order to consider this complaint. (Of course,  
Miss Cs complaint was not originally about that, but it has been dealt with as part of this 
complaint rather than setting up a new and separate complaint.)
I am satisfied that I can consider a complaint  about this issue, because rules  made  by the 
FCA say that this Service can consider complaints not just about regulated activities, but 
Ref: DRN37926572also about the manner  in which a respondent has administered its business,  provided that 
the business is an activity subject to the Financial  Ombudsman Service's jurisdiction.1 So 
I think the manner  in which a respondent administers its business  includes how it deals with 
complaints about  the regulated activities it carries  on.
The significant dates  are as follows:
13 and 17 December  2018  first and second  final response letters.
20 December  Miss C brought this complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service.
21 December  FOS request to Barclays for its evidence. (No response.)
3 January 2019  third final response letter.
11 January  second FOS request  to Barclays for its evidence.
15 January  Barclays responded to FOS to ask for more details to identify the 
complainant.
16 January  FOS provided more details about  Miss C.
17 January  Barclays identified Miss C as the complainant,  but asked for 
clarification about what  her complaint was about.
24 January  FOS re-sent the email it had sent to Barclays on 21 December.
30 January  fourth final response  letter.
9 and 13 February  third and fourth  FOS requests to Barclays for its evidence. 
Barclays replied on 13th to say it could not identify the complainant  or the complaint.
20 February  Barclays identified Miss C as the complainant again. New complaint  
issue added to the complaint.
13 March  fifth FOS request to Barclays for its evidence.
20 March  fifth final response letter (refers to 13 December final response  letter).
9 April  sixth FOS request to Barclays for its evidence.
17 April  investigator decided to proceed  without waiting for Barclays evidence.
18 April  investigator issued his first opinion about the complaint.
6 May  Barclays provided  its evidence.
17 May  second opinion  issued  by investigator.
27 June  Barclays provided further  evidence.
I dont think Barclays was responsible for the delay  in providing its business  file before 17 
January 2019.  Until then,  not enough information had been provided  to it to identify which of 
its customers was complaining. But on that date,  Barclays identified that it was Miss C who 
had brought this complaint to this Service. The subject matter  of the complaint had been 
provided already.  So I think  the requested evidence ought to have been provided in early  
February, at least for the issues dealt with in the first three final response  letters.  The issues 
raised in the fourth final response, which had not yet been issued, could not have been dealt 
with as part of this complaint until later on. But in the meantime the investigator could have 
begun considering so much  of this complaint as had already been dealt with by Barclays 
prior to 17 January. So I think that the delay between the first week  of February and 6 May 
was Barclays responsibility.
I think that error is mitigated by the fact that this delay did not adversely affect the outcome 
of Miss Cs complaint. I take into account the fact that a delay of similar length was caused 
by this Service failing to provide the bank  with enough information  to identify its customer. 
And I take into account the amount of money already paid to Miss C for the substantive 
1 See DISP 2.1.4(3).
Ref: DRN37926573issues that led her to complain in the first place. Taking all of these matters  into account, 
I think that £75 is fair compensation  for the delay.
my provisional findings
Both Miss C and Barclays accepted my provisiona l conclusions. So theres  no reason for me 
to depart from them, and I confirm  them  here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss C £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3792657