K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Yorkshire Building  Society (which Ill call YBS) wrongly allowed a third 
party access  to a fixed rate bond. 
background
Mr S and his wife opened two fixed rate bonds, one with an investment of £25,000, the other  
with an investment of £80,000. Ill set out briefly the history of each.
the £25,000 bond 
This was opened on or about  29 November  2011 and matured on 31 May 2013. Shortly  
before it matured, the building society received signed instructions from Mr and Mrs S asking 
that the maturity  proceeds be split. Mr S received  just over £13,000,  which was credited to 
an account in his name. 
the £80,000 bond  
This bond was opened on or about  11 March 2011  and matured  on 28 February  2014. In 
August 2012 the building society transferred £50,000 to an account in the sole name  of Mrs 
S. 
In August  2013  Mrs S passed away. Her share of the bond  proceeds formed  part of her 
estate and YBS added her personal  representative to the account. In October  2013  the 
account was also switched so that two signatures  were required to operate it. 
When the bond matured in February  2014 Mr S received half the remaining investment, or 
just over £18,300. 
Mr Ss concerns
Mr S says that there  should not have been a third party added to the £80,000  bond.  That is, 
he doesnt think Mrs Ss personal  representatives should have had access to the account. 
YBS said that it was satisfied it had acted in line with his instructions  and those of his late 
wifes estate. Mr S had confirmed that the signature  on the instruction to make changes  to 
the account in October 2013  was his. Mr S didnt recall signing that instruction, but YBS said 
he appeared to confirm  the instructions to split the proceeds shortly before the bond matured 
in February 2014.  
Mr S said as well that hed found  documents in his house indicating  that other family 
members had tried to gain access to the funds, and he was concerned that YBS had acted 
on them.  
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ss concerns but concluded that YBS had operated  the 
accounts in line with its customers instructions. It had, he said,  been right to add Mrs Ss 
estate to the account and he was satisfied that the building society had valid instructions to 
switch the account to a both to sign mandate. Mr S asked that the matter  be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Ref: DRN31847282Its clear from what Mr S has told us that hes unhappy about the way he feels that his family 
has treated him, and Im sorry about  that. Hes mentioned a number  of incidents that arent 
directly related to his concerns  about  YBS. 
Mr S doesnt  appear to have any issue with the treatment  of the £25,000  bond  or the 
payment of £50,000  in August 2012. But, for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied  that YBS 
acted properly in both instances.  
The issue  I have to consider therefore  is whether YBS acted correctly  in switching the 
£80,000 bond (by that time reduced  by £50,000)  to a both to sign mandate  and paying only 
half the maturity proceeds to him. YBS had a signed  form, which it says it sent to Mr S and 
which he returned, instructing it to make the switch.  He said he didnt  specifically recall  
signing it, but acknowledged that he did forget things. On balance, however, I think  it more 
likely than not that he did agree to the change.  
But more  significantly,  he discussed shortly before the bond matured what  should happen to 
the proceeds. He agreed that he should  receive half of the balance at maturity.  So, even if 
he hadnt agreed to the switch a few months previously, he did agree to the way the money 
was divided. YBS paid him in line with that instruction.  Had he not agreed to the change  in 
the way the bond was held, I doubt  he would have agreed that he should  only receive half 
the proceeds. And, having  agreed  to that in February 2014, I dont believe it would be fair for 
him later to say that wasnt his intention, especially once YBS had acted on that instruction. 
I note too that Mr S appears to have found instructions that werent  in line with his intentions 
for the account.  But Im satisfied they were never acted on and that YBS paid the proceeds  
of the bond in line with his instructions. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Yorkshire Building Society  to take 
any further steps to resolve this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 18 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3184728