K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited wont  pay him the full cost he incurred for 
alternative accommodation (AA) and other expenses when it settled a claim for escape  of 
water under his home insurance  policy.
background
Mr As flat was damaged  by an escape  of water. He made a claim under his policy which  
Aviva accepted. It arranged for the property  to be stripped out and dried.  It agreed  that Mr A, 
his wife and two children should be moved  to AA in a local hotel while the property  was 
uninhabitable. Aviva agreed to pay Mr A for additional expenses, including  food expenses,  
he incurred as a result of being out of his home.
In June 2018, the property was declared  dry. Avivas contractor, however, wasnt available to 
start work for a few weeks. In July 2018, Mr A therefore agreed a cash  settlement with Aviva  
so that his own contractor could carry out the repairs.  By this time, Mr A had moved to a 
serviced apartment.
In August  2018,  the work  was completed. Mr A and his family  moved  back  into their home.
Mr A later made a further expense claim to Aviva. This included  AA costs,  other  expenses, 
charges for his project  management of the repair  work and compensation for stress caused 
to him and his family. When Aviva didnt  agree  to the claim, he complained  to it.
In February 2019,  Aviva  issued its final response  to the complaint. It agreed  to pay Mr As 
AA costs from 14 July 2018 (which  was the date to which it had already paid these costs) 
until 29 July 2018.  It considered that this had been  plenty of time for the repair  work  to have 
been completed and that Mr As property was habitable from this stage. It also agreed to pay 
Mr A for parking and additional mileage  expenses for this period, as well as additional  
electricity charges which he would have incurred during the claim. However, it didnt agree to 
pay continued food expenses as it said that Mr As AA had a kitchen. Nor did it agree to pay 
the other claimed  expenses. It offered £300 compensation for the lateness of its payment.
Mr A was unhappy at Avivas response. He said that he had needed to remain in AA until 
24 August 2018.  He also said the kitchen in his AA was inadequate  to prepare meals  for his 
family. He considered  that hed been left out of pocket by Aviva.  He referred  his complaint to 
us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
The evidence shows that Mr A was left to arrange his own AA. It also shows  that he agreed 
to employ his own contractors to do the work because this was likely to be quicker than 
waiting for Avivas contractor to become available.
Mr A has referred to a phone call he had with Aviva in January 2019. A recording of this call 
isnt available. However, this call took place  while Aviva  was considering Mr As complaint 
and before it issued  its final response  letter. I therefore consider that whatever may have 
been said in the call was superseded by the final response letter. And if it were  the case that 
Aviva changed its mind during the time it was considering  the complaint, this didnt cause  
any loss to Mr A because the disputed costs had already been incurred.
Ref: DRN38104402In respect of Mr As claim for the cost of AA, I note that Aviva has referred  in its internal 
notes to the cost of his AA as extortionate.  However, this doesnt  appear to be the fault of 
Mr A but is due simply to the high cost of accommodation in the area in which he lives.  I note 
that at the start of the claim,  Aviva  told its agent  it would agree to weekly costs  of up £1,500. 
By June  2018,  Mr A had found  accommodation for him and his family which  was £145 a 
night (£1,015  a week), so it was well within this limit. 
On 12 July 2018, Mr A emailed Aviva with a quote  for repair  works (excluding  the flooring) of 
£3,820. He said that the works could start the following Monday or Tuesday (16 or 17 July)  
and were expected  to take two weeks to complete.  However, I dont believe that this was 
when the full works, including  the flooring, were expected  to be completed.
Aviva responded the same day agreeing to cover  this cost and asking Mr A to confirm when 
his AA was due to end.
Mr A responded (though the date of this response isnt shown in Avivas  submission) 
explaining that the repair works were taking  slightly  longer than expected.  He also said he 
had spent approximately £250 on paint. He enclosed  a quote for the flooring cost and said 
that his AA was currently booked  until 15 August 2018 though he hoped  to move back home 
before then.
Aviva responded on 7 August 2018  apologising for the delay. It invited Mr A to provide 
evidence of the paint and other costs he had incurred.  It agreed to the flooring quote.
Mr A sent a further  email on 16 August 2018  in which he asked about the cleaning of his 
property and the return of his items from storage. He was clearly still in AA at this stage.
Aviva responded on 21 August 2018  addressing  Mr As queries. It asked whether Mr A was 
now living  in his property.
Mr A wasnt  living  in his property at this stage. His contents were  only returned from storage  
on 23 August 2018. And it appears  that Mr A returned to the property the following day.
Aviva says that Mr A was told that AA payments  would stop on 29 July 2018.  I cant  see any 
evidence to show this. Aviva says Mr As property was habitable by this time but again Ive 
seen no evidence to demonstrate this. It seems that Aviva  was aware that Mr A was in AA 
well beyond  this date while work continued  at his property but I cant see that it ever 
confirmed that his AA costs would not be covered. I see no reason why Mr A would have 
chosen to stay in the AA longer than necessary. It seems that part of the reason his stay in 
AA was extended was due to the delay in Aviva providing authorisation and responding to 
his queries. I consider that, given the chain of correspondence between  him and Aviva,  it 
was reasonable  for him to assume his AA costs were still going  to be met by Aviva.  
Given that Aviva seems to have  failed to reach any clear agreement with Mr A on how long it 
would continue paying AA costs, I consider that Aviva should  reimburse  Mr A the amount he 
spent on AA between  29 July 2018  and 24 August  2018 which, according to Mr A, was 
£3,431.70. Given  that, until 29 July 2018, Aviva was also paying  parking and extra  mileage 
costs while  Mr A was in AA, I consider that it should also continue  paying these until 
24 August 2018.  According to Mr A, these  costs came to £217.60 and £36.80  respectively.
Ref: DRN38104403At the start of the claim,  Aviva was paying  Mr A a disturbance allowance  to compensate  him 
for the extra food costs  he would incur while in AA. However, it stopped paying this in 
June 2018 when Mr A moved to a serviced apartment which had kitchen facilities. Mr A has 
complained that these  facilities were  inadequate  for his familys needs and he therefore 
considers that Aviva  should have continued with the disturbance allowance. However, while  
the fridge-freezer in the AA may have been small, in my opinion  it was reasonable for Aviva 
to say there  was no longer any need for Mr A to incur additional food expenses and to stop 
its disturbance allowance payments.
Mr A has also claimed for other amounts. These include a fee for his project management  
and compensation  for stress and inconvenience.  I wouldnt  normally  expect an insurer  to pay 
a policyholder a project management fee for overseeing  their own contractor. I therefore 
dont consider Aviva needs to pay this. I furthermore  havent seen sufficient evidence to 
suggest the other claimed amounts, including the compensation  for stress and 
inconvenience, are reasonable.  I note that Aviva paid £300  compensation for the late 
payment of various  costs at the time of its final response letter.  I consider  that this 
compensation was fair so Im not going  to ask it to pay more.  I also consider that Aviva 
doesnt need to pay the other costs  and charges claimed by Mr A.
However, I note that in August 2018 Aviva told Mr A it would reimburse  him the amount hed 
spent on paint if he were  to provide evidence of this. Mr A didnt  subsequently  provide the 
evidence but in its final response  letter of February 2019, Aviva wrongly said that it had 
already paid Mr A for the paint. If Mr A wishes to claim for this cost, he should provide me 
with the relevant receipts in response  to this provisional decision.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Aviva said it had previously asked Mr A for evidence of the costs he had incurred and he 
hadnt provided this.
Mr A didnt respond. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not sure what costs  Aviva had previously asked  Mr A to provide evidence for. I cant see 
that it previously invited him to provide evidence of his AA costs after 29 July 2018,  nor can 
I see why it would have  asked for this evidence given that it hadnt accepted liability for any 
such costs after this date.
Nonetheless, Mr A hasnt supplied any evidence to show the amount  hed spent on paint 
even though I specifically asked him to provide this in his response to my provisional  
decision. This means I cant  reasonably  tell Aviva to pay him anything in respect of this. 
I have therefore  removed this from my award.
In respect of Mr As AA costs, he hasnt provided  evidence of this but, unlike the paint, 
I hadnt specifically  asked him to provide this to me in his response  to my provisional 
decision. I therefore remain of the opinion that Aviva  should reimburse him for these costs 
but subject to Mr A providing it with suitable  evidence. Bearing in mind that interest  is to be 
Ref: DRN38104404added to this award,  I consider that a deadline should be set for Mr A to provide this 
evidence which should be within  14 days of him accepting the final decision.
With these changes, Im satisfied that my provisional decision as to what  Aviva  should pay 
Mr A may become my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
subject to Mr A providing  it with suitable evidence within 14 days of advising us he 
accepts this final decision, reimburse him £3,431.70 for his AA costs between  29 July 
2018 and 24 August  2018;
reimburse Mr As parking costs of £217.60 and extra mileage  costs  of £36.80 over the 
same period; and
add interest to the above payments (AA, parking  and extra mileage costs) at the annual 
simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date Mr A incurred  the various costs to the date of 
settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3810440