K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited (trading as Jaguar Financial Service) (JFS) was not of satisfactory 
quality.
background 
Mr M entered into a HPA with JFS in November 2015 to acquire a new car. He says that he 
experienced issues from the outset and that after three years of complaining  it has now been  
accepted that there is a vibration on the car. However he says that he has been  told this is 
part of the design and he has to accept it. 
Mr M says this issue has caused him a lot of upset  and inconvenience as the vibration 
wasnt accepted  for such a long time.  He wants to reject the car and have his payments 
refunded.
JFS says that Mr M raised a previous complaint  in which the issue of the car vibrating was 
raised. It says this was first raised  in January  2017 and that no fault was found.  It says the 
vibration was then raised in January 2018 and that this was found to be due to the rear 
exhaust which was replaced at no cost to Mr M. It says that the car had been  driven  over 
20,000 miles by this time and there was nothing to suggest  the exhaust  wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
JFS says that the car has been tested  on several occasions but no fault has been found. It 
says that Mr M has been able to use the car as shown by his mileage and there  is no 
evidence to suggest the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Our investigator said that the issue Mr M had raised had not been able to be replicated. He 
didnt think it reasonable that the car be rejected or that a portion of the rentals be refunded. 
He did think that JFS should  pay Mr M £250  compensation for the frustration it caused  by 
delaying its submission of evidence to Mr M and this service.
JFS accepted our investigators view and his recommendation to pay Mr M £250 
compensation.
Mr M said that it had been confirmed  that the vibration of the car was a problem with its 
design. He said he had spent a lot of money on a car and shouldnt  have to suffer  it shaking  
while idling.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M entered into a HPA with JFS in 2015 to acquire a new car. Under  the regulations JFS 
can be held liable if the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.  In this case  
the car was new at acquisition and so it is reasonable that Mr M would expect it to be free 
from faults including minor defects.
Ref: DRN32312722Mr M raised  a number of issues  in a previous complaint. That complaint was closed but 
Mr M then said he had further evidence regarding the car vibrating. This decision relates to 
Mr Ms complaint about the vibration of the car.
Mr M has provided a copy of an email which he sent at end November 2016 in which  he 
complains, among other  things,  that the car vibrates while waiting at traffic lights. This was 
more than a year after acquisition, although  I note that Mr M says in the email  that his car 
had had to be returned on four occasions  by this time. However, given the issue and when it 
was raised with JFS I find it reasonable that further  evidence was required.
This issue was investigated and in the final response letter  that JFS sent dated August 2017 
(which dealt with a number of issues) it says that the vibration issue  hadnt been  able to be 
replicated. 
In March 2018, a vibration from the vehicle was investigated and it was found  that the rear 
exhaust was causing the issue. The part was replaced along with associated parts.  This was 
carried out at no cost to Mr M and so I would accept that this was a reasonable remedy to 
the issue. Given the mileage of the car at the time and that the issue  related to the exhaust, I 
do not find it unreasonable  to accept that this could have been  a wear and tear issue. As I 
have nothing to show a fault with the exhaust  at the point  of supply I do not find this, on its 
own, suggests the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply.
However Mr M says that the vibration issue has not been resolved. Mr M has provided a 
copy of an email following  an assessment by a technician  which  says that the car was tested 
alongside another car and the vibration when the car was idling was a condition that is on all 
vehicles and that by touching the accelerator  it goes  away.  There  was also a previous  
suggestion that the issue was a characteristic of the car. 
The car has been tested on several  occasions and no fault has been found. Therefore I do 
not find that I have  the evidence to say the car was faulty at the point of supply or that Mr M 
should be allowed  to reject it. 
Evidence has been provided in regard to the vibration saying it is part of the workings of the 
car. Other evidence  has said that on road tests no issue was found. On balance,  while  I 
accept that Mr M is upset by the car vibrating  while at traffic lights,  as there is no evidence  of 
a fault; the issue  hasnt  affected Mr Ms ability to use the car; and the issue appears  to be 
part of the workings of the car; I do not find that I can uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M has been inconvenienced by taking  his car to the garage on several  occasions  but as I 
understand he received a courtesy  car during these times he was kept mobile  and so I do 
not require his payments to be refunded for these periods.
JFS has accepted  that there were delays in providing information  and has agreed to pay 
£250 compensation for this. I find this reasonable.
Ref: DRN32312723my final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited  (trading as Jaguar Financial Service) should, as 
it has agreed, pay Mr M £250 compensation for the delays in regard to his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3231272