K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Ms T complain that Capital One Homeowner  Loans  Limited  (COHL) mis-sold 
them a single premium  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  when they applied for a 
joint loan in 2002. They say they were told they had to buy the PPI to get the loan.
background
Mr R and Ms T took a loan for £30,000 with an additional PPI premium of £7,347.
Mr R and Ms T complained to this service. Our adjudicator did not uphold their complaint. 
They explained to them that when this policy was sold in 2002, COHL  was a member  of the 
Mortgage Code  Compliance Board (MCCB) from 12 July 2002 to 30 October 2004. As a 
result, complaints  were dealt with by the Mortgage  Code  Arbitration Scheme  (MCAS). And 
the adjudicator  concluded  that we could only consider this complaint to the same  extent that 
MCAS wouldve been able to at the time of the sale.
The adjudicator decided they couldnt  uphold the complaint on the limited basis  which  
wouldve been covered by the MCAS. Mr R and Ms T disagreed  with the adjudicators  view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. I understand this will disappoint Mr R and Ms T but Ill 
explain why.
There are several questions for me to answer  in this case. They  are:
am I allowed to consider this complaint against  COHL?
how much of Mr R and Ms Ts complaint can I consider?
did COHL breach the mortgage code?
am I allowed to consider  this complaint against  COHL?
The sale and marketing  of insurance  etc, (including PPI) first became a regulated activity on 
14 January 2005.  That meant this Service could consider complaints about the sale of 
insurance products  from that date. This sale took place in 2002, which  was before that date.  
So COHL  was not and did not need  to be authorised to sell insurance.
We can look at PPI sales before 14 January 2005 for businesses  like COHL only when, and 
to the extent, they were covered by one of the schemes which existed before then  and 
known as former schemes. COHL was a member  of the MCCB from 12 July 2002 to         
30 October 2004. This means complaints about  it could  be considered by the MCAS - one of 
the former  schemes. But I can only consider  complaints  about  events  that happened  during 
this time if COHL then went  on to be covered  by our scheme. Our records show  that it was 
covered by our scheme from 31 October  2004. This means that Im able to consider 
complaints about  COHL  for events that happened during the time it was a member of the
MCCB.
Ref: DRN34108112how much  of Mr R and Ms Ts complaint can I consider?
As explained above, although this office was given permission to consider complaints where 
the business was a member of MCAS, were limited to only being able to consider the same 
issues that the MCAS scheme could. This means  that when considering Mr R and Ms Ts 
complaint against  COHL,  I can only consider  the points that MCAS couldve considered. 
Please see the extract  from the rules, below.
(5) Where the former scheme in question  is the MCAS Scheme [Mortgage Code Arbitration 
Scheme], a complainant  is not to be treated as eligible for the purposes of paragraph (2) (d) 
if 
(a) The complaint  does not relate to a breach  of the Mortgage Code;
(b) the complaint  concerns physical injury,  illness, nervous shock or their consequences;  or
(c) the complainant is claiming  a sum of money  that exceeds £100,000.
Mr R and Ms Ts complaint  isnt caught by (b) and (c) above. So I need to consider whether 
or not it relates to a breach of the Mortgage Code  before I can continue.
The Mortgage Code  was mainly concerned with mortgages and secured lending. There  was 
only a very small part of the code that related to insurance. This can be found in section 3.2 
of the code and it said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the 
following:
A description of any insurance service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and 
whose responsibility  it is to ensure that it is taken  out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by 
us;
A general  description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
So I can consider  Mr R and Ms Ts complaint but only in relation to the specific points above. 
This means  I can consider the elements  of their complaint in which they say the insurance 
was shown as compulsory and there was no general  description of costs.
I do understand that Mr R and Ms T have  raised several points about the sale of the policy 
(for instance that it wasnt needed  as they had employee benefits). But for the reasons 
mentioned above  Im not allowed to consider anything that isnt covered  by the four points 
above.
did COHL breach the mortgage code?
From what  Ive seen Mr R and Ms T were sold the policy via the telephone and post.      
They specifically complain  it wasnt made clear that the policy was optional  and that they 
were told they needed  to take out the PPI in order for the loan to be approved.  
Unsurprisingly, due to the time that has passed  there isnt any telephone call recording or 
telephone call script I can listen to or refer to  and that means  I dont know what exactly  
Ref: DRN34108113was said during the telephone conversation. So Ive looked at the paperwork from the time of 
the sale.
Mr R and Ms T told us theyre  unhappy  because the sale paperwork has already been filled 
in with ticks in the boxes  being computer generated. I agree that some parts of the loan 
application had details of their application printed. I dont think thats  unusual  given it was 
most likely created during the telephone  conversation. So I think  the application form was 
completed by COHL during or immediately after the phone call with Mr and Ms T. I think the 
form was then sent to Mr R and Ms T to sign. And even if they didnt fill in its details, they 
would have had the opportunity to look over its contents before  signing it.
Ive also looked  at the credit agreement and see it contains a section with the heading 
Payment Protection. Under that heading is the sentence, You have opted for the Payment 
Protection Plan and a yes and no option.  A tick was placed in the yes box. A further tick 
was placed in the box alongside joint life and single accident, sickness  and involuntary 
unemployment. The credit agreement also described the premium  as, Optional Payment 
Protection Premium. Also, Mr R and Ms T signed the credit agreement  to confirm they were 
happy to proceed  on the basis set out in it.
I understand Mr R and Ms T have said the boxes were already  ticked when they received 
the credit  agreement and that they called  COHL to question it. They  say it was at this point 
they were told that if they removed the PPI theyd need to reapply and the loan would be 
declined.
I accept that its possible  things happened as Mr R and Ms T have described. But I have to 
bear in mind  these events  took place nearly  17 years ago and memories do fade over time. 
From the documents Ive seen  I think  it is more likely  that optional nature of the policy  was 
made clear and they chose to accept it.
Ive also seen that the credit agreement both set out the insurance premium and the total 
monthly repayments for the loan. According to the Mortgage Code, I only have to see there  
was a general description of costs, fees or other charges. I think the form shows  the general 
description of the PPI costs which Mr R and Ms T were expected to pay. And I think this 
satisfies the mortgage code  so I dont think theres been a breach here.
So, taking everything  into account I dont think COHL breached the code.  I therefore  dont 
uphold Mr R and Ms Ts complaint. Im sorry to disappoint them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Capital Homeowner Loans
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34108114
Ref: DRN3410811