K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont  refund to him the 
money that he paid for a shower at an exhibition. His complaint is made against American 
Express under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
background
Mr P used his American Express  credit  card in September 2016 to pay a £1,000 deposit for 
a shower with a total cost of £1,750 at an exhibition.  He says that he tried to cancel his order  
but was told by the supplier that his order couldnt  be cancelled. He claimed a refund from 
American Express under section 75. But he wasnt satisfied with its response so complained 
to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  that 
thered been a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so she didnt believe 
that American Express did anything wrong  in declining  Mr Ps claim. And she said that she 
didnt believe that the provisions of the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and 
Additional Charges) Regulations  2013  apply to his purchase.
Mr P has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that the supplier  had a stall at an exhibition which wasnt  an immovable retail premises or a 
permanent place of business and it hadnt advertised or presented the stall as a usual place 
of business. He refers to a European Union directive  and case law which he says shows that 
the contract  was an off-premises contract  so, under the regulations,  he has 14 days after 
the day on which the goods  come  into his physical possession to cancel his order and obtain 
a refund. And he says that American  Express is incorrect  in stating that the regulations dont 
apply to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ps complaint about  American  
Express, I must be satisfied that theres  been a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by 
the supplier of the shower and that American  Expresss response to his claim under section 
75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ps claim under section 
75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Mr P agreed to buy a shower from the supplier at an exhibition  in September 2016. He paid 
a £1,000 deposit using  his American  Express  credit  card and signed  a sales  invoice. 
Immediately above  his signature it says:  I have read and understand the conditions  
overleaf; and those  conditions include a condition that:  orders  placed at exhibitions  
cannot be cancelled  by the Customers for any reason.
The sales  invoice shows that there  was zero  VAT, a 25% discount and no delivery charge. 
So I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr P obtained a special show  deal that 
wouldnt have been available  in other circumstances. And I consider that it was the suppliers 
intention that the order  couldnt  be cancelled.
Ref: DRN35532392Mr P says that the supplier had agreed  that his order could be cancelled  but theres no 
mention of that on the sales invoice. And the sales invoice does refer to Mr Ps request that 
the shower be delivered in six to twelve months. 
Mr P also says that the regulations give him up to 14 days  after hes received  the shower to 
cancel his order. But American Express says that its only liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier  and that the regulations arent a contractual right,  the 
breach of which would give rise to any liability under section 75.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the contract could be cancelled 
or that theres been  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in these 
circumstances. Nor am I persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
American Express to refund to Mr P the money  that he paid for the shower - or to take any 
other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3553239