K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt administer their 
mortgage as agreed,  meaning  their fixed rate products end on different dates. They ask that 
Halifax waives the early  repayment charge (ERC) so that they can re-mortgage elsewhere. 
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2016. They  took out additional  lending  in 
2017. Most of their original mortgage  loan and additional lending was on the staff variable 
rate. They agreed  fixed rate products for the remainder.
From late 2017 the staff variable rate was no longer available as Mr T was no longer 
employed within the Halifax group. The parts of the loan that had been on the staff variable 
rate were  switched to a fixed rate product that applied until January 2020.  
Mr and Mrs T say they were given a guarantee that the products would all end at the same  
time. They say Halifax  should waive the ERC  so that they can re-mortgage with another  
lender. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Halifax  sent 
a product transfer offer to Mr and Mrs T in October 2017. This set out the terms of the fixed  
rate product  they agreed would replace the staff variable  rate  including  that it ended in 
January 2020.  The product transfer  offer also set out the dates  that the fixed  rate products 
applying to their other mortgage accounts  would  end (one in August 2018  and the other in 
July 2019). 
Our adjudicator said there was no evidence Halifax had offered a guarantee that the 
products on Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage accounts would all end at the same time.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage is made  up of four sub accounts. This was due to them  taking out 
additional borrowing  in 2017. It was also due to part of the original mortgage and part of the 
additional borrowing  being on the staff variable rate. Halifax provided copies of the mortgage 
offers setting  out the terms of the products that applied to each  sub account. Until late 2017 
Mr and Mrs T had two sub accounts on the staff variable rate and two with fixed  rate 
products: one ending in July 2019  and one ending in August 2018. 
When Mr T left Halifaxs employment he was no longer entitled to the staff variable rate. 
Mr and Mrs T met with a mortgage adviser. They agreed a fixed  rate product for the parts of 
the mortgage that had been on the staff variable rate.
Ref: DRN33199602Mr and Mrs T say Halifax agreed that all of their products would end at the same time. The 
evidence they have to support this is their own recollection of the discussion with the 
mortgage adviser. The mortgage adviser  says she cant remember  this discussion. While 
Mr T says customers should be given the benefit of the doubt, I dont think thats  reasonable 
here. The product  transfer offer is written evidence of what Mr and Mrs T agreed.  
Halifax provided a copy of the product  transfer  offer sent to Mr and Mrs T in October 2017. 
This sets out the date that the new fixed rate product will end (January 2020). It also sets out 
the dates that the existing fixed rate products will end (July 2019 and August 2018). So I 
think Mr and Mrs T were  made aware that the products would end at different times. The 
mortgage offer also set out the ERCs  that would apply if the loan was repaid before the fixed  
rate products ended.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs T wanted  the products to end at the same time. But in 
October 2017 they had two fixed rate products in place. Theyd have had to pay the ERCs  to 
exit these products  or agree that the standard variable rate would apply to the remainder of 
the loan until the fixed rate products ended. Instead, Mr and Mrs T agreed to a new fixed 
rate product  for the parts of the loan that had previously  benefitted  from the staff rate. 
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs T aware  of when each  product ends  and that this wasnt  all 
on the same  date. When Mr and Mrs T accepted the product transfer offer they agreed  to its 
terms  including  the ERC.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to waive  the ERC 
if Mr and Mrs T re-mortgage while it applies.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3319960