K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny (ECI) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about 6 loans ECI provided to Mr H between  November 2016  and June 
2017. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan  Number Date  Taken Out Loan Amount
1 06/11/2016 £2,000
2 06/12/2016 £100
3 12/03/2017 £300
4 16/04/2017 £100
5 30/04/2017 £200
6 07/06/2017 £200
Mr H said the ECI had not carried out enough  affordability checks  before  granting the loans. 
He said the loans were  unaffordable for him and that he was in a worse financial position 
after getting the loans.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought  the loans from loan 5 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. ECI disagreed with our adjudicators opinion about the complaint 
and asked for an Ombudsmans  decision. ECI later said it would agree to uphold  loan 6. This 
offer came in just before  the file was passed  to me to review  so it wasnt  put to Mr H. But I 
dont think its a fair way to resolve  the complaint and so Ive issued my decision. 
None of the parties made any comments about  loans  1 to 4 being rejected. So I dont  need  
to look at loans  1 to 4 again. In this decision,  I will be looking at loans 5 and 6  although I 
will look at all the loans and at the full borrowing history to assess the case  fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
ECI needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that ECI should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN36411962the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that ECI was required to establish whether 
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 5 would most likely  have shown  
that Mr H was not managing his money well. I say this because, by this stage, he still had 
three loans  outstanding with ECI. I think a proportionate check  would have shown Mr H 
would not have been able to sustain the loan repayments for this loan and for others coming 
after it. So I dont think ECI should have given  loan 5 to Mr H.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Hs lending history  with ECI, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which ECI should reasonably have  seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so ECI should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point ECI ought to have realised Mr H was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr H had taken out 6 loans within 7 months. So ECI ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr H was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Hs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Hs first loan was for £2,000 and loan 6 was for £200. At this point ECI ought to 
have known that Mr H was not likely  borrowing to meet  a temporary  shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Ref: DRN36411963Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed ECI. Loan 6 was taken  
out 7 months  after Mr Hs first. And - although it wasnt  for a larger amount - Mr H 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to ECI over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr H lost out from loan 6 onwards  because:
Loan 6 had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The number of loans  and the short length of time over which Mr H borrowed was 
likely to have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit 
and so kept him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and ECI should  put things right.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
Elevate Credit International Limited shouldnt have given Mr H loans 5 and 6. If Elevate 
Credit International  Limited has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these  back if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Elevate Credit  International Limited  is not 
able to buy the debts back, then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the 
results outlined below.
A - Add together  the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  Elevate 
Credit International  Limited has already refunded.
B - Calculate 8% per year simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made  the payments, 
to the date the complaint  is settled.
C - Remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mr H as though they had been  repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr H having  made  overpayments  then 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  refund these overpayments with 8% per year 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Elevate  Credit  International Limited  should  
then refund the amounts  calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D - If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Elevate 
Credit International  Limited has already written-off.  If this results in a surplus  then the surplus 
should be paid to Mr H. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Elevate Credit 
International Limited should try to agree an affordable repayment  plan with Mr H. Elevate  
Credit International  Limited shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of the principal it 
has already written-off.
E - Remove any adverse  payment information  recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to 
loan 5. 
Ref: DRN36411964The overall pattern  of Mr Hs borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded  about 
loan 6 is adverse,  so Elevate Credit  International Limited should also remove loan 6 entirely 
from Mr Hs credit file. Elevate Credit  International Limited does not have to remove loan 6 
from Mr Hs credit file until it has been  repaid, but it should still remove  any adverse 
information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit  International Limited to deduct  tax from 
this interest. Elevate  Credit International Limited should give Mr H a certificate showing how 
much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3641196