K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W complains about an early  repayment  charge (ERC) on her mortgage with National
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
Background
In October  2015 Mrs W switched the rate of her buy to let mortgage with NatWest.  The rate
switch was discussed in branch on 01 October 2015  and then accepted by telephone on
02 October 2015.
In April 2019, Mrs W says that she wanted to redeem the mortgage and asked NatWest for a
redemption statement. When the redemption statement arrived, it showed an ERC  charge of
£979.23  that she says she was never  made aware of.
Mrs W raised a complaint with NatWest,  but it wasnt  upheld.  It said the ERC is listed on the
offer document that it sent to Mrs W. She then accepted the offer over the telephone, having
confirmed shed checked the document.
As Mrs W remained unhappy, she brought  a complaint to our service.  Our investigator
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  it should be upheld. He said the ERC was clearly
detailed in the offer document and it was made clear to Mrs W before she accepted the
mortgage.
Mrs W responded to the investigators view. She said that she hadnt  been sent a copy of the
offer document, and the only letter she had was the rate change confirmation sent around a
month later. She also said that there  was no mention  of the ERC  on the call she had with the
advisor, and the key facts document the advisor referred to was a different document to that
of the offer agreement.
As the investigator  didnt change their view,  the complaint has been  passed to me to issue  a
final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February  2020.  This is what  I said
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs W feels very strongly about the fact the ERC wasnt explained to her in the
meeting she had with the NatWest advisor  in the branch on 01 October 2015  or that she
was sent any paperwork  detailing it before she accepted the mortgage on 02 October 2015.
The FCAs general principles mean  that a lenders communication should be clear, fair and
not misleading in regard  to ERCs.  We would  expect an ERC to be brought  to the attention  of
the borrower  usually  by it being  clear  and reasonably prominent in the mortgage offer and
agreement.
Although I cant say with any certainty what was discussed in the branch meeting, due to the
limited notes made, I can see that the mortgage  offer document  clearly sets out the ERC.
I understand Mrs W says she didnt receive  this document, and there has been some
Ref: DRN33281612conflicting information from the business  regarding how this was sent. But what  I have to
decide is based on what Ive seen; whether I think its most  likely it was received.
Mrs W has said a number of times in her testimony  that she wasnt  given any paperwork to
take away from the branch meeting. She went on to say after the investigators view that she
was given a key facts  document in the branch meeting on 01 October 2015. Mrs W sent us a
copy of the key facts  document, but this was dated  02 November 2015 and was a letter
confirming the rate switch. So Im satisfied this couldnt have been  given to her in the branch
meeting and it follows that I find her original testimony most plausible, that she wasnt  given
any paperwork.
NatWest has confirmed  that it has no record of what document  was discussed in the branch
meeting on 01 October 2015.
Given the timings of the meeting and the acceptance of the offer, Im satisfied  that it was not
possible for the mortgage offer document  to be sent in the post. There  was around 24 hours
between meeting and the call Mrs W made into the business, so it simply wasnt  possible.
NatWest has told us that following the branch meeting  it emailed the offer document  to
Mrs W, but it hasnt  been able to provide evidence of the email or an audit trail to show  it
was sent. Considering the importance  of the offer document, Id expect some information  to
confirm it was sent.
Mrs W does speak to a NatWest advisor when  she accepts the rate switch  and, had the
email or offer document been mentioned in the call, I think  there would be more  certainty
that it was sent,  as its likely Mrs W would have confirmed shed received and read it. But
there is no mentioned  of the email and the advisor  doesnt ask Mrs W if shes  received or
seen the offer document.  The advisor does mention a key facts document,  something  Mrs W
said she went through in the meeting the previous day.
NatWest has said the advisor made a mistake  and referred to the offer document  when she
talked about the key facts document on the call - but Im simply not convinced that this is
correct. And even if I was to be, I still wouldnt be satisfied that her communication was clear,
fair and not misleading.
NatWest said it sent Mrs W a letter  in November 2016 that highlighted that her mortgage
would incur an ERC if over 10% of the balance was paid in a calendar  year.  Mrs W is
complaining that she wasnt  told at the point of sale about the ERC, this letter was sent some
time after this.
Taking all of the information Ive seen by both parties into account, Im not satisfied Mrs W
was sent or had sight of the mortgage offer document before accepting  the rate switch. The
adviser had a duty to check she had been through everything and agreed to the terms of the
offer and I dont find this was done. And it follows that because of this, Im not convinced  the
ERC had been  discussed or had been drawn  to Mrs Ws attention.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision.
NatWest didnt respond.
Ref: DRN33281613My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NatWest didnt respond  and Mrs W agrees with my decision, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
National Westminster Bank Plc should  waive the ERC and also refund  the interest paid on
the mortgage payments from the point  Mrs W requested the settlement figure to the point the
settlement payment is made. The settlement should  be made within  60 days of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3328161