K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that NewDay Ltd failed to make an effective  chargeback in respect of 
undelivered goods.
background 
In November 2018 Mrs C ordered a toy from a website costing £133.14 and she paid for it 
using her NewDay credit card. Shortly afterwards she discovered information that suggested 
the website wasnt  genuine. The toy wasnt delivered and she asked for a refund.  She also 
contacted NewDay  and was told to wait 10 days to see if a refund was received. Later the 
website was taken  down and she contacted NewDay.  
It made  a chargeback  on the basis a refund wasnt received  although it said it had no 
evidence that a refund had been  offered  by the merchant. The chargeback was rejected by 
the merchant  which  supplied evidence of delivery of the toy. NewDay rejected her complaint,  
but paid her £10 for the inconvenience she had suffered.
Mrs C brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. He noted the chargeback  had been incorrectly 
raised as refund not received rather than under the category of goods  not received.  He 
noted that the business realised this wrong, but failed  to make a second chargeback  under  
the correct category.
NewDay say that as the merchant had supplied proof of delivery it would have challenged a 
second chargeback,  but the investigator  said that he couldnt  say that is what  would have 
happened and suggested NewDay refund the transaction costs and pay an additional sum of 
compensation of £40.
NewDay didnt agree and said that given there was proof of delivery  it shouldnt  have to 
refund the transaction cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of it the order was processed and the toy was delivered.  However,  a little 
background checking shows that there have been  many instances of this merchant, which  
was based overseas, failing to deliver  goods and allegedly forging delivery documents.  I 
have examined  the delivery document and see that the depot from which it was to be 
delivered by lorry to Mrs C was in Serbia which  gives me cause to doubt it is genuine.
I am reasonably satisfied  that Mrs C didnt receive  the goods  she ordered and a chargeback  
should have been made on that basis. Given the background information of the merchant 
which Mrs C shared with NewDay I think it would have been  sensible to have checked with 
the courier as to whether the delivery  note was genuine.
Even if a chargeback  wasnt pursued  I am not aware that NewDay explored  a claim under 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  which I suspect would have  been  successful. 
Therefore I consider  this complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN30438592my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold tis complaint and I direct NewDay  Ltd to credit  Mrs Cs 
account with £133.40 and refund any interest  she have incurred for this transaction. It should 
also pay her additional  compensation for distress  and inconvenience of £40.Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my 
decision before  24 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3043859