K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc refused to change  her money 
into Euros without ID. She then had to go elsewhere  to change the money and got a worse 
deal. She also says that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc failed to take her complaint 
even though she contacted them on many occasions. 
Ms L would like compensation for the worse deal that she had to take. She would also like to 
be compensated for the distress  and inconvenience that she has suffered. 
background
Ms L holds  an account with Marks & Spencer  Financial  Services Plc (M&S Financial 
Services). She was aware  that she could get preferential exchange rates for Euros. So, she 
transferred £500  into her account in order to take advantage of these preferential rates. 
On 18 January 2018, Ms L visited an M&S branch to buy £500 worth of Euros. She was 
offered an amount of Euros which she accepted. At that point, she was asked for some ID to 
complete the transaction. She didnt have  any so the transaction wasnt  possible in the M&S  
branch. 
Ms L went to a different exchange  bureau  where she received an amount of Euros  that was 
less than the preferential rate at M&S.
Ms L tried to complain to M&S  but they refused  to recognise her complaint. 
Ms L came to us. 
Our investigator contacted M&S Financial Services to find out if a final response letter had 
been issued by them. 
M&S Financial Services claimed  that they had already dealt with the complaint in April 2017.  
They said that Ms L was out of time to come to us and they wouldnt give permission for us 
to look at the case. 
Our investigator found that the previous final response letter issued  in April 2017 related to a 
different complaint. Even  though the current circumstances  were similar, Ms L was, in fact, 
bringing a different complaint. She wasnt out of time to bring  the complaint to us. 
On considering the complaint, our investigator  found  that Ms L had complained to M&S  
Retail Services rather than M&S Financial Services. Because of this, he couldnt consider 
that part of Ms Ls complaint as the two are separate legal entities. 
He found that M&S Financial Services had done nothing wrong in asking  Ms L for ID. He 
thought Ms L shouldve  been aware that ID would be required.  
Ms L wasnt happy with this outcome  so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36299572Im afraid Ms L wont be happy with my decision.  I dont think  that M&S Financial Services  
did anything wrong.  I will explain why. 
I think that the complaint that Ms L made to M&S Retail Services  cant be looked  at by us for 
the reasons that our investigator gave. It is a separate legal entity  to M&S Financial 
Services. I do understand that this isnt necessarily something that Ms L wouldve  been  
aware of. But it stands that I cant look at this bit of Ms Ls complaint. 
I think that M&S Financial  Services were  entitled  to ask for ID. In taking anti fraud measures, 
it seems sensible to me that they did ask for ID. 
On top of this, their website makes it clear  to consumers that they should  bring  ID if they are 
going to exchange money. Also, Ms L wouldve been aware that she needed ID because this 
was required when  she changed money  in 2017. 
I dont think that M&S Financial Services acted unfairly or unreasonably  in requesting ID. 
my final decision
I think that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc were  justified  in asking for ID. Also,  I 
think that Ms L shouldve  been aware that ID might be required.  So, I wont  ask 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3629957