K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank plc closed his bank  account and placed  a CIFAS marker
against his name. CIFAS is the UKs  fraud alert service.
background
In November 2017 Lloyds received notification from another bank that it was trying  to make
a payment of more  than £4,700 to Mr Fs account.  The transfer had been blocked. Lloyds
contacted Mr F, who said that he wasnt aware  of the credit.  He said too that he had lost his 
bank card a few days earlier, although he didnt  think  anyone knew his PIN.
After reviewing the position, Lloyds decided to close Mr Fs account and placed a CIFAS
marker against his name. In summary, the bank  thought he knew  more  about the payment
than he was prepared  to say. And its investigations  had shown that the payment was
fraudulent  in the sense that it had been made without the authority of the sending  banks
customer.
Mr F wasnt happy with the banks  decision  and referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators  considered it. She took the view however that Lloyds  should  not 
have logged the CIFAS  marker against  Mr Fs name. She didnt believe that the bank had 
adequately shown any involvement on Mr Fs part. It hadnt  retained robust  evidence  to 
show that he was aware  of the fraudulent payment which was to be made to his account. 
She thought  Lloyds should arrange for the CIFAS  marker to be removed.
Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  view and asked  that an ombudsman review  the
complaint. I did that and, because I didnt agree with the investigators view, issued a 
provisional decision. I thought that Lloyds did have  sufficient evidence to suggest that Mr F 
had been aware  that his card and PIN would be used to withdraw the fraudulent credit to his 
account. Mr F didnt accept that and asked that I review the case  again  and issue  a final 
decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If a bank or other financial  institution  is to place  a CIFAS marker against  an individuals
name, it should have  evidence  that would enable it to report  the matter to the police. That
isnt to say it must report it, or that the police must investigate, but a mere  suspicion of
wrongdoing isnt generally sufficient.
Mr F says that he knew nothing about the fraudulent payment into his account. But whoever 
placed the money in his account  expected  to be able to withdraw it. As I indicated  in my 
provisional decision, the most obvious  person  in that position was Mr F himself. But I went 
on to discuss whether someone  else could have had access  to the account  without Mr Fs 
authority. 
Mr F said that his bank card had gone  missing. I note though  that he hadnt  reported it 
missing, and neither  has he explained how that might have happened. But, even if I accept  
what he says about that, theres no explanation  of how someone who had taken or found  his 
card could have known his PIN. The PIN or other security information  would have been 
Ref: DRN37192712needed to withdraw  the money.  Mr F hasnt mentioned any attempts to obtain security  
information that would have enabled  a third party to access his account. 
I think it most unlikely that Mr Fs account would have been targeted to receive fraudulent  
funds unless the fraudster knew they could retrieve funds from it. Someone who had Mr Fs 
bank card alone wouldnt have been  in that position. It follows in my view, therefore, that Mr 
F either expected  to be able to withdraw the funds himself or that hed put someone  else in a 
position where they could do so. And theres no real doubt that he knew very much more  
about the payment than he has been prepared to tell the bank or this service. 
For these reasons, I think that Lloyds was justified in recording the CIFAS  marker in the way
it did.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr F to accept  or reject  my decision before 27 February 2020
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3719271