K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the fee charged for the account held with Citibank Europe  Plc 
(Citibank) was significantly increased in June 2016  without his consent. He would like the 
fees refunded.
background
Mr H has held various accounts with Citibank over the years, including a Citigold  current  
account, which has attracted fees and came with various benefits,  along the lines of a 
packaged bank  account.
In 2016 Citibank decided to increase the fee for this account from £25 to £75 per month, and 
Mr H noticed how much more he was paying  when  reviewing his statements the following 
year.
When he complained  to Citibank, it explained  that it had sent him an email ahead of 
increasing the fee, with an option to reject the change, but that it had not heard from him. He 
said that he hadnt received the email,  and that he expected to be told about  such  a 
significant increase  in a different way. He also felt that he should have been contacted by his 
Citibank relationship manager.
Having reviewed the evidence, the adjudicators  didnt think  Citibank had done  anything it 
wasnt allowed to, and so didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He doesnt accept that and has 
asked an ombudsman to look at his case.
In this decision I am only considering the way Citibank handled the 2016 fee increase.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to say that I am aware how strongly Mr H feels  about  this case, and how 
egregious he considers  the fee increase  to be. However, that decision is a commercial one 
that Citibank is fully entitled  to make.
What I need to decide is whether Citibank  did what  was necessary to let Mr H know  about 
the change, and allow him to reject  it.
under the Terms and Conditions of the account,  what was Citibank required to do?
Mr H feels that his relationship manager should  have got in touch personally  to let him know 
about the fee increase.  I can understand that feeling, but ultimately, Citibank needed  to 
comply with the Terms and Conditions of the account in communicating with Mr H. I have 
reviewed them and particularly note the following clauses:
36.2 Citibank may change any fees or charges payable by You for the day-to-day  running 
of Your Account and will tell You of any change by sending  You an e-mail, secure 
internet messaging or separate written notice  at least 30 days  in advance. Citibank 
Ref: DRN35608762will tell You of the charge for any other  service or product before Citibank provides 
You with that service  or product and at any time You ask.
30.1 If Citibank sends  any notice  or other communication to the last registered address 
Citibank has for You. Citibank may consider it as having been received by You five 
Business Days after posting  (mail)  or one Business Day after transmission (telex, fax 
or electronic  link).
So it wasnt  required to communicate this increase via a relationship manager, but of course 
it did need to let Mr H know  at least 30 days before the change  in June 2016. This sort of 
communication is typically referred  to as a Notice of Variation (NoV). So, did it do that?
did Citibank let Mr H know about the fee increase?
At this point, I would  like to emphasise that my role is to decide  on the balance of 
probabilities what  I think  it likely  to have happened. And I find the evidence  in this case  on 
this pivotal point  to be particularly finely balanced.
On the one hand, Citibank  has managed  to produce some documentary  evidence to support 
its position that an email  was sent to Mr H in April 2016 containing the information  I would  
expect to see. But I find that the evidence provision has been  comparatively weak for this 
type of case. Citibank  has explained that it does  not send out these communications  itself,  
but uses a sub-contracted marketing agency  to do it. That third partys  systems are 
somewhat complex,  and Citibank staff dont appear to be especially familiar with them. So it 
hasnt been easy  to establish  a clear and strong audit trail.
On the other hand, Mr H has been  emphatic and thorough in his testimony,  and is insistent 
that no email was sent or received. He tells me that he has checked all the relevant email 
folders to see if he accidentally deleted any messages, and his commitment to this complaint 
is clear.  I have  absolutely no reason to doubt his genuineness.
Having thought very carefully about  the available evidence, on balance, I find that it is more  
likely than not that the email in question was sent by Citibank. I reach  that finding as a result  
of the documentary evidence in the case, which I will summarise.
I have been given screenshots and bank records which  demonstrate a number of things,  
which I will set out here:
that Mr H was identified as being part of a particular batch  of clients who needed to 
be given a NoV, and an email  was sent to him that didnt bounce  back (i.e. show 
any problems with delivery);
that on 20 April 2016 an email was sent to Mr H which had a particular letter 
number (that is, a template sent out to a large  number  of customers  at the same  
time); and
that the letter in question, and so numbered,  did set out clearly  that a fee increase  
would take effect in respect of the Citigold account  on 20 June 2016.
The letter starts by explaining the information  it contains; sets out what the new criteria and 
fee will be for Citigold;  and asks customers to contact their relationship manager should  they 
not wish to continue  holding a Citigold account  on those new terms.
Ref: DRN35608763Mr H says that unless Citibank can produce  the actual email personally addressed and sent 
to him, then I ought to find in his favour. But I have to consider all the evidence presented to 
me, and note that it isnt uncommon  for businesses to use templates when contacting  large 
numbers of customers. So, ultimately, this case rests on whether I think  the audit trail 
provided is sufficient to make me think its more likely than not that the relevant NoV was 
sent to Mr H by Citibank. And Ive explained why I am persuaded on that point.
Overall, the evidence persuades me that Citibank acted as required under the Terms and 
Conditions of the account  and I havent  been  given any evidence to show that conduct 
would be either  unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances  of this case. So I have  no 
grounds to find (under my particular  remit of fair and reasonable) that Citibank ought to have 
departed from those Terms and Conditions.
It therefore follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Citibank doesnt have to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3560876