K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained at the delay in receiving the proceeds of the sale of two investments 
from Invesco Fund Managers Limited  in May 2017.  She needed the funds  at that time to 
purchase a property and has suffered financial losses because she needed to make 
alternative arrangements to fund the purchase and the pound sterling/euro exchange rate 
had collapsed when  she converted the proceeds to euros on 12 June 2017 and 7 August 
2017 respectively.           
Specifically, she says that:
she first contacted Invesco in February 2017 to for its requirements to sell the 
investments and to transfer the funds  to her UK bank account  and was given to 
understand that the process would take two-to-three days;
it was evident  she resided  abroad, but Invesco didnt warn  her until the investment 
was sold on 9 May that more  time would be needed  to complete money laundering 
requirements;
when she provided the relevant documentation by mid-May, stressing the urgency of 
the matter, Invesco confirmed in a telephone  conversation  on 25 May,  and in a letter 
dated 1 June, that it had received all the necessary paperwork. She, therefore, 
expected an immediate direct transfer of funds to her UK bank account; 
instead, she found that Invesco  was intending to post the proceeds to her by cheque 
and a delay occurred while the cheque  was cancelled  and a BACS  transfer arranged. 
She received  the proceeds in her UK bank account on 9 June, one month after her 
investment had been sold;
Mrs C asked for two investments to be surrendered and Invesco sold only one. The 
other investment  wasnt sold until August 2017  after she needed to repeat the money  
laundering and identification  process  again;
her surrender requests were handled  by two different  teams who didnt appear  to 
share information.  
 
Altogether, Mrs C believes  that she has suffered a loss of around 9,000  euros  due to the 
delay in receiving  the proceeds of her investments and the reduction  in the pounds 
sterling/euro exchange  rate that followed.
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  in which  I concluded that, all things 
considered, once Invesco had received its requirements to make payment to Mrs Cs UK 
bank account,  it ought to done so by 25 May 2017.
Thereafter, it took three days to be converted to euros and paid in to her overseas bank 
account because  a weekend let immediately  after funds were deposited in pounds sterling.
Had funds been  paid in to this account on 25 May 2017, I thought it was reasonable to 
suppose that these could have been converted and transferred  to her overseas bank 
account the following day, i.e. on 26 May 2017.
But Mrs C only transferred £60,000  to her overseas  account immediately.  She didnt transfer 
a further £45,000 for another eight weeks because she says she had no immediate use for 
this money (as it was paid to her after she was committed to purchasing  the property and 
she held  out for a better exchange rate). And, there was still a sum of £23,500 unaccounted  
for.
Ref: DRN36567592So, I felt Mrs C should receive compensation for any loss she has suffered for the total sum 
of £128,500 not being deposited  in her UK bank account on 25 May 2017 and then not being  
able to transfer £105,000  of that sum as euros to her overseas bank account on 26 May 
2017. The redress methodology  I proposed is set out in the provisional decision,  a copy of 
which is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
I invited both Mrs C and Invesco to comment on my provisional view. 
developments
In response, Mrs C said that she wasnt entirely  satisfied with the outcome. 
She says she prepared in good time for the surrendered funds to be transferred to her UK 
bank account  in early  May 2017  by contacting  Invesco in February  2017  for its requirements. 
It was Invescos responsibility to confirm  exactly how the transaction could be completed 
efficiently, given the information it held of her and her accounts. This it failed to do when it 
received her instructions to sell in early  May 2017. 
Mrs C maintains that the funds could have been transferred to her UK bank account by 
9 May 2017  and shes made exchange  rate losses of around 9,000  euros  due to the delay.
Invesco replied to say that it agreed  Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld and that the service 
she received was very poor. It regrets the trouble and upset she has been caused  by the 
incomplete and incorrect  information she received throughout the process. It also agreed  my 
proposal for redress, except in respect of the following issues:
it doesnt believe it should pay the exchange  rate loss on £45,000 from 12 June to 
7 August 2017, or interest on that loss, as Mrs C received these funds on 9 June 
2017 and could have converted them to euros on 12 June 2017.
Invesco received all the required verification documentation on 23 May 2017 and, if it 
hadnt made any errors,  Mrs C would  have received the funds by 30 May 2017, 
rather than on 25 May 2017 as I suggested. It, therefore, proposes to use the 
exchange rate prevailing on 31 May 2017, rather than on 26 May 2017, to calculate  
her losses.  In fact, this outcome is slightly more favourable  to Mrs C;
all redress  will need to be paid in pounds sterling as it doesnt  have the facility  to 
make payment in euros.
Also, Invesco disagreed with Mrs Cs version of events, as follows:
when she contacted Invesco in February 2017,  it set out its requirements  that the 
funds would be sent to her by cheque within three business  days, the documentation  
it would  need  to pay the funds  into her bank account  and verification of her name and 
address;
it would  have been sensible to have checked  Mrs Cs status when she made her 
enquiry, particularly as Invesco was aware  she didnt live in the UK. If so, it could  
have explained  to her in February  2017  that it would need  to verify her name and 
address, and the information it needed from her to do so;
when Mrs C instructed Invesco to sell on 6 May 2017, it requested verification of her 
name and address  on 8 May. But the voided  cheque came from her husbands bank 
account, and not from hers, and she was notified  on 11 May that this couldnt be 
accepted and so payment would be made by cheque;
Ref: DRN36567593On 17 May, Mrs C confirmed to Invesco that she didnt wish to receive a cheque.  It 
received all the relevant documentation  to verify her bank account and her name  and 
identity on 23 May 2017 and the funds were  released on 24 May.  She ought  to have 
received the funds  three business  days after that, i.e. on 30 May 2017;
As it was, she received the funds by cheque,  and on 9 June,  rather than on 30 May;
contrary to what  Mrs C has said, Invesco did sell all her investments at this time, 
which were valued at £128,417 and this can be verified by her bank statement it 
enclosed. So, she didnt  need  to repeat the verification process. Verification of her 
name and address  was handled by one team and that of her bank account by 
another, which explains why she received incomplete information  when she called on 
25 May and, again, on 30 May; 
its final response letter in June 2017 didnt  adequately compensate  her for her 
losses;
Invesco doesnt  have the facility  to pay Mrs C in euros.
In conclusion, it accepts  it could have handled this matter much better and its request for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman was premature.
I arranged for Mrs C to receive  Invescos  response, and its redress calculation, for her 
comments. She replied  to say that:
she wanted to re-state that, but for Invescos errors, she would be much better-off 
and the offer made by Invesco only takes  into account what she can prove  rather 
than accepting that she would have converted all the funds in pounds sterling to 
euros had the transaction been completed  in time;
the delay required her to make  alternative arrangements  to fund the property 
purchase in euros and this hasnt been  considered  because  she cant quantify these 
losses;
but she was willing  to accept the offer from Invesco,  providing (a) the award  for 
trouble and upset  is increased to £1,000 as £300 doesnt  reflect the effort required 
and stress that this has caused to re-set  her finances, (b) the redress  calculations 
carried out by Invesco followed the methodology I set out in the provisional  decision 
and (c), as Invesco  cant pay redress in euros,  it should use either the exchange  rate 
at the calculation date or the exchange rate at the date of settlement to convert euros 
to pounds sterling, whichever is the more favourable to her.
Mrs C later re-iterated that she would  have transferred the whole amount on the day of the 
transaction if Invesco  had paid the money  into her account, which  it did not. She contacted 
Invesco as early as February  2017 for it requirements to ensure the funds could be realised 
in May without delay.  As there were delays, she is much worse  off. She would not have sold 
the investments  at all but for the property purchase.
Invesco confirmed that it agreed  to increase the award for the trouble and upset  Mrs C had 
been caused to £1,000. 
Otherwise, it understands that Mrs C has accepted the offer which compensates  her for the 
losses she can quantify. It cant see how it can adopt a basis for reimbursing losses she 
feels shes made by not investing all her funds in the property  which havent since benefitted 
from the appreciation in property values.
Ref: DRN36567594findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Invesco has now accepted that it didnt  process the sale of Mrs Cs investments in a timely 
manner and that it should have acknowledged this when it first investigated her complaint. 
And, as it accepts that Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld,  the outstanding issue,  therefore, 
concerns the basis of redress shes due.   
As I indicated in my provisional decision,  while I can follow the sequence  of event to the 
point where Mrs C received the funds, there is a lack of evidence as to her intentions  for the 
money, when she needed  it and why she didnt convert all her funds to euros on 12 June 
2017. 
While I did find her explanation that she deferred converting £45,000 of her funds to euros 
for four weeks in the hope  of a better exchange rate plausible, this money had been 
deposited in her UK bank account by then and she does say she was already concerned  at 
the downward movement  in the exchange rate due to the impending UK elections. It was 
therefore incumbent on her to mitigate  her losses as soon  as possible. Accordingly, I 
sympathise with Invescos  view as well that Mrs C ought to have converted her funds to 
euros at the earliest possible opportunity.        
There is very little evidence to verify the claims  made by Mrs C regarding  events and her 
intentions once the money  had been deposited  in her UK bank  account  to assess precisely  
what losses shes suffered. So, Ive had to exercise  some judgement  as to what  the outcome 
should be that seems  fair to each side in this complaint. Invesco has accepted that it has 
caused Mrs C a financial loss but its difficult to be precise about the extent  of those losses.
Taking everything into consideration, Im inclined  to decide that the offer made by Invesco, 
which includes a slightly better exchange rate on 31 May 2017 than on 26 May 2017 and an 
increased award of £1,000 for Mrs Cs trouble  and upset,  is a fair outcome.
Mr C has suggested that Invesco should convert  her loss in euros  at June 2017 to pounds  
sterling using the exchange rate at the date of settlement, but only if it gives a more  
favourable outcome than its calculations at 17 May 2019. 
In the circumstances, I think it would appropriate to crystallise Mrs Cs losses at 17 May 
2019 (as Invesco  has done) and add interest  to redress  calculated  at that date to the date of 
settlement, rather than to be selective  about  the exchange rate used  to convert  her losses  in 
euros to pounds sterling.   
      
decision
My final decision is that uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
I require Invesco Fund Managers  Limited  to pay Mrs C £3,365.56, plus interest  on this sum 
at the rate of eight per cent per annum simple  from 17 May 2019  to the date of settlement. 
In addition, it should pay her £1,000 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused her.
Ref: DRN36567595Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019 .
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36567596COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs C has complained at the delay  in receiving the proceeds of the sale of two investments from 
Invesco Fund Managers Limited in May 2017. She needed  the funds  at that time to purchase a 
property and has suffered  financial losses because she needed to make alternative arrangements to 
fund the purchase and the pound sterling/euro  exchange rate had collapsed when  she converted  the 
proceeds to euros  on 12 June 2017 and 7 August 2017 respectively.          
Specifically, she says that:
she first contacted Invesco in February 2017 to for its requirements to sell the investments 
and to transfer the funds to her UK bank account and was given to understand that the 
process would  take two-to-three days;
it was evident she resided abroad, but Invesco didnt warn her until the investment was sold 
on 9 May that more  time would  be needed to complete money  laundering requirements;
when she provided the relevant documentation by mid-May, stressing the urgency of the 
matter, Invesco confirmed in a telephone conversation on 25 May, and in a letter dated 1 
June, that it had received all the necessary paperwork. She, therefore, expected an 
immediate direct  transfer of funds  to her UK bank account; 
instead, she found  that Invesco was intending to post the proceeds to her by cheque and a 
delay occurred while the cheque was cancelled  and a BACS  transfer arranged. She received  
the proceeds in her UK bank account on 9 June, one month after her investment had been 
sold;
Mrs C asked for two investments to be surrendered and Invesco  sold only one. The other 
investment wasnt  sold until August 2017 after she needed to repeat  the money laundering 
and identification process again;
her surrender requests  were handled by two different  teams who didnt appear to share  
information.  
 
Altogether, Mrs C believes that she has suffered a loss of around 9,000 euros  due to the delay in 
receiving the proceeds  of her investments  and the reduction in the pound sterling/euro exchange rate 
that followed.
  
background
Mrs C first notified Invesco  in February 2017 that she would need to release funds  from her 
investments in May or early  June 2017 in order to buy a flat. Invesco says it set out to her its 
requirements for the investment proceeds to be paid direct to her UK bank account, which included  
provision of a voided cheque, a bank statement within  the last three months  and verification  of her 
name and address. 
Invesco received Mrs Cs instructions to sell all her individual holdings  on 6 May 2017 into a joint bank 
account. But it wrote  to her on 11 May to say that the voided cheque  she provided  didnt meet  its 
verification requirements as her name didnt appear on it. Also, it didnt make third party  payments 
and advised her that it would need to send her a cheque for the proceeds.
It seems Mrs C called  Invesco on 17 May explaining that she didnt want  a cheque  to be sent to her 
address abroad.  At this point, she was told that her anti-money laundering  status was still not 
confirmed and she needed  to provide  verification  documents  as Invesco couldnt  carry out credit 
checks online because  she lived abroad. Mrs C duly sent in an original bank statement and driving 
licence which was received  by Invesco on 23 May. 
It seems that, in a series  of telephone calls on 25 May,  Invesco first confirmed that it hadnt received 
the certified copy of an identification card Mrs C says she also enclosed two days earlier.  But it 
Ref: DRN36567597confirmed to her later in the day that her status  had now been updated and, significantly, that the 
funds would be released by BACS within  the next day.
Invesco has confirmed that Mrs C called on 30 May as she hadnt received the funds and was told 
that payment had been made  by cheque because it hadnt received appropriate bank verification. It 
then confirmed  that verification of her bank account had in fact been received. It, therefore,  offered to 
stop the cheque and make payment by BACS. In the event, the proceeds were  paid to her bank 
account by direct transfer on 7 June and the payment cleared on 9 June  2017.
In recognition of the delay since  Invesco confirmed on 25 May that it had received all its requirement 
for payment  to be made by BACS, it offered Mrs C £200 for loss of interest until 9 June 2017  and the 
inconvenience caused  by the delay  in preparing  a cheque by mistake and then cancelling it.
In the event,  Mrs C found that only one of her two investments had been sold in May 2017 (even  
though she thought they were held under  one account number). Accordingly, Invesco  needed to carry 
out a fresh identification verification process to sell the second investment,  thereby causing  a further 
delay in funds reaching her bank account.
The complaint was investigated by one of our investigators,  who felt it should  be upheld.
He noted that Mrs C was told by Invesco on 25 May that the funds  would be paid to her account by 
BACS in the next few days. By 30 May, the funds still hadnt  been credited to her account  and, when 
she chased  payment, she was told it would be issued  by cheque. This meant funds wouldnt  be 
available for the property purchase and she had to borrow money  from family members  instead. So, 
Invesco cancelled  the cheque  and paid the funds  by BACS, which  wasnt received by her until 9 June.  
In the meantime, the pounds sterling/euro  exchange rate fell. 
In the investigators  view,  Invescos  offer of £200 was inadequate to compensate Mrs C for her 
losses. In addition,  she called Invesco on a number  of occasions to deal with its errors and to chase  
payment. 
If Invesco had not delayed matters by preparing  a cheque instead of a BACS payment,  
Mrs C may have avoided the effects  on her funds of a declining exchange rate. He, therefore, 
recommended Invesco should pay Mrs C:
a further  £150 for the trouble and upset she has suffered;
the difference in the value of her investment between 25 May 2017 and 12 June 2017 with 
reference to the pounds sterling/euro exchange  rate at close of business on those  days, plus 
interest at eight  per cent per annum simple.
In response, both Mrs C and Invesco  accepted the investigators  assessment in principle but didnt 
agree the basis of redress for different reasons.
Mrs C maintained that Invesco ought to have been in a position to pay funds into her bank account  by 
BACS on 9 May 2017 once the investment had been sold. So, the starting point for the calculation  of 
her loss should be the exchange rate and the value of her investment in euros  on that date.
On the other hand, Invesco  wanted to make sure that some of Mrs Cs fund hadnt been lying idle in 
her bank account in pounds sterling for any length of time before being converted to euros. 
In response to Invescos  comment,  Mrs C provide a copy of her UK bank statements  which showed  
that funds  of approximately £128,500 were deposited in her account on 9 June 2017.  She converted  
£60,000 to euros immediately and deposited 67,200 euros in her overseas bank account  on 12 June. 
She didnt  transfer  another £45,000 to her overseas account as 48,435 euros  until 7 August 2017.  
Mrs C confirmed  that the remaining £23,500 was transferred as a series of smaller  payments in the 
meantime.
Ref: DRN36567598Given this information, Invesco didnt agree that the investigators basis of redress was appropriate 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The complaint  was therefore referred to me for review.
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
This case has been difficult to rationalise  because  the submissions made  by each side have been 
supported by very little evidence.  Ive, therefore,  needed to exercise judgement as to the likely version 
of events and reach a conclusion that looks fair in the circumstances. 
Im inclined  to believe  that Mrs Cs intention  was to surrender her investment  through  Invesco  in 2017 
with a view to buying a property by the end of May. Theres  also agreement that she made  enquiries 
as early as February  2017  as to Invescos requirements  for processing the sale of these investments 
and paying the funds into her UK bank account at the appropriate  time. Invesco says it set out these  
requirements in an email  to her dated 16 February 2017, including provision  of a voided cheque,  a 
bank statement dated within  the last three months and verification of her name and address.
My understanding is that Mrs C didnt provide  Invesco  any of this paperwork until after she gave 
instructions to sell all her individual holdings on 6 May 2017.
Thereafter, the sequence of event  is as Ive set out above in the background section  above.
There seems  to be agreement that Invesco ought to have been in a position  by 25 May 2017 to 
transfer the proceeds of Mrs Cs investments to her UK bank account by BACS.  That it arranged to 
make payment by cheque, cancelled that cheque and sent a BACS transfer which reached her bank 
account 15 days later has caused Mrs C a financial  loss on two counts. 
First, it seems  she needed to borrow funds from her family to ensure the property purchase 
completed in time (by the end of May) and, second, the sterling/euro exchange  rate deteriorated  
further during that 15 day period.
But, based on the submissions made by each side, Im inclined to believe that Invesco could not have 
been in a position to pay the proceeds of her investments by 9 May 2017,  as Mrs C has argued. I, 
therefore, dont think the starting  point for any redress shes due can be based on the exchange rate 
prevailing on that date.
According to the bank statements  Mrs C has provided, a sum of £128,500 was paid into her UK bank 
account on 9 June 2017. She immediately transferred  £60,000 (converted to 67,200 euros  at an 
exchange rate of 1.12 euros to the pound) to her overseas  account and transferred  £45,000 
(converted to 48,825 euros at a rate of 1.085) to her overseas account on 7 August 2017. Mrs C has 
not accounted for the remaining sum of £23,500.
But Mrs C explained that, as the proceeds of the investment  werent available in time to purchase the 
flat, she borrowed funds from family. This meant that she had no use of some of the investment 
proceeds when she received  them on 9 June 2017 and, for this reason, at least  £45,000 sat idle in 
her UK bank account until 7 August 2017. Otherwise, had this money  been paid to her before the end 
of May 2017,  it would  have been used to purchase the property, which  has since appreciated in value. 
But Mrs C hasnt provided  any evidence  to show how this sum of £45,000 (or the euro equivalent) 
would have appreciated  as part of the capital value  of the property. Its, therefore,  very difficult  to 
estimate Mrs Cs losses  in this respect.
 
Mrs C is adamant  that she requested all her investments to be sold at the same time in May 2017.  
Accordingly, she had to make alternative arrangements to fund the property purchase and the 
sterling/euro exchange  rate collapsed  shortly thereafter.  
Ref: DRN36567599She says the initial delay in selling the investments,  and then the effect  of the reduction in the 
exchange rate, caused knock-on financial difficulties and some adjustments to her household 
finances. But, as these losses  were  difficult to quantify,  she was content to limit her claim  to the 
losses shes suffered due to the delay  in Invesco making payment in May 2017 and the reduction in 
the exchange rate when the investment were eventually  transferred to her overseas bank account.
On balance, and given the limited evidence thats available to me, I think  Invesco ought  to have paid 
the total value of her investments of £128,500 into Mrs Cs UK bank account by 25 May 2017.
Thereafter, it took three days  to be converted to euros and paid in to her overseas bank account  
because a weekend let immediately after funds were deposited in her UK account. Had funds been 
paid in to this account on 25 May 2017, its reasonable to suppose that these could have been 
converted and transferred to her overseas bank account the following  day, i.e. on 26 May 2017.
But Mrs C only transferred £60,000 to her overseas  account immediately. She didnt transfer a further 
£45,000 for another eight weeks because she had no immediate use for this money (as it was paid to 
her after she was committed  to purchasing the property and she held out for a better exchange  rate). 
And, as she cant account for the remaining £23,500,  I dont  know how,  and when, this was spent  or 
whether it was even converted  to euros.
All things considered, I think Mrs C should receive  compensation for any loss she has suffered for the 
total sum of £128,500  not being deposited in her UK bank account  on 25 May 2017 and then not 
being able to transfer  £105,000 of that sum as euros to her overseas  bank account on 26 May 2017.
provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
I require  Invesco Fund Managers Limited  to pay Mrs C redress, if any, of A + B + I + J, where:
A = interest on £23,500 at eight  per cent per annum simple from 25 May 2017 to 
9 June 2017;  
  
B = interest on A at eight per cent per annum simple from 9 June 2017 to-date;
C = the number of euros the sum of £105,000 would have bought at the exchange rate ruling  
on 26 May 2017;
D = interest  on C at eight per cent per annum  simple  from 26 May 2017 to 12 June 2017; 
E = 67,200 euros at 12 June 2017;
F = C + D - E;
G = interest  on F at eight per cent per annum simple from 12 June 2017 to 7 August 2017;
H = £48,835 euros at 7 August 2017;
I = F + G  H;
J = interest  on I at eight per cent per annum simple from 7 August 2017 to-date.
Ref: DRN365675910Redress should be calculated, and paid to Mrs C, in euros.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited will need to decide, if Mr C is resident  abroad and doesnt pay UK 
tax, whether its legally obliged to deduct income  tax from the interest  calculated in B, D, G and J. 
If so, it must send a tax deduction certificate to Mrs C with payment.
In addition, Invesco Fund Managers Limited  should pay Mrs C £350 for the trouble and upset this 
matter will have caused  her.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3656759