K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about a claim she made on her Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) 
travel insurance policy, which was declined.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  In summary I explained I wasnt  intending to uphold  
Mrs Rs complaint as I didnt think URV had declined the claim unfairly.  
I asked Mrs R and URV  to let me know if they had anything to add but Ive not received any 
further comments. So I now need to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any further  representations there  is no reason for me to reach  a different 
conclusion from the one I set out in my provisional  decision. I remain  satisfied that the claim 
was declined fairly so Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint about  Union Reiseversicherung AG. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33183352COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about a claim she made on her Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) travel 
insurance policy, which  was declined.
background
Mrs R and family were  on a cruise ship abroad and disembarked in the UK. During the cruise her son 
fell ill and was quarantined within the ship for less than 24 hours. 
On their return to the UK they travelled to an airport in London to catch their connecting flight home. 
When they reached the airport, Mrs R also fell ill with what  appears to be symptoms similar  to her 
sons, after going through the airports security checks. She wasnt able to board the flight, and stayed 
in an accommodation with her mother overnight, before returning home  by train. She was seen by a 
paramedic at the airport but didnt receive any emergency medical  treatment. Her son and the rest of 
the family returned  home as planned. Mrs R wants URV to cover the cost of her accommodation and 
train fares. 
Mrs R says her claim relates to Section  B2 of her policy  under emergency medical attention.  URV  
initially declined her claim  and said her situation didnt meet any of the criteria set out under  the 
policy. However, when URV investigated the complaint, it said it failed  to address  her sons 
circumstances of being  confined  in the cruise ship. It declined that part of the claim  as well because 
the confinement wasnt for at least 24 hours, but offered  a voucher for not addressing  this sooner.
Our adjudicator looked  into Mrs Rs complaint and didnt  uphold it. She referred to the section If you 
need emergency medical attention (Policy B Section 2) and said that URV would only provide cover 
for expenses  for accommodation and travel if they were because of necessary emergency medical 
situations, and if they occurred  outside  of the United  Kingdom.  She also referred  to the definition of 
home country in her answer and concluded URV had correctly declined the claim.
Mrs R didnt agree and explained that the summary  of cover on page three of the policy says cover 
starts when you leave  home to begin  your trip. She also said that it doesnt say medical emergencies 
need to be outside of the home country. She feels the policy doesnt make this clear enough.
So the matter has been referred to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that URV  have a responsibility  to handle claims  
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I can appreciate  the circumstances Mrs R has described and I fully empathise with the situation she 
found herself in at the airport. However, having looked at the policy  wording I can see that Mrs R 
could only benefit from the cover for additional  travel  and accommodation as a consequence of 
requiring emergency medical treatment,  as set out in section  B2 of the policy. 
Mrs R didnt attend hospital  and didnt  receive any emergency medical treatment, although  I 
understand a paramedic did attend. I entirely  understand her reasons for not wanting  to visit an NHS 
hospital for the purposes of her insurance  claim. However, theres no evidence  to suggest she 
received emergency medical treatment or contacted the emergency  assistance team for guidance. 
Ref: DRN33183353Mrs R did provide URV with copies of notes from the medical team on board  the cruise ship. Whilst it 
confirmed a condition  for her son, it asked her to take precautions  to avoid symptoms. Apart from 
these notes, there  are no other medical reports to confirm she received emergency  medical 
treatment. So I dont think its unreasonable for URV to decline her claim for the additional  
accommodation and travel costs.
Essentially Mrs R missed  her connecting flight home because she was unwell at the airport.  So I think  
the relevant section of the policy that should apply  is section B1  missed departure.  But the level of 
cover Mrs R has doesnt  provide a benefit for the circumstances shes described. I can see this is 
because the Missed  departure section of her policy only covers alternative transport costs for 
missing an outbound departure. And the circumstances are specific to her private car breaking down, 
or issues with public transport.
Mrs R hadnt purchased additional cover  for travel disruption which includes extended  missed  
departure cover. This may have provided cover for the situation Mrs R described in her claim,  as she 
missed an onward connecting flight to her home. 
And, with the Cruise extension which she did buy, had her son (or Mrs R herself) been confined  in 
the cruise ship due to illness, they wouldve  received  £25 per 24 hours. As 
Mrs Rs son wasnt confined for 24 hours I think URVs decision to decline this part of the claim  is fair. 
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint that Union Reiseversicherung AG should pay the claim  
under her travel  insurance policy.
Mrs R and URV have until 4 June 2019 to provide any further information which  might make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3318335