K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a store  
card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mr W took out the PPI at the same  time as applying  for a store  card whilst in a shop  in 
October 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W says that the PPI was added  to the store card account without his knowledge or 
consent. Ive seen a copy  of the application  form that was completed  at the time. There  is a 
separate section  for PPI and Mr W has signed in that section to request the policy. He could 
have left it blank  if he didnt want the PPI. From the wording  and layout of the form I think 
that Mr W would have  known that the PPI was optional. The sale happened  a long time ago 
and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ws recollection of events  has faded. It seems  to me 
that he probably decided to take the policy  out, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no 
longer remembers doing  so.
FICL didnt  advise Mr W to take out the policy, so it didnt  need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr W with enough  information for him to be able to make  
an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr Ws employer  would  have given him between six and twelve months sick pay. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr W would have 
received full pay for. Mr W has said that he had some other means  of making  his payments, 
although he hasnt  provided any details. Regardless of this, the policy  would have allowed 
him to reserve any other means, such as savings that he had, or use them  to cover  other 
outgoings. So I think he had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it at what  
would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that FICL didnt provide as much  information as it should  have  about  the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr W wasnt affected  by any of those 
things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.  So hes no worse  off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong,  so theres nothing  that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
Ref: DRN38475292my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3847529