K822xcomplaint
H, a limited company,  complains about the settlement offered by Arch Insurance (UK) 
Limited in respect  of a contractors all risks claim. H is represented  by its owner,  Mr H. 
background
The circumstances are well known to both parties, so I wont describe the background in any 
great detail  here. 
In summary,  H made a claim after a fire broke  out in a property it was partway through  
developing. The fire had been caused  by one of its contractors. Arch accepted the claim and 
agreed to pay a cash settlement as H wanted  to arrange its own repairs.  Hs surveyor 
produced a specification of works  estimating the repairs would cost £69,000.  In contrast  to 
this, Archs surveyor estimated the repair costs to be £36,376.84 and so this was Archs  final 
offer. H brought a complaint to this service as it thought  Archs  settlement should be 
increased to around  £58,000. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. He thought it was 
appropriate for Arch to rely on the estimate prepared by its own surveyor, as he thought  the 
costings were likely to be more accurate. However,  he thought Arch had likely asked H to 
arrange for a surveyors report, and also thought Archs surveyor had benefited from that 
report. That being the case, he recommended Arch reimburse H for the cost of its surveyors  
report. 
Arch agreed with our investigators recommendations,  but H didnt. The matter has therefore 
been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Cash settlement
The policy says:
The Insured is indemnified only for physical  loss or damage arising from Contract Works  
on or adjacent to the site of any Contract  including whilst in Transit.
Contract Works is defined as:
means works undertaken in performance  of the Contract including  works, temporary  works  
and materials
Mr H initially estimated the repairs would cost £64,900. He arranged for a firm of chartered 
surveyors (that Ill call B) to provide a specification of works. 
B estimated the repairs alone would  cost £49,000. However, it also included a figure for 
cleaning (which was arranged separately by Arch),  as well as £10,000 for project 
management. Once B had also added on preliminaries and a contingency amount, the figure  
was £69,000.
Ref: DRN38306622Arch thought Bs report lacked sufficient detail regarding costings, and also thought the 
estimated management  fee of £10,000  was excessive. Arch therefore  arranged for a 
surveyor (that Ill call C) to review Bs specification of works and provide its opinion on the 
costs. 
C said that Bs estimate didnt provide any quantities or areas, and instead listed  basic strip 
out and reinstatement  works to be done.  C therefore looked at the individual quotes H had 
obtained for repairs and compared  the rates against those provided by the Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors  (RICS) under its Building  Cost Information Service (BCIS).
Overall, C thought Bs description of the works was commensurate with the damage  it had 
both observed,  and seen in photos  taken at the time. It thought  some  of the labour rates 
were lower than those provided  by other contractors,  but thought the timescale  allowances 
appeared elevated. It also thought some of the dimensions stated in a quote were  marginally  
inflated. However, C thought there  remained room  for negotiation on a final total figure for 
the works,  following additional breakdowns being  requested, in particular from one 
contractor. C estimated the repair costs would be £36,376.84.
Following Cs report,  Arch offered £36,376.84 cash settlement to H, however  this was turned 
down. Arch therefore arranged for a further review to take place by a loss adjuster who 
hadnt previously  been involved with the claim.  That loss adjuster carried  out a desktop  
review of the file, and concluded the repairs  would  cost around £28,554. As this was less 
than Archs original  offer, it continued  to offer £36,376.84 to H.
Having looked  carefully at the information  provided,  Im inclined to agree with the 
investigator that greater  weight ought to be placed on Cs estimate.  I say that because  it 
seems reasonable  for C to have  based the costings on those provided by BCIS. Added 
weight is given to Cs estimate as being  a more  realistic  cost of the repairs  as the second 
review by the loss adjuster also estimated the repair  costs would be much less than Bs 
estimate. 
I appreciate the loss adjuster only carried out a desktop review  of the file, and for that reason 
I agree  with Arch that its offer should  remain in line with the amount estimated by C, given 
that C visited the site. Whilst  I recognise  repair works had already started by that time, its 
apparent that C agreed with Bs description  of the repair works needed, the main difference  
was the rates used. 
Significantly, C didnt  include a project management fee in its estimate, for which B had 
estimated £10,000  but H had thought would cost £6,700 (as H was project  managing the 
repairs itself). Mr H says that if H hadnt  managed  the project, Arch would have needed to do 
so. Arch disagrees with this, because under the policy  Arch is only required to indemnify H 
for the physical loss or damage  that arose from the incident. I think  Archs interpretation is 
correct, and therefore project management wouldnt fall under  this.
The policy does cover architects, surveyors, consulting engineers and other professional 
fees necessarily incurred in the reinstatement  of the insured  property. However, Mr H hasnt 
explained what the figure of £6,700  is actually for. If it was simply for H arranging  the repairs  
itself then I dont  think  this would be considered a professional fee that was necessarily 
incurred in the reinstatement  of the property. However, if it includes other costs that Mr H 
thinks would  be considered a professional fee, he should provide further information about 
this to Arch for it to consider further.  
Ref: DRN38306623On balance, I therefore find Archs cash settlement offer was reasonable. 
Other issues
Mr H submitted a quote from an electricity  network operator in respect  of works required. 
Arch makes the point  that this quote  appears to be the cost of electrical works to complete  
the contract  as a whole, not as a result of the fire. That does seem to be the case. If Mr H 
has evidence to support  how much  he paid for electrical works necessary as a result of the 
fire (not including the electrical  repairs already taken into account in Cs estimate), he should 
submit it to Arch for its further consideration. 
Mr H has raised  concerns about the quality of the cleaning in the property. Ive seen some 
photos taken,  which clearly show the property  wasnt  clean. However,  those photos were  
taken before the cleaning contractor had completed their work.  A soot analysis  report from 
November 2018  showed that no soot was found in samples taken. Consequently, I dont 
think Mr H has shown that the cleaning wasnt done to an appropriate standard.  
Mr H says that when he notified Arch of the claim, the loss adjuster asked him to arrange for 
a surveyor to provide  a schedule of works. Arch denies this. I dont know for certain if Mr Hs 
recollections are correct, though I see his broker agrees with him on this point. Though  in 
any event, since the policy  covers the cost of surveyors and Arch didnt arrange for its own 
specification of works at the time, I think itd be reasonable for Arch to reimburse  H for the 
cost of this report.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Arch Insurance  (UK) Limited 
to reimburse H for the cost of its surveyors report. Interest should be added at the rate of 
8% simple  per annum from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
 If Arch considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell H how much its taken  off. It should also give H a certificate showing this if it asks 
for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN3830662