K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  mishandled his claim on a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints about  regulated  
activities carried out by regulated financial firms. Where I refer to British  Gas, I refer to the 
insurance company  of that name and I include engineers and others  for whose actions I hold 
that company  responsible.
Mr B took out a new British Gas policy in February  2018. It was to cover  his central heating 
boiler. But in late March 2018 British  Gas visited and said he first needed to pay for a 
replacement plate heat exchanger for his direct  hot water. Mr B got his own engineer to work  
on his heat exchanger.
In May 2018  Mr B reported a leak and asked British Gas to help. He complained that it 
declined to help  blaming Mr Bs engineer  for the leak which  it thought was coming from the 
heat exchanger.
In the end Mr Bs engineer fixed a leak by replacing  the hot water flow housing. Mr B 
complained that British  Gas hadnt  diagnosed that part as the source of the leak.  He said 
British Gas should reimburse  him.
British Gas or Mr B cancelled his policy with effect from June 2018.
In its final response letter,  British Gas said it had arranged to send  Mr B a cheque for 
£30.00.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld  at first. He thought 
that British Gas had made an error  but the £30.00  compensation offered was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Our investigator later changed his view. He recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought British  Gas had incorrectly diagnosed the leak as coming from the seal 
of the heat exchanger. He didnt think hed seen any definitive evidence that Mr Bs engineer  
caused any faults or the replacement of the hot water flow housing.  He said that if it had 
been diagnosed sooner, that part couldve been covered by British Gas. He recommended  
that British Gas should reimburse Mr B the cost of that.
Mr B agreed with the investigators opinion. 
British Gas didnt  respond  to the investigators opinion.  So the investigator asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35541912Mr B had a British Gas policy that expired in December 2017  when he chose not to renew it. 
In February 2018  he decided  to take out a new British Gas policy. 
The policy terms covered  boiler repairs  but not for all faults.  The policy  excluded  damage 
or faults  caused  by another company. The policy also excluded faults that existed  when Mr B 
took out that policy. Although British  Gas had seen his boiler before, the new policy was 
subject to a first inspection visit. 
When the British  Gas engineer attended  in late March  2018, he didnt record  a leak. He said 
Mr B had a pre-existing issue with the plate heat exchanger. Thats in line with his record  of 
intermittent hot water.  
So I dont  think British  Gas treated Mr B unfairly  by declining to do anything until he had paid 
for work to the heat exchanger. British Gas (or strictly speaking  an associated  company) 
gave him a quote for a replacement.
Mr B says he involved his own engineer at that stage. But I havent seen an invoice. So Im 
not persuaded that Mr B paid for a new plate heat exchanger. 
Mr B called British Gas about  a leak in May 2018.  Its engineer said Mr Bs engineer had 
cleaned the plate. That indicates that Mr Bs engineer hadnt replaced it. And British  Gas (or 
strictly speaking  an associated company) again  quoted to replace the heat exchanger.
I dont think at that stage  British Gas was recommending a new heat exchanger  because  of 
intermittent hot water.  And British  Gas has told us in other cases that a clean can be an 
effective alternative to a replacement heat exchanger.
British Gas wasnt declining  to fix the leak because  Mr B hadnt replaced the heat 
exchanger. Rather  British  Gas was declining to fix the leak because  its engineer  thought Mr 
Bs engineer had cleaned the heat exchanger  and left it leaking.
Theres been a suggestion that Mr Bs engineer replaced the seal of the heat exchanger.  But 
I havent seen  an invoice. So Im not persuaded that Mr B paid for that.
I think the leak continued until Mr Bs engineer fixed it by replacing  the hot water flow 
housing. And British Gas engineers hadnt  diagnosed a leak from the hot water  flow housing. 
I dont think that shows  that British  Gas had been  wrong to recommend a new heat 
exchanger. Its quite possible that Mr Bs boiler had more than one fault.
But I think the burden is on British Gas to show that its policy  didnt cover  the leak because it 
had been caused by Mr Bs engineer. And the British Gas final response letter  included  the 
following apology:
I have offered  a good  will gesture  of £30.00 as an apology  that our diagnosis was 
incorrect upon the second appointment however I am unable to alter the outcome in 
regards to liability for the second fault appearing.
So British  Gas apologised that its diagnosis in May was incorrect.  Also,  British  Gas hasnt 
provided us with enough technical detail to show that Mr Bs engineer damaged the hot 
water flow housing. So I find that British Gas has fallen short of showing that its policy  didnt 
cover fixing  the leak. 
Ref: DRN35541913That means I think British  Gas treated Mr B unfairly by declining  to help him under the policy.
Ive thought about ordering  British  Gas to pay Mr B compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused by declining to help him. But I think  most of that was to do with the 
fact that Mr B had to pay his own engineer.
Ive seen an invoice  for £150.00 for that dated 19 June 2018. Therefore  I find it fair and 
reasonable to order British Gas to reimburse  Mr B for that. And - as Mr B has been out of 
pocket since that time - I find it fair and reasonable to order British Gas to add interest  at our 
usual rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B:
1.£150.00 in reimbursement of his engineers invoice dated  19 June 2018; and
2.simple interest on that amount from that date at the yearly rate of 8% until the date of 
reimbursement. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554191