K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out a loan in 1997. At the same  time she was sold a single  premium  PPI policy. 
The cost of the policy was added  to the loan and interest charged. If Mrs S had made a 
successful claim  for accident,  sickness or unemployment the policy  would have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear that the PPI was optional  and Mrs S had to agree to take it out. 
Mrs S told us that the policy  was added without her knowledge or consent. Where there is a 
dispute about what happened  such as this, Ill base my decision on what  I think is more 
likely.
The loan and policy were  taken out in a meeting in a branch. Ive been given a copy of the 
Personal Loan Customer Details Form which was completed at the time. On this form there  
is a section about PPI and a box to tick if the cover is required. I can see that on Mrs Ss 
form a printed cross has been entered into this box. Whilst  this cross has been pre-printed 
on the form I think its likely that this answer  would have  reflected  the conversation she had 
in the meeting and the choice that she made. Mrs S has signed the form which  suggests  she 
agreed with everything  that had been  entered.
In addition to this, Ive also seen a copy of the credit agreement for the loan. On this 
document there are two statements; Optional Payment Protection is required and Optional  
Payment Protection  is not required. On Mrs Ss agreement  there is a printed cross in the 
box next to the option to say the cover is required.  Underneath  this is information about  the 
cost of the PPI, including the premium and the amount of interest that would be charged. 
Mrs S has signed this form to show her agreement.  If Mrs S didnt  know what this payment 
was for and hadnt agreed for it to be added to her loan, I think  she would have questioned 
this at the time.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think FICL made Mrs S aware that the 
policy was optional and that Mrs S agreed to take out the policy,  knowing she could refuse  it 
if she didnt want it.
Ref: DRN32953782FICL has said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S but she has told us that she did receive 
advice. Mrs S hasnt given much detail  as to why she thinks  this is the case. From  my review  
I havent seen  anything to suggest FICL  took steps to assess  Mrs Ss circumstances with the 
intention of recommending  the policy to her. So I dont think it did recommend the PPI to her. 
This means  it didnt  have  to check if the cover  was right for her. But it did have to make  sure 
Mrs S got the information she needed to decide  for herself if it was right for her.
It is possible that not all of the information that FICL  gave Mrs S about the policy  was as 
clear as it could have been.  But as Ive mentioned above, I think  Mrs S chose to take it out  
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong  even taking into consideration the employee benefits  she 
says she would have  been entitled to. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think that 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
From what  we know Mrs S would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if 
she cancelled the policy early. I dont know if FICL thought about this when it recommended 
the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Mrs S. But I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  wasnt 
right for her  or that better  information about  this wouldve stopped  her buying it.
And the credit agreement  shows  the cost of the policy   including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mrs S would 
have understood  how much  the PPI would  cost if she kept the policy for its full term. And I 
think she agreed to take the PPI knowing the cost. Given how long the policy could have 
paid out for, if Mrs S made  a successful claim its likely she couldve got back quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
So, overall, I dont  think Mrs S has lost out as a result of anything  that FICL mightve done 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3295378