K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC changed the term of their loan facility and put 
them in a difficult situation. They would like the facility to continue  on the original terms until 
2021.
background
Mr and Mrs H had two interest-only  business loans (ending in 80 and 65) with Lloyds  
secured as a second charge on their property. The loan ending  in 80 was for £136,000. The 
loan ending  in 65 was for £51,500. In 2014, Mr and Mrs H also took out a smaller capital 
repayment loan of £31,000  which will mature in May 2021 (ending in 01).
The interest-only loans  were taken out as commercial loans in 2006 and 2007 to extend  and 
improve their property.  The 2006  loan was to be repaid by a lump-sum after 24 months. I 
have seen no paperwork for the 2007  loan. Lloyds secured  these loans by a second charge 
on Mr and Mrs Hs home.  Lloyds  also took a charge on some  shares.  The shares were 
valuable at the dates the loans were taken out but were suspended from trading on the AIM 
in September  2007 and are of £nil value since. Mr and Mrs H intended to clear these loans 
by the sale of shares but as the share price fell the borrowing couldnt be repaid. The bank 
says that in an effort to assist the customer,  it allowed the loans  to continue rather  than to be 
called up for repayment.  
Mr and Mrs H say that in October  2007,  Lloyds extended the loans by five years and then in 
July 2012 Lloyds extended  the loans on a rolling  basis at branch  level requiring 
Mr and Mrs H to make a small repayment  of capital  monthly. Mr and Mrs H say that in 
2013/14 there were  ongoing discussions with Lloyds and Lloyds agreed that the loans would 
continue until there was a monetising event or Mr and Mrs Hs daughter  left home  for, 
hopefully, university  in 2021. The bank  has no note of this agreement.
The bank says that these two loans  were rolled  over periodically at the same  rate as the 
original loans and the changing due date appears on the account.  statements. The bank 
says that it could not allow these  loans to roll over indefinitely and when the loans became 
due for repayment  in March 2017,  it issued  a formal demand in May 2017.  
In July 2017 Mr H asked for a two year period to repay the loan with the intention,  initially, of 
splitting the title to the house.  When this didnt appear a viable option, Mr and Mrs H 
suggested the sale of the house and asked  for a period to organise that. The bank extended  
the loans to December 2017 and then to March  2018 and then closed the loans, debiting  
Mr and Mrs Hs current account with the balances on the loans of £143,000. The bank at that 
time created an overdraft  facility on Mr and Mrs Hs current account to cover that amount 
until the end of September 2018 on the same interest  rate as it applied  to the interest-only 
loans. 
As the bank saw no progress on the sale of the property it decided  not to continue offering 
the overdraft facility. The bank wrote to Mr and Mrs H to say that the facility  had expired on 
1 October 2018 and the interest  on the account was now accruing at the banks rate for an 
unauthorised overdraft. The bank then called  in the overdrafts and the capital repayment 
loan by way of a formal  demand letter of 8 October 2018. The amount demanded for the 
overdraft was £145,169.31 and for the capital repayment loan was £13,393.83.  
Ref: DRN30277172Mr and Mrs H believe that the interest-only loans were to continue to 2021  in line with the 
repayment loan they took out in 2014. This would allow them  time to make arrangements  to 
pay the loans  off. Our adjudicator didnt  recommend  that this complaint should  be upheld  as 
he felt that the bank  had extended facilities to Mr and Mrs H which  were  always  repayable 
on demand and so the bank had done nothing  wrong by requiring repayment.  Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although these were  joint loans, for the purposes  of building work on the matrimonial  home I 
note that Mr and Mrs H no longer live together. Mrs H and their daughter  continue  to live in 
the property. Mr H took to do with the family finances and most of the discussions conducted  
between the bank and the couple were with Mr H.
This dispute is concerned with when two interest-only loans fall due for repayment.  The 
loans appear to have matured  sometime earlier. I have seen documentations for the 2006  
loan which  matured in 2008 but wasnt then paid off, because  of the fall in value  of the 
shares which was the intended repayment  vehicle. I assume the 2007 loan was similar. 
Although there is no documentation for this, there  is no disputing that there were two 
interest-only loans  which matured and both parties agree that the loans were  then rolled  
over.
The annual statements suggest  that they were rolled over periodically - generally but not 
always annually - with the renewal  dates appearing on the statements. Mr H sets out what  
his expectations  were in his letter  to Lloyds of 22 October 2018. Mr H mentions  that prior to 
the June 2014 renewal  of the facility  that he met his bank manager and completed and 
signed further loan paperwork - which was never  sent out to him  and of which the bank 
says it has no record. Mr H says that at these meetings he expressed  his concern that the 
borrowing was secure until his youngest child left school in 2021. Mr H notes that the 
manager confirmed  that he understood and supported my case. In Mr Hs email of 
26 February 2018 Mr H says I was led to believe that all three term loans were being  
arranged over the same/similar periods as their loan ending in 01 and that is what was 
represented to me by (the bank manager) on behalf of the bank.
My view of the evidence is that in 2014 Mr H wanted  to transfer the matured  interest-only  
loans into a further loan agreement for seven years  until 2021 and got support from his bank 
manager. But this didnt happen. If it did I would  have expected to see a loan agreement 
setting those terms out and there isnt one. There is a separate capital repayment loan 
agreement entered  into in 2014 for a smaller amount. If the bank had agreed to transfer the 
matured interest-only  loans into a new loan agreement, I would have expected  to see similar 
documentation but there is none. It does seem  from what  Mr H says that an application may 
have been made as he says he signed some  paperwork but nothing appears  to have come 
from it. 
So, it seems  that the situation continued  as previously  where  the matured loans were rolled 
over at the discretion of the bank. Mr H has an accountancy qualification with extensive 
experience in dealing with financing  arrangements.  Mr and Mrs H should have been aware 
that without a new loan agreement they had no agreement from the bank to extend  the loan 
Ref: DRN30277173period beyond the renewal period. It seems that partly  as a result  of a sympathetic bank 
manager, the bank was prepared to roll over these  loans until March 2017. But in the 
absence of a replacement loan agreement, Mr and Mrs H were  always  exposed to the 
possibility of the bank requiring the repayment of these loans when it reviewed the lending. 
After March 2017 the bank provided additional  time for a consensual sale.  The loans were 
closed at the end of March 2018 and transferred into an overdraft facility which, until the end 
of September  2018, had the same rate of interest  as on the loans. But because there was no 
progress on the sale the bank withdrew the overdraft  facility on 30 September 2018.
My view is that the bank  has dealt  fairly  with Mr and Mrs H. These loans became due 
sometime ago. The original intention  of paying off the loans by way of a share sale proved 
impossible and the bank facilitated  Mr and Mrs H by rolling over the loans. Unfortunately the 
paperwork for the loan ending  in 2007 is unavailable but I believe its reasonable to assume 
that it was on similar  terms to the 2006 loan and like the 2006  loan became due and was 
rolled over as a matured  loan. Mr and Mrs H enjoyed this facility  for sometime  but it was at 
the banks discretion whether to extend  the arrangement or to call it in as it eventually  did. At 
an earlier stage the bank could have applied default interest to the outstanding balance 
under the terms  of the loan agreement  or applied to repossess the property as a result of the 
failure by Mr and Mrs H to repay  the short term loans but didnt.
I consider that the bank also dealt fairly with Mr and Mrs H after March 2017  when it 
indicated on several  occasions that it would work with Mr and Mrs H if they showed progress 
in repaying the debt in a reasonable period. The bank rolled over the interest-only  loans  at a 
favourable interest  rate until March 2018 and then provided an overdraft  at the same  rate for 
six months until the end of September 2018. Unfortunately, there was no indication  of 
progress towards repaying the loan and the bank withdrew the facility.  I dont consider that 
unreasonable. So, for the above reasons,  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3027717