K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the phone calls that hes received from Barclays  Bank UK PLC asking 
him for personal information and about the way that its dealt with his complaint.
background
Mr B complained to Barclays  in February  2018  about the phone calls that hed received 
asking him for personal information. He says that he asked it for a list of the information  that 
it needed but it refused to give him a list so he moved his bank accounts to another bank. 
And he says that it hasnt  responded to his complaint so he complained  to this service.  He 
made a subject access request to Barclays and wasnt satisfied with its response to it so 
complained to Barclays about that. It sent him a disc with recordings  of 25 calls on it and 
paid him £200  compensation.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He felt that the service 
provided to Mr B and the delay in Barclays response to his subject access  request hadnt  
met his expectations so he moved his accounts  elsewhere and this had caused him 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience. So he felt that Barclays  should offer Mr B a further  
£250 to acknowledge what had happened.
Mr B said that hed accept  the investigators recommendation if Barclays  supplied  all call 
recordings from October 2017 to March  2018 regarding the know your customer exercise. 
But Barclays  says that it has requested  copies  of all of those calls that Mr B hasnt  yet 
received but they cant be located despite an extensive search. It apologised for that and 
agreed to pay £250 compensation  to Mr B for the inconvenience caused.
So Mr B has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in 
summary, that Barclays has been able to provide recordings  of calls going back around five 
years and yet it cant provide recordings of the calls that hes asked for. He says that this 
suggests that Barclays is hiding something. And he says that hell start legal proceedings to 
obtain the call recordings. Hes also made  a subject access  request to this service   and 
thats been dealt with separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays is required to take steps  to ensure compliance with know  your customer. Its clear  
that its made calls to Mr B about that. He describes them as nuisance  calls and says that he 
asked it for a list of the information that it needed  but it refused to give him a list. Mr B 
complained to Barclays and there was a delay  in its response  so he complained  to this 
service. Mr B also made  a subject access request to Barclays and there was a delay in its 
response to it. He complained to Barclays and it provided him with a disc with recordings of 
25 phone  calls and paid him £200  compensation.
The investigator recommended  that Barclays should pay him a further £250 because of the 
distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.  Mr B said that hed accept that if 
Barclays provided recordings of the calls that hed requested.
Ref: DRN30186232It says that its made an extensive search  but cant locate the requested calls. I can 
understand the frustration that this has caused  Mr B but Im not persuaded that it shows that 
Barclays is hiding something. And I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Barclays to provide  recordings  of calls that it says that its been unable to locate. 
Mr B has made a subject  access request to Barclays (and to this service) and he says that 
hes going to take legal  action to obtain  those  recordings. 
I consider that £250 (in addition to the £200 that Mr B has already received from Barclays)  is 
fair and reasonable compensation in these circumstances for the distress and inconvenience  
that Mr B has been caused. And I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to require 
it to pay him a higher amount of compensation  or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. And I order  Barclays  Bank  
UK PLC to pay £250 compensation  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3018623