K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained about  Phoenix  Life Assurance  Limited. She is unhappy about the way 
it has handled a redress payment for the mis-sale  of her pension. 
background
Ms B was sold a pension  in 1992.  Phoenix  reviewed the sale in line with the industry  wide 
pension review in 1999. It agreed the pension had been mis-sold and made an offer of 
redress to Ms B but she didnt accept.
Phoenix refused  to reinstate  the offer some years  later and so Ms B made a complaint to this 
service in 2014. During that complaint process Phoenix did agree to reinstate its earlier offer. 
The complaint was considered by an ombudsman who made a decision in 2015. That final 
decision said that the offer Phoenix had made  was fair and reasonable.
After that decision  was made Phoenix  calculated the enhancement that would need to be 
made to the pension  and Ms B accepted. Phoenix then confirmed that the enhancement  had 
been made.
Ms B says her pension statement in October 2015  confirmed her pension fund had been 
enhanced  however, by February  2016, the fund value had fallen to back to a level similar 
to the pre-enhancement value. She thought  the enhancement had been reversed.
Ms B wanted to take her pension benefits  with the enhancement previously agreed.  So she 
complained to Phoenix but the complaint  wasnt resolved  and so it was referred to this 
service. It was considered  by an investigator  and she decided that it should be upheld. She 
asked Phoenix to explain why the enhancement had apparently  been  removed. It responded 
and said that the original  agreement was to calculate Ms Bs loss when  she actually retired.
The investigator reviewed  the correspondence  from the earlier complaint and explained that 
she didnt agree. She felt that there was a clear agreement to enhance the pension  in 2015 
when Ms B accepted the offer. Phoenix had confirmed that the enhancement  was made.
The investigator said that to put things right, Phoenix should reapply the enhancement to Ms 
Bs pension  from October 2015 ensuring it is brought up to date. She also recommended 
that Phoenix pay Ms B £300  as compensation to acknowledge the delay caused in applying 
the enhancement to her pension.
Phoenix responded and agreed  that view. It accepted that it had been unclear about its 
intention to redress Ms B when she took her benefits.
Ms B didnt agree. She said that she had no confidence in Phoenix and the only settlement 
she could accept was for her to receive the full guaranteed pension she would have  received  
in 2018 if the pension  hadnt been  mis-sold to her in the first place.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN33455092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator and with her reasoning. I agree that Phoenix  should pay redress 
in line with the agreement reached  in 2015  which was endorsed by the ombudsman in 2015. 
That decision was final and binding on Phoenix  when it was accepted  by Ms B.
I also agree  that Phoenix should pay Ms B £300  for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
by its handling  of the settlement and the delay this has caused.
I note that Phoenix  has accepted the investigators view and agrees.
Ms B has, in effect,  asked  that we go further and re-examine the original  sale.  Im afraid  that 
I cant do that. Phoenix had made an offer in 1999 which had been assessed in line with the 
industry wide pension  review. It may be true that this offer hasnt in fact put Ms B in the 
position she would have been in but for the bad advice. Thats  due to a number of factors,  
the loss calculations were based on forecasts  and predictions and some  of these havent 
proved to be accurate. And investment  returns over the years  havent been as strong  as was 
expected.
The ombudsman in his final decision  in 2015 explained that he was satisfied that Phoenix 
had followed  the pension review guidance. He also explained that the dispute  resolution 
service in 1999, when  the offer was made, was the Personal Investment Authority 
Ombudsman Bureau and it was, save in exceptional  circumstances, bound  by the pension 
review guidance  issued by the regulator  when deciding on a complaint arising  from the 
pensions review.
That is why the ombudsman considered the offer to be fair and made the decision he did. 
The ombudsmans decision is final and that means that I cant look behind it or make  a 
different decision now.
So whilst I uphold the complaint, I dont have  the power to reconsider  the original sale of the 
policy. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Ms B was hoping  for but I cant  make the decision she 
wants.
Ref: DRN33455093my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited. It must reapply the 
enhancement from October 2015  to Ms Bs pension ensuring it is brought  up to date.  It must  
also pay her £300  for distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3345509