K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  wont  refund a 
payment for goods she says she never received. 
background
Mrs S purchased a phone online for £300  on 29 November  2018. She made  a payment to 
PayPal using her debit card. The seller was then paid using the funds from the PayPal 
account. 
The phone never arrived and Mrs S tried to contact the seller  several  times  unsuccessfully.  
Mrs S then called PayPal requesting a refund as she believed  shed been a victim of a scam. 
But PayPal said it couldnt help her as shed  made  the payment as a friends and family 
payment. These types of purchases are not covered by its buyer  protection. It told her to 
contact her bank for a refund.   
So Mrs S contacted Yorkshire  Bank  to try and get her money back. 
Yorkshire Bank explained to Mrs S it was unable to agree a refund or raise  a chargeback for 
the non receipt  of goods as she hadnt paid the seller directly but had made the payment  via 
a third party (PayPal). It explained under the relevant  chargeback scheme once the third 
party have completed the order and payment  which PayPal had, it wouldve fulfilled its 
contractual obligation and as such is not responsible for anything after this  so it was 
unable to dispute the payment made to PayPal. It suggested Mrs S raise  this with PayPal 
directly.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with Yorkshire  Banks  response, so she contacted  us.
One of our investigators  looked into things for Mrs S. She did not recommend the complaint 
should be upheld.  She said the payment was authorised and authenticated  by Mrs S and 
she didnt think theres anything Yorkshire Bank  couldve done  differently to prevent the 
scam from taking place or recovering Mrs Ss money once it was gone. She explained a 
chargeback can only be raised for transactions made directly  from the card, which  in Mrs Ss 
case was to PayPal  and not the seller of the phone, so she didnt think  Yorkshire Bank  did 
anything wrong  in not taking the chargeback claim against PayPal any further. 
Mrs S remained unhappy  and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Having looked  at everything I spoke to Mrs S in an attempt  to try to explain things and 
resolve matters informally   as she disagreed Im now providing my final decision on this 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, as I explained  to Mrs S 
when we spoke,  Ive reached the same overall  conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mrs S, and I can understand why she wants to do all 
she can to try and get her money back.  But what I need to decide  is whether Yorkshire  Bank 
has done anything  that has caused  Mrs S to lose out.    
Ref: DRN37469232There is no dispute that Mrs S authorised the payment to be made. At the time she wasnt 
aware she was dealing with a scammer and made the card payment for the phone in good  
faith. Ive also taken on board Mrs Ss submission that she did exactly  what the scammer 
had told her to do  by making the payment via PayPal and selecting friends and family 
payment. 
Payments for goods and services - where something goes wrong - which  are made  through 
a debit card can sometimes be recovered  through a chargeback process. As far as 
chargeback is concerned,  its a voluntary scheme  and the rules are laid down by the card 
supplier. There are various  rules which affect these sorts of transactions.  And only if the card 
payment is made in accordance with these rules is a refund possible. 
We usually say to banks that we think its good  practice to try to make a chargeback claim if 
there is a good  reason to. But Yorkshire Bank doesnt have to raise  one, especially  if there is 
little chance of success. In Mrs Ss case she authorised the payment made to PayPal  this 
is the disputed  transaction  for the purposes  of the chargeback  claim.  It was after this 
transaction that PayPal, under authority Mrs S had given it made  a payment to the seller of 
the phone. 
As Mrs S selected this to be a friends  and family payment which  offered no buyer protection 
under PayPals terms, I dont think Yorkshire Bank  did anything  wrong  in not taking  the 
chargeback claim any further against PayPal as it was likely not going to succeed.
I do sympathise with Mrs S, she has been the victim  of a scam  and has lost a considerable 
sum. Im sorry to disappoint, but I dont  think  it would be fair to ask Yorkshire  Bank to refund 
her. My decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve Mrs Ss dispute with 
Yorkshire Bank informally  can do for her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019. 
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3746923