K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc didnt do enough  to help them  when they 
sent money to one of Barclays customers as a result of a scam. 
Although the money was sent from a joint account,  for ease of reading  Ill mostly only refer 
to Mrs M. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  
In February 2019  Mrs M was unfortunately the victim of a scam.  She sent £6,495 from her 
joint account with her own bank H to a scammer whose account was held with Barclays. 
She says at the time she believed  her payment was for a car that shed  found  advertised 
online. But when the car wasnt delivered  as promised and the seller  ceased contact, she 
realised shed been the victim of a scam. 
As soon  as she became aware  of this, Mrs M reported it to the relevant parties including the 
police, H and Barclays. Barclays investigated  but ultimately werent able to return any money 
to Mrs M. Mrs M complained to Barclays, she was unhappy that they werent able to recover 
her money from their customers account. Barclays referred Mrs M to her own bank H and 
said that they vet all account holders and appropriate  checks  are conducted when opening 
accounts. 
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in push payment fraud cases. But Mrs Ms right 
to refer her complaint  about the receiving/beneficiary bank comes  about following changes 
made by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) to our jurisdiction rules - which now allow, in 
limited circumstances,  eligible complainants to refer complaints about receiving banks. 
The matter  was referred to our service and one of our investigators  thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  He recommended that Barclays pay Mrs M £6,495 plus interest.  Barclays  
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
In February 2021  I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld due to the account activity. He 
concluded that Barclays ought  to have flagged the activity on their system and that this 
would have resulted in Mrs M recovering all her money. 
Firstly, I think its important for me to highlight the account in question was newly opened  
so there  wasnt an established pattern of activity  against which  to assess what  was unusual  
for that account.  So, what Ive carefully  thought about is whether or not the activity was 
suspicious enough to warrant  intervention  and/or significantly  outside  what  the bank would 
expect to see based on the type/nature  of the account into which  Mrs Ms funds were 
credited.  
Ref: DRN30064102I cant share the specific details of the third partys  account for data protection reasons. But 
there were incoming payments marked as wages which  were  broadly in line with what the 
customer told Barclays their income  would be. There was general spending as expected  on 
a bank account. And whilst there were some  larger cash withdrawals, its not uncommon  for 
some customers to operate  their account in that way, and I cant say this alone ought to 
have resulted in Barclays being suspicious of that activity. 
Overall, I dont  think Barclays had reason to intervene due to their customers account 
activity. So, I dont  agree they could have prevented Mrs Ms loss in this way. Once Barclays 
were made aware of the scam, they acted  promptly to restrict the account  whilst an 
investigation took place. But, by the time this happened, all of Mrs Ms money had already 
either been withdrawn  or spent. I dont think Barclays are responsible for anything that 
prevented the recovery of Mrs Ms funds. 
For completeness, Ive also looked at the checks Barclays did on opening the account.  
Banks are able to verify their customers in a variety of ways which includes physically 
checking documents as well as electronic checks against Credit  Reference Agencies and 
other known  sources.  Barclays have  explained  their process for doing so and Im satisfied 
that they complied  with their process  when allowing their customer  to open an account. 
Whilst I understand this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, I dont think Barclays are 
responsible for anything  that could reasonably have prevented their loss. Im of course  
sympathetic that theyve  been the victims of a cruel scam and I hope that the authorities  are 
able to prosecute those responsible. But I dont consider the activity  on Barclays  customers 
account to have been so suspicious that I reasonably could  have expected them  to have 
known at the time that there was fraudulent activity taking place. And once they were put on 
notice, Barclays responded promptly.
Mrs M acknowledged  receipt of the provisional decision, but had nothing further to add, 
saying she understood the reasoning. 
Barclays didnt respond to the provisional decision.  
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome previously explained. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2021.
Ref: DRN30064103Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3006410