K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 1988 Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with their mortgage.  The policy covered Mr B 
only for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly benefit of 
£200. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.   
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B during a meeting with B&B, when they were applying for 
a mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say they didnt want PPI but were told they had to have it if they 
wanted the mortgage. They also say that they didnt need the PPI as Mr B was in a secure  
job. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and B&B when they were 
discussing the mortgage and PPI. But I have  been able to look at the mortgage application 
from the time. That has a section about  PPI, and asks that its either completed with the 
amount of cover Mr and Mrs B wanted,  or that they said no to it. Theres  nothing on the form 
that suggests its compulsory, despite Mr Bs recollections. 
B&B says that it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, although Mr and Mrs B say it 
did. I dont think I need to reach a conclusion on this in order  to reach a fair decision.  I say 
this because, whether advised  or not, I am satisfied the policy was suitable given Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances,  because:
 
-Mr B was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. Mrs B wasnt employed at the time, so wouldnt have been eligible. That does 
seem to indicate that some level of discussion took place  before the PPI was set up, and 
that it reflected  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances.
-Mr B says he would  only have received minimal  work-related benefits if he couldnt work 
due to illness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. That might  have been 
important as Mr B was the only wage earner and he told us he and Mrs B had children. 
Ref: DRN31929802So I think Mr and Mrs B would  have  had some use for the policy  despite  any existing 
arrangements.
-Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
B needed better advice or information about  the policys exclusions and limitations. 
-I dont know when  Mr and Mrs B were told the cost of the policy.  But it was relatively low 
cost, and I think Mr and Mrs B were aware they had to pay something for the policy. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit  was insufficient to meet  
their total monthly mortgage repayments,  nor have I seen  that Mr and Mrs B queried  the 
payment over the years.
Its possible that some of the information  the society gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But, on balance, I think  they chose to take out the 
policy and so appear to have  wanted  this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr B wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy  seems  to have been 
affordable, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would  have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have taken out the policy.
I understand Mr B did try to claim on the policy but wasnt  successful. B&B have said that if 
Mr and Mrs B have  any information about this it will look into it for them.  That seems fair to 
me.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
let me know  whether they accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3192980