K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) registered 
adverse information  on his credit file when his account fell into arrears.
background
In December 2017 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  
agreement with VWFS. Mr Gs first monthly payment of £265.30 was due on 13 January  
2018. Mr G set up a direct  debit from his bank account to pay his monthly payments.
The direct debit payment  due in January 2018  was returned. VWFS wrote to Mr G to advise  
him that the payments hadnt been  made and that his account was in arrears. Mr G says he 
didnt receive this letter. The direct debit payment due in February  2018  also failed. VWFS 
wrote to Mr G to advise him that the arrears on his account had increased.
When Mr G received the letter he contacted VWFS. VWFS told Mr G there  was a problem 
with his direct debit and that each time it had tried to claim the payment the direct debit 
instruction had been returned as cancelled.
Mr G paid the arrears on his account  in full on 28 February 2018. Hes unhappy  that VWFS 
registered late payment  markers on his credit file and feels that the business could have 
done more to inform him that his account was in arrears.
In its final response VWFS said it had done  enough  to advise Mr G that his account  was in 
arrears and that it had a duty to report true and accurate information  to the credit reference 
agencies. Mr G wasnt happy with VWFSs response so he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that VWFS had written to Mr G each 
time a payment  was missed and that in doing  so it had done enough to inform  him that his 
account was in arrears.  The investigator also said that VWFS was required to report  the late 
payment information  on Mr Gs credit file.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he hadnt  received  the letter from VWFS  in January 2018 and that 
hed paid the arrears  in full as soon as hed become aware of them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information provided by VWFS that it wrote to Mr G in December 2017 
advising him of his first payment date which  was 13 January 2018.
When Mr G missed his first payment VWFS wrote to him and advised  him that he was in 
arrears of £265.30 and gave  him alternative  ways to pay (other than by direct debit) to bring 
the account up to date.  The letter also warned Mr G that late payments could affect his credit  
file.
I appreciate that Mr G says he didnt  receive  the letter dated 19 January  2018 and wasnt 
aware that his payments hadnt been  successful. Ive looked at the letter and it is correctly  
dated and addressed to Mr G. Based  on this Im satisfied that the letter  was sent.  I cant  say 
Ref: DRN30704132why Mr G didnt receive  the letter but I cant fairly  hold VWFS responsible for any failings by 
the postal service.
I can see that VWFS wrote to Mr G again after the second direct debit payment failed. Mr G 
paid off the arrears  within a short  time of this letter being  sent.  I dont doubt that Mr G 
intended to make payments on time but the fact that Mr G paid off the arrears  doesnt mean 
that VWFs can ignore the late payments.  As a responsible  lender  VWFS is under a duty to 
report late payments to the credit reference agencies.
Ive reviewed Mr Gs credit file and I can see that the late payments  are showing as early  
arrears. The rest of the payments  are showing as up to date. Based on this Im satisfied that 
VWFS has reported accurate information to the credit reference  agencies.
I appreciate that Mr G feels that VWFS could have  done more to bring  the arrears  to his 
attention, such  as by telephoning him or sending him an email. Whilst I understand that Mr G 
might prefer  one form of communication over another,  its not reasonable to require VWFS to 
telephone or email  every customer who falls into arrears. I think  that by writing to Mr G about 
the arrears within  a short time of the payments being missed VWFs has acted  reasonably in 
bringing the arrears  to Mr Gs attention.
I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr G to have checked his bank account to see 
whether his direct debits  had been paid.  I appreciate  that Mr G has said that he didnt have 
access to online banking  at the time. However,  I think he could have checked his account in 
other ways,  for instance, by going into a branch or by ordering a mini statement from the 
cashpoint.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im satisfied  that VWFS has 
done as much as I would expect to bring the arrears  to Mr Gs attention. Im satisfied that the 
late payments have been correctly reported  to the credit reference agencies and therefore  I 
wont be asking VWFS to remove these from Mr Gs credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3070413