K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund numerous  transactions 
totalling £6,250 made  with his debit card which he says he didnt make  or authorise.  
Background
Mr S had a current account with Nationwide. He says that 34 fraudulent  transactions  totalling 
£6,250 were made from his account  between  7 December 2017 and 19 January 2018 to 
three bitcoin  investment companies. I wont be listing  all the disputed  transactions  as both 
parties are of aware  of which transactions are in dispute. 
Mr S called Nationwide to say he didnt make  the disputed transactions. He explained  that 
he wasnt aware of the transactions.  But then told Nationwide  hed been coerced by a 
relative into making the transactions. He then said a third party  had pressured him into 
providing his identification,  so he unwittingly authorised the payments. 
Nationwide investigated  and didnt accept Mr Ss disputed transaction claim. It said Mr S had 
authorised the transactions or made them himself because:
Mr Ss genuine card and unique  Verified by Visa (VbV) password associated  with the 
card was used for all disputed transactions made to company C 
Mr S hadnt provided any plausible  explanation  as to how his bank card and VbV 
password was compromised
the device  and IP address used  to make the disputed transactions  matched the 
device and IP address used to make  genuine  transactions  
Nationwide applied  blocks  to the account  at different times, for different amounts and 
different merchants. But on 9 December 2017,  Mr S called  Nationwide  to confirm the 
payments were genuine and asked for the block to be removed. During the call Mr S 
provided security information to confirm his identity. And told the bank hed 
authorised two disputed transactions for £206.00 and £259.28  made on 9 December 
2017 to different bitcoin companies
On 3 January  2018, Mr S called Nationwide  to confirm hed authorised  four disputed 
transactions for £311.14,  £233.92, £259.28 and £259.28 to a bitcoin company
Mr S had used his card to make genuine transactions  throughout the same period as 
the disputed transactions
Nationwide also highlighted that Mr S had given  several different explanations about 
how and why his account had been  accessed by other people
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and asked him some  additional questions about 
the disputed payments. Initially  Mr S told the investigator that he had no recollections of the 
disputed payments. And hes very careful  with his bank cards  which  he always  kept on him. 
So he cant  understand how his bank details  were used to make the transactions. 
When another investigator spoke to Mr S about  his complaint, he told him that other 
members of his family had access to his phone and bank  details.  And he never  kept his card 
details secure. 
Later he told the investigator  that hed been  the victim of a scam. He said hed met a woman 
via a social media site who gave him information about a potential investment opportunity 
(bitcoins). Mr S says he then received a text message from the woman  containing a link 
which asked him to provide copies of his identity documents. And then spoke  to a woman on 
Ref: DRN38604232the phone  about making  bitcoin investments. Mr S says once hed loaded his documents he 
noticed numerous transactions on his account, which he says he didnt authorise.  So, he 
tried to call the number hed been  provided by the woman, but the number didnt ring 
anymore. 
Mr S also told the investigator that it wasnt him who called Nationwide  to confirm  the 
transactions were  genuine. And to ask that the block Nationwide had applied  to his account  
to be lifted. Mr S says the fraudsters used voice cloning software to impersonate him on the 
call. 
More recently he told the investigator that fraudsters  had managed  to gain remote access to 
his laptop and had used  it to make the disputed transactions.  He said he kept a snapshot of 
all his identification documents on his laptop, so fraudsters would have been able to gain 
access to them. 
The investigator questioned Mr S about why he thought his laptop had been hacked.  And 
Mr S then told the investigator that hed sold his laptop before the disputed transactions  
happened. But when the investigator pointed out that Mr Ss IP address had been used to 
make the disputed transactions using his laptop,  Mr S changed his story  and said hed 
bought back his laptop just before the disputed transactions were made, which  explained 
why his IP address was able to be used remotely by the fraudsters. Mr S said that he had 
since sold his laptop again but when asked by the investigator to provide evidence  to 
support the sale, he wasnt  able to do so. However, he said, even though he didnt know  who 
bought the laptop,  he could get it back.
Having looked  at the sequence of events, the investigator said it was more  likely than not 
Mr S authorised the disputed transactions. Mr S disagreed.  He said he had been the victim 
of a scam  and has been left out of pocket as a result. Mr S also said his health  has been 
impacted and hes been caused a great deal of upset. As no agreement could be reached 
the complaint  has come  to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Mr S had told us about his situation and the 
impact not having  this money has had on his life and Im sorry to hear that the situation  has 
caused Mr S to feel unwell. 
Ultimately, what  I need to decide  in this case is whether the bank can fairly and reasonably 
hold Mr S responsible  for the spending that happened on his account, including  considering  
whether Nationwide ought reasonably to have done more. 
One of the difficulties with this case is that Mr S had provided several  different explanations  
about how he says the disputed transactions were carried out. From whats been said and 
provided by both sides so far, theres not much common ground about exactly what 
happened or how it might have happened.  So, I will have to reach my findings on balance, 
taking a view on what I think is more likely than not to have happened  based on the 
evidence currently available to me. 
Ref: DRN38604233Did Mr S authorise the disputed transactions?
Nationwide is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions  if Mr S didnt make  
or authorise  them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009) and Payment Service  Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Mr S says he didnt  make the payments  to the three bitcoin  companies.  And hes 
seeking a refund of £6,250. So, my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether I 
think Mr S authorised the payments.  
Im satisfied from looking at Nationwides technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine card details 
were used to authenticate  the disputed transactions. From the records I can see that the 
correct card details were entered for each transaction and they were also verified by Visa 
(VbV). 
VbV gives consumers  an added layer of protection  from fraud. When a consumer enters  
their Visa card details, a message box appears which asked  the customer for additional 
security information. This is usually  the customers VbV password or a single-use  code  
which is sent to the customers mobile  phone. If the information provided by the customer  is 
correct, the transaction is put through.  However,  if the information provided  is incorrect then 
the transaction is declined. 
Nationwide has also provided  a screenshot to us of their internal notes system. These notes 
show that it placed security blocks on Mr Ss accounts to verify some  of the disputed 
transactions made to the bitcoin companies.  Following these blocks being applied, Mr S 
called Nationwide  and confirmed the payments as genuine. Nationwide have  provided  call 
recordings of these  calls and Ive listened to them. Ive also listened to the calls Mr S has 
had with our service. And having done so, Im satisfied that more likely than not it was Mr S 
speaking to Nationwide confirming the disputed transactions as genuine  even though Mr S 
has suggested fraudsters  used a voice cloning application to impersonate  him. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has told us about  his theory of fraudsters gaining remote 
access to his laptop. I havent seen  any evidence to support this. And Ive also kept in mind 
that Mr S initially told us that hed sold his laptop  before any of the disputed  transactions  took 
place. But when our investigator pointed out that his IP address was used to make the 
disputed transactions,  Mr S said hed bought his laptop back and then sold it again after the 
disputed transactions.  I have to say that I simply dont find this plausible. And I cant think of 
a logical explanation as to why Mr S would sell, then buy back  and sell his laptop. I also cant  
ignore the fact that Mr S only volunteered this explanation once our investigator pointed  out 
the significance  of the use of his IP address.  And that Mr S cant  provide  any evidence  to 
support what his said about  the sale of his laptop. 
Ive also reviewed Mr Ss account activity.  I can see genuine transactions also took place in 
between the disputed transactions. In addition, I can see that Mr Ss account  was receiving 
regular cash credits which financed  the disputed transactions. I note that the disputed 
transactions took place over two months  and significantly reduced  Mr Ss balance.  So, I 
would have expected Mr S to contact Nationwide much sooner than he did, which was on 12 
February 2018, nearly a month after the last disputed transaction.
In summary,  from looking at the all the available evidence, I dont think  its unreasonable for 
Nationwide to conclude  that Mr S authorised  the transactions. I say this because:
Ref: DRN38604234Mr Ss genuine card and unique  Verified by Visa (VbV) password associated  with the 
card was used for all disputed transactions
Mr S hasnt  provided any plausible explanation as to how his bank card and VbV 
password was compromised
the device  and IP address used  to make the disputed transactions  matched the 
device and IP address used to make  genuine  transactions  
Nationwide applied  blocks  to the account  at different times, for different amounts and 
different merchants. But on 9 December 2017,  Mr S called  Nationwide  to confirm the 
payments were genuine and asked for the block to be removed. During the call Mr S 
provided security information to confirm his identity. And told Nationwide  hed 
authorised two disputed transactions for £206.00 and £259.28  made on 9 December 
2017 to different bitcoin companies
On 3 January  2018, Mr S called Nationwide  to confirm hed authorised  four disputed 
transactions for £311.14,  £233.92, £259.28 and £259.28 to a bitcoin company
having listened to recordings of conversations Mr S made  to us about his complaint, I 
think its more likely  than not it was Mr S speaking in the calls to Nationwide  
confirming the disputed transactions
Mr S had used his card to make undisputed transactions throughout the same  period 
as the disputed transactions
Mr S has given  several different explanations about how and why his account had 
been accessed by other people
So, when I weigh everything up, I think its more  likely than not that Mr S authorised the 
transactions. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide  to refuse him a refund  of 
the disputed transactions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3860423