K820x#14complaint
In 2006, Mrs T took out a credit  card with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). At the 
same time, RBS sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs T thinks that RBS 
mis-sold this policy to her and wants it to refund her all the premiums she paid for it, plus 
interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
RBS had mis-sold the policy  to Mrs T. Mrs T disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her case, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mrs Ts case. Ive looked  into everything that Mrs T and RBS have sent us or 
told us about the complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
RBS has told us that Mrs T applied for the card over the internet. It has sent us a copy  of her 
credit agreement and related letters,  which  mention that Mrs T used its website to submit her 
application; so I am satisfied that RBS is right about the way Mrs T applied  for the card.  
Mrs T has told us at no point was it made clear to (her) that the policy  was optional. But Ive 
looked at the credit  agreement which I think shows that RBS presented  PPI as optional. 
The agreement had a separate  section for insurance. It had some bold text which said 
Optional  Insurance  and offered customers the chance to take PPI, which it called Card  
Payment Protection  Insurance, along  with two other insurance products by ticking boxes 
alongside text which said I wish to purchase  . 
On Mrs Ts form, the box for PPI has been  ticked and the boxes for the other two options  
have been left blank. Mrs T signed the form just below the boxes. Its over a decade  since  
Mrs T applied for her credit card and bought the PPI policy  and I fully accept that she may 
not remember completing the credit agreement, but Im satisfied that RBS told her that PPI 
was optional and that she chose to take it. 
Mrs T has told us that she cant remember if RBS recommended the policy  to her. But RBS 
has told us that it didnt make a personal recommendation. As Mrs T took the card and policy 
over the internet with some follow-up  paperwork  but no discussion, I think that RBS is 
probably right and it sold the policy to Mrs T on an information only basis.  This meant that 
although RBS had to tell Mrs T about  the policy fairly and clearly, it didnt have to check that 
the policy was right for her circumstances. 
The credit agreement didnt say much about the policy. It only gave an outline  of the price 
and mentioned other sources of information  for Mrs T to consider.  I think its quite possible 
that RBS didnt explain the details  of the policy to Mrs T as clearly  as it should have done.  
So Ive looked  into the policys features to see if there were any that would have stopped Mrs 
T from buying it if RBS had told her about  them. 
Ref: DRN35456252From what  Mrs T has said about her circumstances in 2006, she was eligible for the policy  
and wasnt affected  by its main limitations and exclusions. She also seems  to have been 
able to afford it. She has told us that if she was off work ill, she would have  received  
substantial sick pay from her employer. Shes explained that she thinks that this meant that 
the policy was surplus  to her requirements.  I fully accept  that Mrs Ts sick pay would have 
been a useful benefit for her, but as RBS didnt recommend her to take the policy, it didnt 
have to check what sick pay she had. This was something for Mrs T consider. 
So I dont  think that RBS mis-sold the policy to Mrs T. But RBS has paid back  some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium), so it should have  told Mrs T about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3545625