K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1992. 
Mr B says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Very little information is available about  this sale, due to the time that has passed  and we 
have little about Mr Bs circumstances at the time. But Santander has sent a copy of the 
policy terms and conditions. Details of this, including the limitations and exclusions of cover, 
have been set out previously by our adjudicator, along with what  is known  of the policy  
benefits and what  Mr B has told us of his circumstances. As this has not been  disputed,  Ive 
not set out all that information here, but I have referred to some  of the points below.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr Bs representatives  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same  
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. Mr B also requested  a decision. As 
the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think it likely Mr B chose to take the PPI and Santander made it clear he didnt have to 
take it. I say this because I havent seen enough to make me think this wasnt made 
clear. Mr B has said the PPI was just included on a mortgage, referring  to a 2002 sale. 
But the PPI started a decade earlier, so these recollections dont on their own persuade 
me PPI was just included   and I havent anything else to make  me think  this. 
For example, Ive nothing  to make me think Santander wouldnt normally have  given 
consumers like Mr B a choice about  the PPI and got their agreement  before setting it up.
Santander thinks it mightve recommended the PPI to Mr B  and if it did, Santander  had 
to do more. With this in mind, I think its fair to proceed on the basis  that Santander gave 
Mr B advice.  This means Santander  had to check the PPI was right for him. 
The evidence we have  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time doesnt show the policy was 
unsuitable for him. For example,  Ive seen nothing to make  me think  Mr B wasnt eligible 
Ref: DRN32268662for the cover or that he wouldnt  have suffered a loss of income  had he been unable  to 
work for a prolonged period due to disability or redundancy. I say this bearing in mind  he 
was in his early forties at the time,  so within the policy  age limits, and the policy  provided  
cover for up to 36 months  for disability  and 12 months for unemployment. Overall, I think  
it likely  Mr B had a need for the cover, bearing in mind its likely he took the policy to 
provide cover for mortgage payments if he lost his income.
Also, Ive nothing to suggest Mr Bs employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult  
for him to claim  Ive nothing to suggest  he wouldve been affected  at the time by the 
policy limitations related  to unemployment  following temporary contracts or short and 
fixed term contracts, for example. Also, Ive no evidence  the policy wasnt  affordable.
The policy excluded work absences related to recurring health  issues if Mr B had sought 
medical advice for these  in the two years before the policy start. Mr B has told us of two 
health issues he had that started  before the date of this sale - and he saw a specialist 
annually for one of these,  so it wouldve been  excluded. We invited but didnt get more 
detail of how these  issues affected  Mr B at the time of the sale itself. But what hes told 
us doesnt refer to his earlier condition  as having  kept him off work for extended periods - 
I say this bearing in mind  the cover  was intended for longer term work absences, as it 
paid nothing for the first eight weeks of absence  but payments could be paid for up to 
three years after that  and, notwithstanding the operations and treatments hed had for 
it, the same can be said for the other health  issue (which he said started in his twenties).
On balance what have  doesnt make me think Santander ought  to have considered  long 
work absences arising from these  issues to be so likely that their exclusion would make 
the cover  unsuitable  for Mr B - taking into account  what the policy  would still cover. Mr B 
mentioned other health issues but from hes told us these were after the date of this sale.  
Id add that aside from the provisions relating to the recurrence of pre-existing conditions,  
there were no additional restrictions on cover  for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think  he chose to take it - so it looks to me like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Also, it wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for him, as I concluded above. 
Mr B couldnt have claimed  for all he wouldve expected, as work absences related to 
health issues for which hed sought  medical  advice  in the two years before the policy  
start werent covered  as Ive discussed.  But, as Ive said,  it seems the PPI wouldve still 
been useful for him, given what it did cover.
Also I dont think the cover was in other respects too dissimilar to what its likely Mr B 
wouldve thought  he was buying from the information he had. I say this bearing in mind 
that I think it unlikely  he wouldve  chosen to take the cover without having at least a 
broad understanding of the cover it provided. With this and all Ive said above in mind, I 
dont think Mr B wouldve  declined the cover had Santander done  more.
Overall, I consider Mr B wouldve still taken  the PPI. Given his circumstances, I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work in the circumstances 
the policy covered.  I also think  the it was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he 
was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken  the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
Ref: DRN32268663PPI complaints; these  policies represented poor value  because of the number of significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.  Mr Bs representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3226866