K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that due to failings by Lawrence  Clarke Limited (LCL), an appointed 
representative of Best Practice IFA Group  Limited,  he lost over £13,000. 
In particular, Mr W says that, due to failings  by LCL, the transfer of his Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) benefits  to a Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) was not completed  by 
the date the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) expired. 
A new transfer value  was subsequently provided. The new transfer value was over £13,000 
lower.
In order to resolve this matter Mr W wants LCL to pay him the amount his transfer value was 
reduced by.
background
The Cash  Equivalent Transfer Value  (CETV)  provided by Mr Ws former employers OPS 
trustees dated 15 August 2016 set out:
1)The transfer value  is guaranteed until 12 November 2016
2)Your decision to proceed must  be registered with us in writing  before the expiry  of the 
guarantee period.
3)The transfer value  must be paid within a further  3 months  of the expiry of the 
guarantee period.
4) If the transfer  is not requested before the expiry  of the guarantee period, there is at 
least a 12 month gap before we are required to provide a further  transfer value quotation. 
We may therefore, refuse to provide a further  quotation until 12 August  2017.
Mr W contacted  LCL on 8 September  2016 to set up a meeting to discuss  transferring his 
OPS pension.
Best Practice/LCL has provided the following timeline:
15/09/2016 Follow  up meeting to complete our client  fact find, risk questionnaire and service 
charter. Letter authorising [the OPS]  to provide information to us signed.
15/09/2016 Letter sent to [the OPS] to request  plan information.
19/09/2016 [the OPS] sent copies  of information previously sent to [name of another  IFA 
Mr W had approached previously]. Paperwork stated that no discharge forms will be issued 
for signature  until they have written confirmation from you that you wished to proceed.
21/09/2016 Transfer analysis report prepared. Requested transfer  analysis report from a 
third party.
30/09/2016 Transfer analysis report received.
Ref: DRN33199392Ongoing Contacting providers of reports to question figures and assumptions.  Drafting 
suitability report and preparing addendums for report.
26/10/2016 Checking with [the OPS] to confirm requirements to secure transfer value - she 
confirmed that an instruction  from you was required in writing. [name of LCL adviser] called 
you to confirm.
27/10/2016 Report and paperwork sent for pre-approval from our network.
09/11/2016 Pre-approval received. Phoned you twice  to confirm that we had approval but 
required paperwork - no response  - message left.
10/11/2016 Phoned you twice - no response. Letter hand delivered by [name of LCL 
employee].
11/11/2016 Phoned you - no response.
12/11/2016 Guaranteed transfer value expiry date.
14/11/2016 Meeting with [name of LCL adviser]  at office. Phoned [OPS] and she confirmed 
that the transfer value would need  to be recalculated. You also spoke to [OPS].  Emailed  
[OPS] to request  a revised transfer  value.
It appears that LCL was unable to get hold of Mr W as he was out of the country on holiday 
from 23 October 2016 until 12 November 2016  inclusive.  Mr W says he had told LCL he 
would not be contactable while he was on holiday.
As Mr Ws CETV had expired a new transfer value was requested. The new transfer value 
was £390,603 - a drop in value of £13,648 from the previous CETV. 
Mr W went ahead with the transfer, despite  the new transfer value being over £13,000 lower. 
In early 2018 Mr W complained. He said he felt LCL was responsible for missing  the 
deadline set by his OPS.  He said he felt it should  compensate him for the fall in the transfer 
value.
Best Practice did not uphold Mr Ws complaint against its appointed representative LCL.  It 
said LCL had not provided Mr W with documentation to sign to go-ahead with the transfer 
before he went away on holiday as it was not allowed to obtaining approval from a client  until 
the advice to transfer had been checked to ensure it was suitable.
Mr W was not satisfied  with Best Practices response and referred his complaint to this 
service. He said LCL had  made  it quite  clear that time had been  lost as I changed from 
another IFA, however, they failed to tell me that I would need to tell my pension  company in 
writing prior to me going on holiday, which once done would then trigger  another 3 months in 
which the transfer could take place. Incidentally they were fully aware of the dates I would be 
away
Our adjudicator said he thought Mr Ws complaint  should be upheld in part. 
He explained  that if a consumer wants to transfer benefits from an OPS that provides 
guaranteed benefits (where the fund value is over £30,000) they are required to get advice, 
Ref: DRN33199393before they can go ahead with the transfer. This requirement is intended to protect  
consumers from giving  up the guaranteed benefits  of their OPS  pension without fully 
understanding the long term implications.
He said that the timescale for completing  the transfer was already quite tight when Mr W 
approached LCL in September 2016.  Once  Mr Ws holiday plans were taken into account  
the timescale was very tight.  As Best Practice had explained, once LCL had made its 
recommendation it needed to get this reviewed before it could present it to Mr W. And it 
wasnt allowed to ask Mr W to contact the OPS trustees to register  his decision to go ahead 
with the transfer  until its advice  had been  reviewed by Best Practice.
Our adjudicator was of the view that LCL should have made Mr W aware  of the very tight 
timescale at the outset  in order to manage his expectations. He also said that if LCL hadnt 
asked for the dates  Mr W would be on holiday  and out of contact  it should  have done so 
as this was a key factor  in assessing whether there  would be enough time for the advice 
process to be completed before the CETV  expired on 12 November 2016.
From the information available  he said it appeared unlikely that LCL had spoken  to Mr W on 
26 October 2016 as Mr W had provided evidence to this service  that he was out of the 
country at the time. On reflection LCL said it thought it had left a message for Mr W and it 
confirmed it had not spoken to him after he went on holiday.
Our adjudicator said he was of the view that LCL should have explained to Mr W that, if the 
advice process hadnt been competed before he went on holiday  and Mr W was not going 
to be contactable  while he was away  it wouldnt be possible for the transfer to go ahead 
before the CETV expired on 12 November 2016.
But he also said that both Mr W and LCL would have been aware from the CETV quotation 
what the timescales were  and what the requirements were. He said he didnt think  it was fair 
to say that LCL should have completed  the transfer analysis and provide the reports to Mr W 
in time to meet the CETV deadline. As this was the case he said he didnt think it would be 
appropriate to expect LCL to compensate Mr W for the reduction in the transfer value.
But he said he thought  LCL should  have managed Mr Ws expectations better. In order  to 
put matters right he said he felt Best Practice should  pay Mr W £500  for the trouble and 
upset this matter had caused.
Neither party accepted our adjudicators  view.  
Mr W said:
The more  I think about it, my situation  now seems  to have been inevitable.
My adviser was aware  of my intention  to go on holiday  and that I would not be contactable, 
fact. She was aware that I would not be returning  until after the shut off date, fact.
Clearly she failed to find out from my pension company prior to both mine, and her own 
holiday, that I would have  to contact them prior to release of funds  despite  me signing all the 
relevant paperwork.
Her failure  to have  understood that, and informed me prior to my holiday, thus avoiding  the 
problem, is what has caused this situation and my loss.
Ref: DRN33199394He also said he understood that LCL had only handled a few pension  transfer cases  and he 
would question their experience in fully understanding  and finalising such cases as mine.
Best Practice said our adjudicators view was based on what you have been told by the 
client rather than any formal meetings or recorded  conversations you have transcripts of. It is 
clear that Lawrence  Clarke knew the client was away but had been given no instructions that 
he was not contactable.
It also reiterated that Mr W would have been aware  that there was a definitive timescale to 
get the advice and transfer paperwork completed  before  the CETV expired and it was his 
choice to go on holiday before the transfer was complete. It said it felt LCL had not unduly  
delayed the transfer and had done everything they could to advise Mr W of the timescales 
involved.
As neither party accepted our adjudicators view, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me 
to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
view as our adjudicator, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
advice process for OPS  transfers
In order to assess whether transferring benefits from a defined benefits scheme is suitable 
financial advisers usually  carry  out a transfer value  analysis (TVAS) and write a report  
setting out their advice  on what the consumer should do. As weighing  up the risks and 
benefits involved can be complicated this isnt something advisers  are usually  able to do 
quickly. I think LCL would have known  that advising Mr W on transferring his OPS  pension 
was something that would take time.
It would also have  known  that, if it advised Mr W to ahead with the transfer, it would need to 
get its advice  to transfer reviewed before it could ask Mr W to register  his decision to 
proceed with the trustees of the OPS. 
So LCL would have  known  that it had a number of steps to complete before it could present 
its advice to Mr W. As the CETV expired on 12 November  2016, it had under two months 
from the date it met Mr W, to competed the process.
timings
It is not in dispute  that Mr W told his adviser that he was going on holiday in late October 
2016. What is in dispute is whether Mr W told LCL that he wouldnt be contactable on 
holiday. 
I think this is something LCL should have asked  Mr W about. LCL says Mr W didnt give 
instructions that he was not contactable. But, as the deadline for completing the transfer 
before the CETV expired was tight, I think it should have established whether Mr W would be 
contactable while he was on holiday.
Ref: DRN33199395If it had discussed  this with Mr W it would have been aware that it wouldnt be able to reach 
him from 23 October 2016 until after the CETV had expired. LCL would then have been able 
to manage Mr W expectations and explain that there was a real risk that it would  not be in a 
positon to present Mr W with its recommendation before  he went  on holiday. And it could 
have explained  that until it had made a positive recommendation to transfer it couldnt ask 
Mr W to notify  the OPS trustees that he wanted  to go ahead  with the transfer.
notifying OPS trustees
Mr W says he told LCL at the outset that he wanted  to go ahead  with the transfer. He says 
he though he had signed all the necessary  paperwork for the transfer  happen. But Mr Ws 
understanding isnt correct.
In the letter  containing the CETV  (dated 15 August 2016) the OPS trustees set:
Your decision to proceed must be registered with us in writing  before the expiry  of the 
guarantee period.
So I think Mr W had been informed that he would need to tell the pension  scheme  trustees 
that the wanted to go ahead with the transfer. I do accept however, that Mr W may have 
thought that LCL could  do this on his behalf.
Mr W says that he thinks LCL failed to find out from my pension  company prior to both 
mine, and her own holiday,  that I would have to contact them prior to release of funds  
despite me signing all the relevant paperwork.
Her failure  to have  understood that, and informed me prior to my holiday, thus avoiding  the 
problem, is what has caused this situation and my loss.
But, as I set out above, Mr W wouldnt have been  permitted  to notify the OPS  trustees  that 
he wanted to go ahead  with the transfer until he had received LCLs  advice. This is to 
prevent consumers making  decisions on transferring  valuable  benefits from defined benefit  
pension schemes  without taking advice.
is LCL responsible  for the transfer not being completed before CETV expired?
Having carefully considered the steps  LCL needed to take, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to say LCL should have completed  the transfer analysis and provided its advice 
to Mr W before the CETV  expired. 
As this is the case, I dont think it would be fair to expect LCL to compensate Mr W for the 
reduction in the transfer value.
By the time Mr W approached LCL for advice on transferring his OPS benefits  only two 
months were  left before his CETV expired. As Mr W was going on holiday, and would not be 
contactable for three weeks from 23 October  2016,  LCL would have needed to complete its 
advice process in around five weeks in order for the transfer to go ahead  assuming that 
LCL recommended  that Mr W should  transfer his benefits.
LCL also needed to get its advice checked before it could present its recommendation to 
Mr W. This added a further time constraint to an already tight deadline.
Ref: DRN33199396But I do think LCL should have very clearly explained to Mr W that completing the transfer by 
12 November 2016 would  be very challenging.  I also think  I should  have explained the 
process so that Mr W understood that he could only notify the OPS trustees that he wanted  
to go ahead with the transfer once he had received LCLs transfer advice. So if the advice 
was not ready before  he went on holiday  and he was not going  to be contactable on 
holiday  he would not be able to meet the CETV  expiry date.
Because of the tight timescales it was likely that the CETV would have to be requoted;  
unfortunately the CETV value  went down.  I cant reasonably say that this could have been 
avoided or that this was LCLs responsibility. 
I must also take into account that it was Mr Ws decision to proceed with the transfer despite 
the reduction in the CETV. If Mr W was unhappy  with the reduced transfer value he could 
have chosen not to go ahead.
In view of LCLs failure  to manage  Mr Ws expectations, I think  Best Practice should  pay him 
£500.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order to resolve  this matter I order Best 
Practice IFA Group Ltd to pay Mr W £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3319939