K820x#14complaint
Ms R is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited wont cover her claim for cracking  to her 
property caused  by roof spread. 
background
In April 2018 Ms R contacted esure  after she discovered cracking in one of her upstairs 
rooms. She told it that shed been  told the cause was either roof spread or subsidence. It 
was explained  to her by esure that roof spread  wouldnt be covered but subsidence  would. 
Because she didnt  want  to make a claim if it was going to be declined, she had an engineer 
look at the problem and they reported  back that the likely cause  was roof spread. She 
decided to make a claim to esure as she felt the cause should  be covered. She further 
thought that esure should pay the cost of her engineers report.
After considering the claim  esure  said the damage wasnt covered under  her policy   it 
pointed out the general  exclusion for wear  and tear which included loss or damage which  
happened gradually over time. It didnt consider that it should pay for the engineers report.
After referral to this service our investigator  said that the damage  wasnt  covered under the 
policy.
Ms R disagreed and pointed out that she had accidental damage cover  and felt that the 
damage came under  that. She pointed out that it wasnt  wear  and tear and also that the 
policy had cover for  payment of professional fees.
Our investigator pointed  out that there was a general exclusion in the policy which  included  
loss or damage which happened gradually over time. He further  advised  that although there 
was cover for  professional fees that only applied to fees incurred in relation to damage 
insured by the policy.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no cover in the policy for roof spread  its not something that would be covered by 
any ordinary home  insurance  policy. As our investigator has explained such policies cover  
specific perils and it is for the policyholder to show that its likely that the claim is covered 
under the policy.
Ms R says the claim should be covered  as accidental  damage. She does have  that cover  
under her policy as follows:
We will pay for accidental  loss of or damage to Your Buildings or Contents as a direct result  
of a single, unexpected and unintended event which is not a result  of any causes* listed 
above.
*i.e. any other peril" listed in the policy
Ref: DRN36073952Essentially accidental damage  cover is for a single event. But if it could be argued  that roof 
spread is accidental damage  there  is a general exclusion (applying to the whole 
policy)whereby esure will not pay for loss, damage or any liability resulting directly or 
indirectly from Wear and tear which includes  loss or damage that happens gradually 
over time.  
There are a number of examples of this listed in the policy  including  other  gradual  
deterioration" 
I think that roof spread  is clearly something  which has happened  gradually over time.  
I appreciate that Ms R doesnt  believe that it is wear and tear but I think  it is a form of wear 
and tear in terms  of the policy cover in question,  as shown by the wording of the exclusion 
Ive set out above. So I think it was fair for esure to apply the exclusion.
As for the engineers report I am sorry that Ms R had to pay this out without getting a refund 
from esure. But as our investigator pointed out, the cover for professional  fees only applies 
to damage insured by the policy.  However, Ms R does at least know  what is needed  to be 
done to repair the property, even  if it is unfortunately not covered by her insurance.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3607395