K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain on behalf  of their company, D, that Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
has treated it unfairly in respect of its data collection requirements. 
background
Company D opened a business account with Santander in March  2011. In February 2018, 
as part of its ongoing regulatory  responsibilities, Santander sent a nine-page questionnaire 
to D, asking for updated and additional data. 
Mr W didnt want  to provide this information.  He felt that Santander already had some of this 
from 2011 when  the account was opened,  and he was concerned as to why it needed more, 
and who it would be shared with. So he didnt  complete the form. 
By September 2018,  when the completed  form wasnt returned,  Santander  wrote  to D 
explaining that without the information  it may have to restrict access to the account.  It gave 
30 days notice.
Mr W called  Santander and explained  his position.  He said that he was busy  with his 
business, and didnt have time to complete the form. Besides which, he didnt think 
Santander needed, or was entitled  to, the further information it was asking for. He said he 
disagreed with its data protection  statement.
Two extensions beyond the 30 days  in the September  2018  letter  were given to D to provide 
the information, but when  it didnt access to the account was restricted. This meant  D wasnt 
able to insure or pay its employees, and Mr and Mrs W had to find money from elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs W complained on Ds behalf. They said Santander had treated it unfairly; that it 
didnt think its processes/position  on data protection were correct; that it didnt have the right 
to request the information it had; that it had acted in a threatening manner  when it said it 
would restrict access to Ds account; and that Mr W had had to spend a good number of 
hours sorting  matters  out  which took him away from his business. Mr W also said hed 
specifically asked Santander to restrict his data,  but this hadnt  been done.
Santander replied,  saying  that it was only complying  with its legal and regulatory  
requirements, and that the terms and conditions of Ds account  allowed  it to. It apologised if 
its letter explaining  the likely  account  restriction came over as threatening. But it didnt  think  
it had made  a mistake, or acted unfairly,  so it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W brought Ds complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator looked into matters, and issued a view saying she didnt think Santander  
had treated D unfairly, and that it was acting in accordance with its own regulatory  and legal  
obligations when  seeking further  information from D.
She explained that specific points regarding Data Protection law, and the concern Mr W had 
about asking to restrict is data, were  matters for the Information Commissioners Office, and 
that the issue of Santanders legal ability to restrict Ds account was for the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  
Mr and Mrs W asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN30063042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Santander hasnt treated D 
unfairly.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs W, and Id like to 
explain why I think its fair to both parties.  
Santander works within its own commercial discretion,  but also requires to satisfy legal and 
regulatory requirements. Its commercial decisions tend to be ones we cant  interfere with 
(unless theyre illegal  or clearly unfair). Its regulatory  processes are the responsibility of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. And its legal obligations are ultimately  a matter for the courts.  
Santander is entitled to seek information from its customers  to satisfy each of these three  
considerations. As has been explained  to Mr and Mrs W, it was asking for the 
updated/additional information because its required to do so in order to comply with anti-
money laundering and know-your-client processes. As D opened its account seven years 
earlier, I also dont think it was unreasonable to expect  an update  particularly when the 
work of the business changed  from consultancy to defence work. 
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties. In particular, Ive considered the 
terms and conditions of Ds account, as well as the data protection  statement. This says:-
Confidentiality
We treat any information you give us confidentially. On joint applications your  information may be shared 
with the other applicant  and you must  have
their permission to provide  their information. We may  share  the information with other companies  in the 
Santander Group, our associated companies
and with  our service providers and agents,  some of whom may  be in other  countries. We may do this so 
they can manage your account and to help us
develop and improve our products  and services.  We will ensure your information  is used in line with our 
own strict confidentiality policies  and as required
under the UK Data Protection Act. Information  may be shared with our regulators for regulatory purposes. 
We may use the information to provide you
with products and services  and for marketing purposes.  If you dont want to receive marketing information, 
just tell us. If we decide  to send you marketing
about a credit  product, well check  your  details at the credit reference agencies to see if it is appropriate to 
send you the marketing, but a record of this
will not be seen by other lenders searching your  file. You have a right to see certain records  that we hold 
about you. There is a fee for doing this.
Put simply
The information you give us is treated  confidentially, in line with the Data Protection Act. You can ask to see 
a copy of the information  held  about you.
Im satisfied that this provision is clear as to why data is required, and what  it may be used 
for. I also think  its reassuring in respect  of the confidentiality of a customers data. It also 
gives the option to opt-out of marketing,  if thats a customers concern.
So I cant say Santander acted unfairly in asking D for the information in its questionnaire. 
Ref: DRN30063043Mr W has a specific  concern  about his request to restrict his data, and I agree that this issue 
is one that should be put to the consideration of the Information Commissioners  Office. 
While I can see why it would be frustrating for him to not receive an answer  to his specific  
request here and I hope the ICO can answer it, I dont think  this was justification for failing to 
provide Santander  with even some initial information  back  in 2018  nor for matters  dragging  
out for this long.  
I note that Santanders already apologised if its September 2018 letter came across as 
threatening. I dont  agree  that it was, but Im pleased to see Santander acknowledging its 
customers concerns. 
I see that Mr W spent  a large number of hours   over 60  in dealing  with this matter. As our 
investigators already  explained, this complaint is brought on behalf of company D. And we 
cant therefore take into account  stress and worry suffered  by individuals  although  in some 
circumstances we can look at inconvenience suffered on the companys behalf.
However, because  my principal finding is that Santander hasnt  done  anything wrong, I cant  
then consider making any compensatory award   whether to company D or Mr and Mrs W.
I believe that Mr and Mrs Ws concerns were genuine, and can see that theres been a lot of 
time spent  on this complaint, and matters related to it. But Im afraid I dont believe the 
complaint was well-founded to begin with. Santander was asking for information it was 
entitled to, and I think it tried to explain this and assist D as much as it could. It even said 
that Mr W could  only part-fill the questionnaire  and it would let him know if there was 
anything else it needed. But this wasnt even done.
From a commercial perspective, its up to Santander  who it decides to have as its 
customers, and they in turn have  to accept their account terms and conditions. D did this. 
And from a legal and regulatory perspective, by failing to provide the information requested  
even in a sparse  form initially  D was compromising Santander. So when it eventually 
restricted the account  after two extensions   I dont think it had any other choice. I cant  
say that it behaved unreasonably or unfairly. I think it tried to work with Mr W, and that had 
he made the same effort, the account restriction and subsequent worry and inconvenience  
could have been avoided. 
For all these reasons, Im unable to say Santanders acted unfairly,  and I wont  be upholding 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W, on 
behalf of D, to accept  or reject my decision before  23 February 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3006304