K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited made an error in not calling him to 
renew the commercial  vehicle insurance policy for his business. As a result,  the car Mr D 
was driving was uninsured when it was involved in an accident.
 
background
Atlanta issued a renewal  notice to Mr D in December 2018.  On 9 January 2019  he called 
and was given  a quote for £821.11.  He called back to accept it on 12 January 2019. The 
policy was due to lapse the next day. Atlanta said an adviser would call Mr D back  to get the 
policy renewed, but that didnt happen. Two days later Mr D went  abroad on business. Three 
months later hed just returned from another business trip when the accident took place. He 
rang Atlanta to make a claim and found the policy had lapsed in January 2019. 
Atlanta said it had made an error  in not calling Mr D back, but that he should  have  contacted 
it again. It also said he should have noted that he hadnt been charged for the policy or been 
sent any documents. Mr D said hed been a loyal customer  for many years,  so Atlanta 
should try to help him by backdating  the policy and covering the third partys costs.  
As Atlanta didnt  change its decision, one of our investigators reviewed  Mr Ds complaint. He 
thought it was reasonable for Mr D to assume his policy had been renewed, as hed told 
Atlanta he wanted  to renew it. He said Atlanta hadnt sent Mr D notice of the policy lapsing, 
so Mr D shouldnt be penalised  by Atlantas error.  He thought  it should  reinstate the policy 
and consider the claim made in April 2019.   
Atlanta said the fact that it didnt call Mr D back wasnt a reason  for him to believe he was 
insured. It said buying the policy was a transaction involving  full payment for cover on a 
commercial vehicle. Mr D wasnt  charged, as cover was never in place. Atlanta said he could 
have checked  his bank accounts  from abroad. It also said he could have  called it. It asked 
for a review  of the complaint by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Theres no dispute about the fact that Atlanta made an error. An adviser should have called 
Mr D back to set up the renewal and to take a payment  for the new policy. But I think  its fair 
to say that the onus was on Mr D to ensure that the vehicle was insured. He knew the end of 
the policy was imminent. And its clear  from the relevant call recording that the policy  wasnt  
renewed when  Mr D called Atlanta on 12 January  2019. In my opinion  it was reasonable for 
Atlanta to say that Mr D should have called  it again  before the policy lapsed. 
Mr D was busy and it seems  he was abroad for much of the next three months on business. 
But I dont think that means he couldnt have done  something during that period to ensure 
the vehicle was covered. As Atlanta pointed  out, Mr D would still have had access  to his 
bank accounts,  so he could have noted that the £821.11 due for the premium hadnt  been 
charged. And Mr D could  also have called Atlanta during that time to check the situation. 
Insurers dont usually  confirm that a policy has lapsed, so I dont think Atlanta was wrong not 
to do that. It had given  due notice of the need  to renew the policy.
In my opinion, Atlanta  shouldnt have to consider the claim, as it happened when no 
insurance was in place. But I think Mr Ds business was disrupted when he found that he 
couldnt drive the vehicle  for business  purposes. He had to contact Atlanta to check what 
Ref: DRN38635492had happened. There were calls between them over a few days. Mr D then had to then 
arrange insurance elsewhere.  As I think Atlanta was partly to blame  for the inconvenience 
caused to the business,  I think it should  pay £100 compensation
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Atlanta accepted them,  but Mr D 
didnt. He said the compensation I proposed wasnt enough, given the time hed spent 
chasing Atlanta  and what had happened since the accident. He said hed paid for a written-
off car, was yet to repair  his own car and was putting a personal injury  claim together.  Mr D 
also pointed out that wed told him previously that he had every right to be upset with Atlanta 
and should be reimbursed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr D was disappointed  with my provisional decision, as the investigator  
thought the complaint should  be upheld. Atlanta didnt  agree with that view, so it had the 
right to ask for it to be reviewed. Mr D may have thought Id agree with the investigators 
conclusions. So he may have been shocked when - after considering all the facts - I wasnt 
able to do that. But I explained why I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld,  subject  to 
any further comments or evidence from the parties.
I think Mr Ds comments show hes faced financial loss and other difficulties  since  the 
accident. I sympathise  with Mr D, given  the position hes found himself in. But he hasnt said 
anything that alters my view of his complaint. 
I think the onus  was on Mr D to insure  his car. Atlanta  should  have  called him back as 
promised, but I dont think its failure  to do so relieved Mr D of the responsibility for ensuring 
cover was in place. He knew the policy was going to end the next day if it wasnt renewed. 
The adviser he spoke  to said it would be renewed in the promised call. So I think it was clear 
that in the absence of that call, the policy hadnt been  renewed. I remain  of the view that 
Mr D should have called Atlanta to query  why he hadnt been called and to renew the policy.  
He could have  done that the next day or at some point during the next three months. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr D and Atlanta again. In one of them  Mr D said his 
business insurance renews when he tells the insurer  he wants  it renewed.  He said that after 
that point he gets an invoice, but cover is in place straight away. I cant comment  on that 
business arrangement, but it isnt the way motor insurance is normally arranged.  I think the 
adviser made it clear  what the situation  was by stating (twice) that someone would call Mr D 
back to get the policy  renewed. There may well have been an element of confusion on 
Mr Ds part, given what hes said about his business  insurance. But I dont think  Atlanta can 
be blamed for that.    
I dont think theres a basis for increasing  the compensation for the inconvenience and 
disruption caused to the business. Atlanta accepts that it made  an error, which  amounts  to 
poor service on its part. But in my opinion  that only played a small part in what  followed.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Atlanta 1 Insurance  Services 
Limited to pay Mr D £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused to his business. 
Ref: DRN38635493Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3863549