K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Virgin Money  plc failed  to make him aware  he was only making  the 
minimum payments to his credit card, so incurring interest. 
background
Mr C had a credit card with M, a card provider, for many years which was linked to an air-
miles programme. In September  2018 M stopped  offering  the air miles service  and Mr C said 
it was taken over by Virgin Money. He said he had to complete a new online credit card 
application which he did and was immediately accepted for a new card. Mr C said he 
assumed all the payment and billing preferences would be kept the same;  paying  the full 
balance every month and receiving paper  statements.  His new cards and passwords arrived  
and he started to use them as normal. 
In April 2019 Mr C logged  into this account and realised he had a balance  in excess  of 
£8,000 and that only minimum payments  had been taken. By way of a complaint he 
immediately asked Virgin Money to change the account to take the full balance each month 
and asked for the interest to be refunded. 
In its final response letter  Virgin  Money did not uphold  the complaint. It said it didnt agree 
that it hadnt informed Mr C the direct debit would be set up for the minimum payment. Virgin  
Money also said it advised Mr C statements would be set up online but he could change  to 
paper statements once the account was up and running.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this response and brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
didnt recall receiving a text and had he done  so he would most likely  have deleted  it based 
on past experience  of text scams.  He also said he hadnt received any emails saying that 
statements were available  online. 
The investigator felt Virgin Money  should  have done more to help Mr C. During our
investigation Virgin Money acknowledged  it hadnt  sent Mr C a text message. The
investigator didnt  think  Mr C wouldve reasonably been aware that Virgin  Money would only
take minimum payments  by default.  And that because Mr C had been a customer  of M for
many years it was reasonable for him to assume  things would stay the same  when the
account switched.
Virgin Money wasnt satisfied with the view of our investigator. It said the investigators  view 
contradicted outcomes it had previously received for other  similar complaints and that it had 
been clear regarding minimum payments and online statements.
I issued a provisional decision to Mr C on 14 October. In summary I was satisfied that Mr C 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware that Virgin Money would take only the minimum 
payment unless instructed otherwise. And so I wasnt minded to instruct Virgin  Money to 
refund the interest Mr C paid when he was only making the minimum payments or to pay 
him compensation for this. But I could see that Mr C wanted to clear his balance  in good 
faith but Virgin Money did not explain, or explain clearly enough, how he could do that 
without interfering  with the direct  debit process. And so I was minded to instruct Virgin  
Money to pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Both Mr C and Virgin Money disagreed with my assessment. Virgin Money provided a copy  
of the phone call on 5 April 2019 and both parties  provided further  commentary. 
Ref: DRN30338522I issued a second provisional decision on 2 December  2019. I said: 
Virgin Money disagreed  that £100 compensation is justified or that it didnt explain  
clearly how the customer could clear the balance. It said in its monthly statements it 
explains that it will collect the payment even if the customer makes additional manual 
payments. It also said it processed  a credit balance refund  and returned  the funds to 
Mr C. It provided  a copy of the phone  call on 5 April after Mr C received the final 
response. Virgin Money said it wasnt clear what it said to misinform Mr C during this 
call. 
I listened to the call in full. During the call Mr C expressed his dissatisfaction at the 
outcome of his complaint and before going to the ombudsman  service he queried  if 
anything further  could be done by Virgin Money.  Virgin Money referred  Mr C back  to 
the final response and the referral rights to this service. So Mr C said he wanted to 
close the account. Virgin Money  explained  this could only be done once the full 
balance was paid.  Mr C wasnt sure how to deal with the interest part of the balance  
so said he would take advice from this service.  
In his response to my provisional decision Mr C said when  he discovered the issue  
and wanted to settle the full balance immediately  Virgin Money made life difficult, and 
then over charged him making  him overdrawn.
Im satisfied that during this call Virgin Money  did not take the opportunity to explain 
that it would  still take the payment by direct debit given the direct  debit had been  
amended to take the full payment. I consider it reasonable it could have done so at a 
few points in the call: when Mr C explained he was making the £1,999 payments; 
during the discussion about clearing the balance to close the account; or especially 
when Mr C asked for the bank details in order to make a bank transfer. And while I 
agree with it that it did not misinform Mr C, I am satisfied that during the call it did not 
sufficiently help Mr C with respect to the direct debit and paying off his balance 
manually, which  he was very clearly trying to do. 
Virgin Money also added that it was Mr Cs intention to close  the account but that he 
has continued to use the account which has a balance in excess  of £1,200. In his 
response to this service  Mr C said it is still his intention to close  the account. But Im 
satisfied that the fact Mr C hasnt  yet closed the account has no bearing  on whether 
or not Mr C understood how he could pay off the balance in April without interfering 
with the direct debit  process. So I consider £100 to be fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience. 
Mr C has provided evidence  of the charges, £8, he incurred when his account  went  
over drawn and I consider it fair and reasonable for Virgin Money  to pay this. A copy 
of this can be provided to Virgin Money  on request. 
Mr C said his complaint crucially includes the change to paperless billing  as this was 
the main reason he didn't  realise what was happening. He said he was surprised he 
didnt notice he wasnt getting the statements but that he has a number of business 
and personal credit  cards, and this occurred  over busy period. He also said the 
nature of his current account and how his finances  work, with frequent yet irregular 
income, means its not very easy for him to notice £2,000 per month or so not coming 
out of his account. I do have sympathy with Mr C. I can understand why he didnt 
Ref: DRN30338523realise he wasnt getting the statements  and it does appear he has a busy  bank 
account. But unfortunately these  are not things I can hold Virgin Money  responsible 
for. It is Mr Cs responsibility to monitor his credit  card and bank accounts. 
Mr C also said he didnt agree it was fair and reasonable to expect the terms and 
conditions to be vastly  different.  He said if you want the product or service you have 
no choice but to sign up to them. It is indeed the case that in order to have the credit 
card Mr C has to agree  to the terms and conditions. And I can deviate  from them  if I 
feel it is fair and reasonable to do so. Unfortunately in this case I remain satisfied that 
Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware  that Virgin Money would take only the 
minimum payment unless instructed otherwise.
Mr C concluded by saying  Virgin Money had accepted  there is an issue  and has 
changed its procedures  to avoid others falling into the same  trap. My role is to look at 
the individual circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. It may be the case  that Virgin  
Money has changed its procedures but this is not something Im going  to comment 
on.
Neither Mr C nor Virgin Money responded to my second provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr C nor Virgin Money  responded to my second provisional decision nor provided  
any further evidence  I see no reason  to change it.
my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money  Plc must pay Mr C £8 overdraft charges and £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3033852