K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about what happened when they were  switching their 
Santander UK Plc mortgage from repayment  to interest-only.
background
Mr and Mrs J had a repayment  mortgage with Santander. 
They asked to switch  it to interest-only to free up some money to pay for their childrens 
education, saying  they werent in financially difficulties. Santander agreed to the switch in 
theory, but when it came  to carry out the underwriting it was found  that there was a 
significant amount  of unsecured debt,  and Mr and Mrs J finally admitted to being in financial 
difficulties which is why they wanted to switch the account. Mr and Mrs J said they couldnt 
afford the contractual monthly payment on a repayment basis after December 2018.
Despite this being against Santanders  lending policy (it doesnt  allow  switches  to 
interest-only in this way for people in financial difficulties) it agreed to proceed  and sent out 
the paperwork on 31 January 2019.
Santander sent the following collections letters to Mr and Mrs J (of which  theyve told us they 
only received the last one):
18 January 2019 within which it said there were outstanding arrears of £2,015.
13 February 2019 within which it said there  were outstanding arrears  of £4,120.
27 February 2019 within which it said there  were outstanding arrears  of £4,120.
Santander also made over 40 attempts to reach  Mr and Mrs J on the phone  using its 
automated dialler  system so it could notify  them about the arrears. Mr and Mrs J said they 
dont answer cold calls  and as no voicemails were  left they didnt know  they needed to 
contact Santander.
Santander also sent text messages to Mr J, only one of which he responded to by typing 
more but then took no action  on the notification that he was £1,340 in arrears. When similar 
text messages were  sent to him saying Santander  needed  to contact him on 8 February, 
15 February and 22 February  Mr J didnt reply  more so couldnt be notified  of the arrears 
balance.
On 8 March 2019 Mr J contacted Santander  saying theyd received the letter dated 
27 February which said they were £4,120 in arrears.  He said he didnt understand how that 
could be the case  as the account had been confirmed as having  been switched to 
interest-only. It was raised  as a complaint for Santander to look into and then further calls 
took place on 15 March.
Santander reissued  the paperwork to Mr and Mrs J on 16 March  and it received  that back  on 
25 March. It processed the switch  and it took effect  from 28 March. As the mortgage  account 
is paid in arrears rather  than in advance the payment made  in April was for March  so was 
still chargeable on a repayment basis, with the first interest-only payment due in May (for the 
month of April). By the time the switch took effect the account was over £8,000  in arrears.
Ref: DRN36040592Santander didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint,  but offered to refund  the £75 fee and pay 
£50 for delays in dealing  with the complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs J wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Santander didnt  agree to - and issue the paperwork for - the switch to interest -only until 
31 January 2019.  And the switch  wouldnt take effect until Santander  received  the signed  
paperwork back and processed  it. Its not clear  what happened  to the signed paperwork but 
Im satisfied Santander didnt receive it back. Mr and Mrs J said they sent it back  so it must 
have gone astray in the post.
Mr and Mrs J have given us various dates for when they say they returned the signed 
paperwork, initially in a phone call with Santander  on 15 March  when asked  if they signed 
and returned the paperwork Mr J said theyd sent it back on 31 January. When  the case was 
referred to us Mr and Mrs J said they returned it on 1 February 2019. More recently theyve 
given us the dates of 2 February  and 3 February.  But as Ive said, the signed paperwork 
didnt reach  Santander so the switch to interest-only  couldnt be processed. This meant the 
mortgage account remained as it had been; that is, mainly on a capital repayment basis.
All this though  became  moot as Santander agreed it would backdate the switch  to 
1 February as a gesture of goodwill  to help Mr and Mrs J out. It said this reduced  the arrears  
balance on the account from £8,423 to £4,188. But it explained that because this meant the 
contractual monthly payment  would have gone  down on 1 March to about £660, it would 
actually make Mr and Mrs Js credit  file look worse. This is because  the information  recorded 
on a credit file is shown as a number which is the amount  of arrears divided by the 
contractual monthly payment.  
If the switch  was backdated, the account would have been about  £4,188  in arrears on 
1 March with a monthly payment of about £660. £4,188 divided by £660 means the account 
would have been reported from 1 March as being  six months  in arrears.
If the switch  wasnt backdated  (so the account  was switched on 28 March) then the account 
would have been about £6,228 in arrears  on 1 March but with a monthly payment of about 
£2,776. £6,228 divided by £2,776  means the account would have been reported from 
1 March as being just two months in arrears. On 1 April it would have remained at 
two months in arrears,  and only showing as over six months in arrears from 1 May when the 
arrears were  at £8,332  and the monthly payment due dropped to £654.
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs J opted to pay the full £8,437 of arrears (as it was then) and 
leave the switch at 28 March 2019  so their credit files would only show as being  six months  
in arrears from May 2019.
Ref: DRN36040593There was then some further confusion  about  the credit  files but I wont  go into that here as 
thats the subject  of a separate complaint. Suffice  to say for the part I can consider Im 
satisfied the switch date of 28 March  is correct.
The focus of this complaint then became a phone call between Mrs J and Santander on 
8 May 2019.  Mr and Mrs J say she offered to pay the arrears  but Santander  informed us 
that not paying our arrears would have  no effect  on our credit  ratings,  therefore  we did not 
pay our arrears whilst  the investigation continued.
Fortuitously Santander  has a copy of that call and Ive listened to it very carefully. The 
excerpt below  isnt an exact transcript as Ive not noted all the fillers (such  as erm etc) but 
the key parts  of the conversation went as follows:
Mrs J: Because weve got arrears we have got credit rating issues. If I can  cos my 
husband is self-employed  so obviously this is affecting his work being that 
weve got these is it called a red mark?
If we clear If I can Id have to borrow the money to clear this  if I can 
does that then automatically  remove  the bad rating?
Santander: No, unfortunately  it doesnt  work  that way [Mrs J]. If youre able to clear  the 
arrears then thered be no further adverse affect registered. But the fact the 
arrears that have been registered  can remain on there for up to six years.
Mrs J: So I might as well carry on the fight as I was thinking Id just clear it and get it 
over with, but if thats the case then theres no point  me doing that Ill have  to 
keep the battle up with the ombudsman.
Santander: Well obviously thats a decision for yourself to make  on there [Mrs J] I cant  
really comment.
Mrs J: Why cant it be cleared if you pay it up?
Santander: Because thats not how a credit  file works unfortunately [Mrs J]
Obviously its factual  information thats reported. If you bring  an arrears period 
up to date it doesnt automatically remove  that, as I say it wont  register any 
further adverse  affect. But what has been  affected  will remain  on there.
Mrs J: Right, and it remains on there for 6 years you say?
Santander: Yes.
Its clear from this Santander told Mrs J that whilst paying the arrears  wouldnt remove the 
marker already  on the account, it would  stop any further adverse information being 
registered. That is entirely correct. After  being  told of the correct position  Mrs J said she 
might as well carry on the fight rather than pay the arrears. If Mrs J didnt understand 
anything shed been told and/or wanted  more information about the implications of not 
clearing the arrears that she was aware  were  on her account,  then she needed to ask for 
that information at the time.
Ref: DRN36040594I fully understand  that Mrs J might have had her own reasons for making that decision.  It 
was her right to do that, but it was also, ultimately, her choice to do that; and Mr and Mrs J 
have to accept  the consequences of the choice  she made which is that the arrears  situation 
was reported on their credit files for a much longer period than it could have been.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied Santander did nothing wrong in processing the 
switch date as 28 March 2019, nor did it give incorrect  information to Mr and Mrs J about  the 
arrears position on their account.  I dont uphold this complaint  and I make  no order or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3604059