K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Ms R used to hold with 
Bank of Scotland plc. She sold her property in 2018, and repaid the mortgage, but believes 
Halifax overcharged her on redemption. To settle  the complaint, Ms R says Halifax  should 
return the money she believes shes overpaid.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms R when my decision is 
published.
This complaint arises from action Halifax took to resolve an earlier complaint. Ms R has 
complained that shed  been charged  extra  interest for letting out the property.  Halifax  upheld 
the complaint,  and made an interest  adjustment that came to around  £26,000.  It wrote  to 
Ms R on 4 January  2018 telling her that this made the account balance around  £311,000. It 
also told her in the same letter that it was making an overpayment refund of a little over 
£25,000.
Ms R was trying to sell the property,  and on 8 January  2018,  her solicitor wrote  to Halifax  
asking how much Ms R owed on the mortgage. Halifax  sent out a redemption  statement 
quoting an amount of just under £336,000, and Ms Rs solicitor emailed it to her saying  the 
figure was merely for information  purposes, and a final figure would be obtained once 
contracts had exchanged.
The sale completed  in July 2018  and the final redemption figure Ms R was asked to pay was 
around £335,000. Ms R complained, saying  shed based her selling decision on the 
expectation that the amount to repay  the mortgage  would be along the lines of the figure 
given in the 4 January 2018  letter;  i.e. around £311,000.  
Halifax explained that this figure was the balance after the interest adjustment  had been 
made, but before it had been  refunded to Ms R. Once the overpayments were  refunded,  the 
balance went back up again, and this was reflected in the redemption statement  issued  to 
Ms Rs solicitor. Halifax apologised  and paid Ms R £300 compensation for the lack of clarity, 
but Ms R brought her complaint here.
The investigator who looked into Ms Rs complaint didnt recommend that Ms R receive  any 
more redress than the £300 compensation Halifax had already paid her for the lack of clarity 
in the 4 January 2018 letter. He explained  why he was satisfied that the amount Ms R paid 
to redeem the mortgage wasnt too high, and made the point that Halifax  had sent her 
solicitor an accurate redemption statement four days later.
Ref: DRN39802202Ms R asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She says if shed always  
known how much the redemption should be, shed have sold her house for a higher price,  or 
possibly not at all.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes listening to recordings of 
three phone conversations Halifax has provided; from November 2017, December 2017 and 
August 2018.
The crux of this complaint, and first thing for me to decide, is whether Ms R has paid too 
much to redeem her mortgage. Ive looked at all the relevant evidence,  and the simple  
answer is; no, she hasnt.  Ill explain why, using  rounded rather than actual figures, simply to 
illustrate the principle.
Before Ms R complained  about the interest overcharge, the mortgage balance  was 
£336,000; and that included the excessive interest  that Halifax had charged and she had 
paid. When she complained, Halifax made  an adjustment to remove the overcharged 
interest; that brought  the balance down to £311,000. At that point, if nothing  else had 
happened, Ms R would have had her redress for the upheld complaint in the form of a lower 
balance.
But something else did happen; Halifax provided  Ms R with a refund of the overpayments 
shed made.  At this point, Ms R now had her redress for the upheld complaint in, for want of 
a better  expression, cash in hand. But that mean her mortgage  balance had to go back up 
to £336,000. If it hadnt, Ms R would have received the redress twice; once in the form of a 
balance reduction  and again in form of the cash  refund. So I trust Ms R will now accept  that 
she hasnt paid too much on redeeming the mortgage and isnt due any further refund.
Halifaxs error here was not making  all of that properly clear  in its letter of 4 January 2018.  
Its apologised for that, as indeed it should, and its paid Ms R compensation for her time and 
trouble in having to bring the complaint. But should  it do more? Ms Rs argument  is that as a 
result of the confusion, she sold her house  at a price she would not have accepted  if shed 
known how much she really owed.
Ive thought hard about that, and whilst Ive no doubt Ms R presents that argument  in good 
faith, overall Im not persuaded by it. Firstly, I cant ignore the redemption  statement Halifax  
sent Ms Rs solicitor on 8 January 2018. Ive seen the email message  from the solicitor  
saying its merely for information purposes. I cant be sure what  the solicitor was intending to 
say, or what  Ms R inferred  from what she did say. But I suspect what the solicitor  meant  
Ref: DRN39802203was: this is the redemption balance were working on just now, but well need  another  one 
when were ready to complete.
Either way, it gave  the correct amount, and in the format of a redemption statement. Ms R 
has said she assumed  that the complaint settlement set out in the 4 January 2018 letter 
hadnt worked its way through to the account when the redemption statement was produced.  
Given how wide the disparity between the two amounts, it seems to me the prudent  thing 
would have been to check and make  sure.
As to how Ms R might  have acted differently with the sale of her property, something I 
observed from listening to the phone calls she had with Halifax  is how determined Ms R was 
to sell the property,  and how long shed been  trying to do so. In that context, it doesnt seem  
likely to me that Ms R would have decided not to sell at all if she always  understood how 
much she owed on the mortgage. Meanwhile,  trying to decide on whether Ms R could still 
have sold but at a higher price is something  that requires me to speculate far beyond  what I 
consider is safe to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3980220