K820x#14complaint
G, a company, complains  that Santander UK Plc wrongly took money  from its account,  
meaning that its director  Mr D, who has brought this complaint on behalf of the company  
was without funds  for a time.  
background
On 11 July 2018 a company, P, obtained a judgment for over £2,000 against G. On 31 
August 2018 the County Court made an interim third party debt order;  Santander was named 
as the third party, and the order recorded  that P believed Santander owed a debt to G. That 
debt took the form of any credit balances on Gs accounts with Santander. The order  said 
that, until the hearing of the full application,  Santander should  not pay any sum it owed to G, 
save to the extent that such  sum exceeded  the amount G owed to P (which at the time was 
just over £2,100). 
Ps solicitors sent Santander a sealed  copy of the interim  order under cover of a letter dated 
2 October 2018. The covering letter gave an account number, which was the number of Gs 
business current account with Santander. Santander also held Gs savings account  and 
client account. 
When Santander received the order, it wrote to G to explain  what  had happened and to say 
that it had secured 51p from the current account  the balance  on 3 October 2018. It would, 
it said, release that sum to P if and when the order was made final.  The balance  on the 
savings account  was, it seems, zero at that time. 
Over the following two days, however, a credit of £297.25 was made to Gs savings account  
from Mr Ds personal  account, followed by payments back to him. There  were  also transfers 
to and from the current account.  And on 5 October 2018 (a Friday)  Santander  froze the 
savings account,  at a point  when  it had a credit  balance  of £77.25. 
Santander says that it received a duplicate  of the third party order and that it acted on that, 
not realising that it had already taken  action under it. It released the £77.25 the following  
Monday, but Mr D says that he was left without  funds  in the meantime. Hes provided 
evidence that he had to pawn jewellery  to cover  costs  over the weekend. 
Santander apologised and paid Mr D £100  in recognition  of the trouble  its actions  had put 
him to. Mr D didnt think that went far enough and thought he should be compensated for his 
time in dealing with the banks actions. At his professional charging rate, he calculates  that 
amounts to around  £1,600. He referred  the case to this service,  and one of our investigators 
considered it. He thought though that the compensation  offered by Santander was 
reasonable. 
Mr D, on behalf of G, didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman consider the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should stress first of all that Ive considered here Gs complaint, not any complaint  that 
Mr D might have.  Thats  because the interim court order arose  from a debt owed by G and 
the complaint  concerns Santanders  handling  of Gs accounts. Mr D and G are different legal 
Ref: DRN34521132entities. In saying  that, of course, Im conscious that Mr D is the sole director and 
shareholder of G.  
When Santander received the court order, it appears that Gs savings account had a zero 
balance. But shortly  after that money  was credited to it. Money held in a bank account  is, in 
effect, a debt owed  by the bank to the account holder. Once money was transferred to the 
savings account,  therefore, Santander owed that money to G. The court order said that 
Santander  must not, unless the court orders otherwise, pay to the judgment debtor, or to 
any other person,  any sum of money due or accruing due by the third party  to the judgment 
debtor     
Santander said it had made in error in freezing money that was transferred to the savings 
account. However, it seems to me that it would have been  justified in taking the view that the 
third party order was sufficiently widely drafted  that it covered not only money in the account 
at the date of the order or when Santander  received notice of it, but also money 
subsequently credited  to the account.  In fact, Santander allowed G to transfer money out of 
the savings account. 
Be that as it may, the investigator took the view that Mr D himself had access to personal 
funds. He had arranged for transfers  between accounts after Santander  had written  to him 
about the action it had taken to secure  the small amount  in the current account. I agree with 
the investigators findings on that point. The funds that Mr D says Santander  should  not have 
blocked were only in the savings account  because D had himself transferred them, even 
after he knew about the court order. 
In the circumstances, I believe that the steps Santander has taken  are a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve Gs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to take any further  steps to resolve 
Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3452113