K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Banking  Group Plc has refused to provide him with banking 
facilities and has added  his details to a fraud database held by National Hunter. 
background
At the end of 2017 Mr S made three applications  for a current account   to Lloyds Bank Plc, 
Bank of Scotland Plc and Halifax. Both Lloyds  Bank  and Bank of Scotland are companies 
within the Lloyds  Banking group, and Halifax is a trading name of Bank of Scotland. The 
various providers within  the group share information about account applications. Mr S has 
explained that he wanted to see which, if any, of the applications was accepted  so he could 
take the most beneficial to him.  
After initial  acceptance,  none of the applications was ultimately successful. Mr S later 
identified that Lloyds Banking  Group had added his name to National Hunters  database 
because of inconsistencies in the information hed provided over several years. 
Lloyds Banking  Groups records  show that Mr S made some 13 applications for its products 
between March 2012 and November 2018. On occasions, as in 2017,  he made more than 
one application  at around the same time. 
The records  of those  applications show two pieces of information  which  have been 
inconsistent  Mr Ss date of birth and the time his lived at the address given on the 
application. 
When Mr S referred his complaint to this service, one of our investigators considered it. He 
took the view,  however, that Lloyds Banking Group had accurately provided  data about the 
applications; it hadnt treated Mr S unfairly  by doing  that. Mr S didnt accept the investigators  
view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing that, Ive looked carefully at the 
information that Lloyds Banking Group  says Mr S has provided  over the years.   
In respect of Mr Ss date of birth, the day and year have been  consistent. But in 2013 he 
gave the month as March, instead  of May.  That may have  been  an innocent  mistake,  
perhaps caused by a keyboard error, although  it is significant. 
In addition, however,  Mr S was asked when he made applications how long hed lived at his 
present address. He says, and I accept,  that hes lived at the same  address for most of his 
life; he moved there as a small child. Its unlikely he recalls exactly when that was, although 
it wouldnt be hard to check.  But the information hes provided  on his applications  hasnt 
been at all consistent. Specifically:
On two of the applications made on the same day in 2017 he said hed been  at the 
address for 21 years; on the third he said hed been  there for 21 years  and 8 months.
He made two applications in July 2016,  one day apart. On one he said hed lived at the 
address for 20 years; on the other  it was 20 years and 6 months.  
Ref: DRN31458832In October 2015 he said hed been at the address for 20 years;  just under a year earlier 
he said hed been there  for 17 years. 
In two applications made in August 2013  he said hed been  at the address for 15 years  
and 7 months and for 13 years and 6 months.    
According to the applications Mr S has made over the years, the earliest  he moved  was 
October 1995 and the latest  February 2000.  In my view, thats quite  a significant difference;  
its not simply a variance  of a month or two. I think its significant too that Mr S answered the 
question differently on applications made very close together.
Its possible of course  that the inconsistencies  were  genuine mistakes  on the part of Mr S. 
But, as the investigator  noted, Lloyds Banking Group simply submitted the data it had about  
the applications to National Hunter.  Organisations using that data should make their own 
checks before declining any application.  
National Hunters own website says that it keeps  records for a maximum of six years.  Its 
possible therefore that some of the information  it recorded is no longer available, and that 
other information will cease to be available with the passage of time. I dont however think  
that Lloyds Banking  Group has treated Mr S unfairly  by reporting its data in the way it did.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Banking Group Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision before 22 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3145883