K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that a claim under their home insurance  policy  for accidental  
damage has been declined by One Insurance Limited.
background
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs G made a claim to One Insurance after the wall-hung toilet  in 
their family bathroom came away from the wall when a child was sitting on it. One 
Insurance referred them to another insurer. It sent a loss adjuster  to inspect the damage 
but then declined the claim because it didnt cover Mr and Mrs G for accidental damage.
Mr and Mrs G contacted  One Insurance again. It asked them to send photos and estimates 
for repair. When Mr and Mrs G chased  One Insurance after several weeks, they were  told 
the claim was being declined  because  One Insurance  thought the damage had been 
caused by faulty workmanship.  Mr and Mrs G pointed out that the toilet had only been 
installed about 18 months previously.
Eventually after chasing by Mr and Mrs G, One Insurance agreed to send someone to 
inspect the damage. The inspector reported that the toilet was only held in place by 
plasterboard and tiling. Mr and Mrs G say this is wrong and in fact its held in place by a 
steel frame structure in accordance with the manufacturers fitting instructions.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to One Insurance. It didnt change  its decision but in April 2019 
it offered them £50 compensation for the delay in reaching a decision on their claim.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service. I issued a provisional  decision 
explaining why I was minded to uphold their complaint. An extract from my provisional 
findings is set out below:
Mr and Mrs Gs policy covers any unexpected and unintended damage to your building 
caused by something  sudden  and external. There  are exclusions for (amongst other things) 
faulty workmanship.
Its an established principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to demonstrate they 
have a valid claim  under their policy. If the insurer then seeks to rely upon a policy 
exclusion in declining  the claim,  its for the insurer to establish that the exclusion in 
question applies. I need to decide whether One Insurance  has done  that in this case.
Mr and Mrs Gs toilet is designed to be mounted on metal rods fixed  to a metal structure in 
place behind  a wall. One Insurances inspector reported that:
 ... the toilet was held up by only tiles and plasterboard with no ... support beams to 
secure it in place. Because of this. the toilet had come  loose  from the wall during normal 
use due to a complete  lack of structural support needed to keep the toilet  safely  secured 
to the wall, snapping the tiles in the process  and causing a dent in the wall. This damage 
would have been completely avoidable  if the toilet was fitted  properly.
In my opinion this report was quite  misleading. Photos show that there clearly is a 
support frame in place behind  the false wall. When our investigator  asked  One 
Insurance to comment on this, it said the frame might have been added  since  its 
Ref: DRN39620302engineers visit or the frame might  have been  bolted  onto the plasterboard and tiles 
rather than a more  solid structure. It seems  to me most unlikely that a steel  support 
frame would have  been squeezed in through the small opening shown  in the photos 
solely for the purpose of supporting this claim. With regard to its second  suggestion  one 
photo shows the frame bolted to the floor.  So I also dont think One Insurance  has 
shown that this was likely either. Its engineer  didnt  take any photos inside the wall 
space.
After Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint  to us, One Insurance  asked its engineer to 
review the claim  again from photos. It now agreed that there was a frame  but thought  it 
was only supporting the top of the toilet.  It said there was no support for the bottom of the 
toilet other  than the plasterboard. It said:
A professional installer would never fit a wall hanging toilet  without support at both the 
top and bottom.
It illustrated this with a picture  of a wall hanging  toilet supported by a bracket at the top and 
bottom. Im not persuaded by this since this method of support appears to be different from 
the way Mr and Mrs Gs toilet was supposed  to be supported according to the 
manufacturer.
I have to make a decision based on whats most likely from the evidence  I have. One 
Insurances initial reason  for declining the claim has now been proved  wrong.  It has put 
forward a theory but with no evidence to substantiate it. It could have sent someone to 
reinspect the toilet. And this might have produced enough evidence  to decline the claim. 
But it didnt do this. In the circumstances I dont  think  its shown that the damage was 
probably caused by faulty workmanship. It follows that I dont think it acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim. To put things right,  it should settle Mr and 
Mrs Gs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Im issuing a provisional decision  because our investigator didnt award Mr and Mrs G any 
compensation. Ive looked at the inconvenience Mr and Mrs G have suffered by not having 
the use of a toilet in their family bathroom  for almost  a year and a half. I appreciate  that they 
have the use of an en-suite bathroom  and downstairs cloakroom as well. But it has meant 
their children are disturbing them by using their en-suite bathroom at night.  Theres  also a 
large hole in the false wall of the family bathroom which  makes  the room very draughty.  I 
think One Insurance should pay them £300  compensation  for this.
Mr and Mrs G said theyd prefer a cash settlement so that they could choose who carried out 
the work.  One Insurance  said it didnt accept the outcome was correct but was happy to 
arrange settlement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since One Insurance hasnt given  any reason  for its view that my provisional decision was 
incorrect, I see no reason to change it and my provisional findings  now form part of this final 
decision.
Ref: DRN39620303I can understand after it has taken so long to reach this point why Mr and Mrs G prefer  a 
cash settlement. I think thats sensible in the circumstances. They  say they already have  
some quotes  for the repairs. I think Mr and Mrs G should provide One Insurance  with three  
quotes for the repair works and One Insurance should settle on the basis of the lowest. One 
Insurance should also pay any VAT due on the amount payable subject to being  provided 
with a VAT receipt.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require One Insurance Limited to settle this claim on the basis  of 
the lowest of three quotes to be provided  by Mr and Mrs G for the repair works and to pay 
any VAT due on the amount payable subject  to being provided with a VAT receipt.
I also require One Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs G a further  £300  compensation for 
the trouble and upset its caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3962030