K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains the vehicle he acquired on finance supplied by Close  Brothers Limited was 
not of satisfactory  quality.  He wants a refund of monthly payments for the time the vehicle 
was awaiting inspection  and the cost of repairs.
background
Mr S tells us the vehicle  was acquired in April 2018  through a dealer Ill call B. He says he 
experienced problems from the outset - but had these repaired at his own cost. But he tells 
us the vehicle then developed problems with starting and he had to seek  the assistance of 
the AA. He said that whilst it got the vehicle  to restart - using an easy  start spray - it 
diagnosed that there  were faults  with the glow plugs.  He said he complained  to Close  
Brothers but it took the best part of three months before he was again able to use the 
vehicle. Mr S says hes now had the vehicle repaired  for himself but he thinks  he should  be 
compensated for the repair costs and the time he was unable  to use the vehicle.
Close Brothers told us that Mr S had acquired a vehicle which was 10 years  old and had 
covered over 100,000 miles. So parts were reaching the end of their expected lifespan. It 
said it had obtained  a vehicle inspection report from an independent examiner,  A, a 
company. In its first report it said A had concluded that the glow plug issue was probably 
present at the point of supply. But Close Brothers said it sought clarification and asked  A for 
further comment.
It said A had then provided  a revised opinion  and - taking into account  the mileage the 
vehicle had covered since  supply - had concluded the heater plug (glow  plug) issue was not 
present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 August 2019.
I said that I intended to uphold  the complaint and was minded to order that Close  Brothers 
should pay for the glow plug repairs. I also thought  it should refund three monthly payments 
and pay Mr S £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Neither party has replied  to my provisional decision so I see no need  to change  my 
provisional findings. These are repeated in my final decision which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr S has experienced  numerous  problems with this vehicle and I think hes 
exercised a substantial  degree of patience in dealing  with these.
Mr Ss conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement - similar to hire 
purchase - and our service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers 
supplied the vehicle and its therefore responsible  for a complaint about  the quality of the 
vehicle. Whilst I dont  apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015 (CRA).
Ref: DRN30803092Briefly summarised, this states that theres  an implied condition in every contract to supply 
goods that they will be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And satisfactory quality is 
defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is, I decide  what  is the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, we listen  to what  
the parties tell us, and we look to documentary  and other evidence  to help us reach a 
decision. Finally, and importantly, we look at what is fair and reasonable.
Theres no doubt this vehicle was getting on both in terms of age and mileage. So I wouldnt 
expect the same degree of reliability  as would be required from a newer or less well-used 
vehicle. But that doesnt mean a customer has to bear the responsibility  for everything that 
goes wrong with it.
Its clear that soon after acquiring  the vehicle Mr S has had a number of repairs  carried  out. 
Ive seen invoices  in relation to the replacement of an alternator in June 2018; brake discs  
and pads (June 2018); a battery  (May 2018) and a resonation chamber  (September  2018). 
Some of the items for which Ive seen invoices  are general maintenance or wear  and tear 
issues for which Close Brothers would not be responsible. But there  appear  to be three  
major items  which  required repair. And whilst  I understand Mr Ss wish to keep  the vehicle 
on the road Ive also got to take into account  that - if it were shown the faults were present at 
the point of supply - Close Brothers ought to be given the chance to put things right itself.
In June 2018, the alternator was replaced and the cost refunded to Mr S - so I neednt make  
any further findings regarding this aspect.
On 30 August, there is a note recorded of Mr S contacting Close  Brothers and reporting the 
vehicle could not be driven due to a split resonation chamber. Subsequently,  it seems Mr S 
was told that B claimed the vehicle wouldnt have been able to do the miles it had already 
covered if this fault had been  present at the time of supply. So it wouldnt  be looking to cover  
the costs of repair. So Mr S had this repaired privately at a cost of around £300.
As the vehicle wasnt subject to an independent inspection before the resonation chamber 
was repaired,  Im unable to say if that fault was present at the point  of supply. So it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to hold Close Brothers liable for the costs of these  repairs.
Almost immediately after the repairs were completed its recorded on 13 September that Mr 
S reported the vehicle had broken down again - due to issues  with the glow plugs and 
leaking fuel.
Following this complaint  Close Brothers  arranged for an independent  inspection  of the 
vehicle to be carried out by A. The inspection took place on 9 October 2018 and contains 
details of the mileage  at both the point  of supply and the start of the inspection. The readings 
showed the vehicle had covered 10,477 miles since supply. The report  stated the faults  with 
the glow plug were probably  present  at the point of supply and concluded that the glow plugs 
and/ or control  unit would require replacement.
Case notes indicate  that the case handler at Close  Brothers  did not agree with this - and so 
A was asked  for further  clarification. This resulted in A reviewing its earlier  conclusions  and 
it replied in the following terms on 9 November 2018:
Ref: DRN30803093Having duly considered  our report and taken into consideration the vehicle appears to have 
covered almost 10,500 miles since the point  of sale / hire commencement, we would have to 
consider it appears  very unlikely that the heater plug issue  would have been developing at 
the time of hire commencement.
Heater plug issues  often develop in the last 500-miles to 1000-miles of operational use. We 
would consider at the vehicles age and recorded mileage that the glow plug issue would be 
considered wear and tear.
I can see that Close Brothers contacted Mr S on 16 November to advise of the change to As 
report and to say that it would  be closing  its file on the complaint. It subsequently issued a 
final response letter to this effect on 28 December  2018.
As Close Brothers had told him it wouldnt be meeting the cost of the glow plug repairs,  Mr S 
went ahead  and had the vehicle repaired at his own expense. Hes provided  an invoice 
which shows the total cost of repairs  and recovery was £406.72.
When As original report was compiled, the inspector  was already in possession  of the 
mileage details necessary  to calculate  how far the vehicle had covered since supply to Mr S. 
It detailed faults  with the glow plugs  and/or control  relay - and it went on to say:
On the balance of probability, we consider the present condition  would have  been  
developing at finance inception and has not yet undergone successful  rectification.
Following Close Brothers  request for further clarification - and why this was needed  in the 
light of the plain findings of the first report I cannot  say - A then changed  its earlier opinion. 
As the apparent basis for its change of heart appears to be the mileage covered since  the 
point of supply  - information its inspector  already had at the time of the first report  its not 
obvious why this should have brought about a complete reversal  of the original view. There  
doesnt appear to be any objective justification  for this.
At best, this suggests that I should  treat the two views with caution as quite clearly  both cant  
be correct.
The CRA contains a presumption that faults  arising within the first six months after supply -
and which  result in a vehicle not being  of satisfactory  quality - are present  at the point of 
supply - unless its otherwise established.  Theres no doubt the fault with the glow plugs was 
identified within that six month period. As I dont think As revised opinion can be relied on, it 
follows that Close Brothers has not established  that the fault was not present at the point of 
supply.
In these circumstances - as Close Brothers  refused to have the necessary repairs carried  
out - I think Mr S is entitled to be reimbursed for the cost he incurred in having those repairs  
done. And also the associated costs of having  the vehicle recovered  due to this fault.
Mr S has, at different times, suffered impaired use of the vehicle from the time of supply to 
the point the latest repair  was carried out in November  2018. The major  proportion of this 
has occurred within the period from the end of August 2018 to 23 November. So I think its 
fair and reasonable that a total of three  monthly  payments are refunded. As Mr S has also 
experienced considerable disruption to his routine and the inconvenience of not having the 
vehicle available, I think he should  also be awarded £250 to reflect this.
Ref: DRN30803094my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.  To settle  the 
matter, I require Close Brothers Limited to take the following action:
1.Pay Mr S £406.72,  being  the cost of glow plug related  repairs and recovery  of 
vehicle; 
2.Refund three monthly payments  of £126.13 - a total of £378.39; 
3.Pay £250 to Mr S for distress and convenience.  
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 1 and 2 above from date 
of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Stephen Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3080309