K821x#15Complaint
Mr S and Miss C complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited treated them  unfairly 
during the renewal of their motor insurance policy.
Background
Mr S and Miss C insured their car with Admiral. When the policy was due for renewal in 
May 2017, Admiral  sent them a quote  which was much more expensive  than the previous 
year. 
The policy cover was initially  accepted by Mr S and Miss C, but it was agreed they wouldnt 
pay until Admiral had investigated why the price had increased  so much. 
While Admiral was looking into this, a claim was made by a third party on Mr S and Miss Cs 
policy. This claim was disputed by Mr S and Miss C who said it was fraudulent.
Admiral said the renewal premium quoted was correct, and as a claim had been made 
against the policy, it said it needed the whole premium paid. Mr S and Miss C said they 
couldnt afford it in one go, so it was agreed they could  pay in three instalments.
Admiral then realised it had made an error  in their renewal letter,  so wrote to Mr S and 
Miss C in August  2017 saying they could cancel the policy without penalty, even if a claim 
had been made. However at the same time, as the first instalment payment hadnt been  
made by Mr S and Miss C as required, Admiral cancelled the policy  itself,  and said the full 
policy payment was due.
As Mr S and Miss C were unable to afford the amount due, the debt was passed to Admirals 
collections department.  And a monthly  repayment  plan was agreed. 
They paid the monthly amount as required for 3 months. But as Mr S and Miss C felt Admiral  
was not dealing with the claim  against their policy quickly enough, they said they wouldnt 
make any more payments  until it was resolved.  This meant Admirals collections  department  
began making  regular payment request calls and letters, which  Mr S and Miss C have said 
had a significant impact  on their stress  levels and mental health.
Mr S and Miss C complained to Admiral. They said
Admiral had breached  FCA rules  in their renewal  process  
they shouldve  been allowed to cancel  their policy without  penalty
they were unhappy with the increase in policy price at the point of renewal
they were put into debt as a result of Admiral cancelling  the policy
they felt harassed  by Admirals collections department, which  caused  them  distress
Admiral hadnt resolved the false claim on their policy  and hadnt kept them updated
In their final response letter, in March  2019, Admiral acknowledged it had made  an error in 
their renewal letter, and in cancelling their policy. It said it shouldve allowed Mr S and 
Miss C to cancel the policy themselves if they wished. 
Ref: DRN36093602To make good their errors,  Admiral:
apologised for the confusion  the renewal letter caused
wrote  off the outstanding debt Mr S and Miss C owed for the policy
refunded the monthly instalments they had paid, adding 8% interest
But Admiral  also said the renewal price it quoted in 2017 was correct and it didnt accept it 
had caused Mr S and Miss C to go into debt, and its offer of splitting the payment into three 
instalments was fair. It said it was sorry Mr S and Miss C felt harassed  by the collections 
department, and apologised on its behalf, but had no control over the amount of times it 
called. It said the claim  on the policy remained open as it was waiting for a response  from 
the third partys solicitor,  and had not updated Mr S and Miss C as it had no further 
information to provide.
Mr S and Miss C didnt accept its response  so complained  to us. They said they wanted an 
apology from the collections department  and an understanding that it will improve  its 
automated systems, and compensation  for the mental distress  they have been caused.
The investigator felt that Admiral had done  enough to put Mr S and Miss C back  in the 
financial position they wouldve been  had it not been  for Admirals  errors, so didnt think  it 
needed to do any more in that regard.
He also thought Admiral  was acting fairly  in keeping the claim against the policy  open.  He 
thought that Admiral had chased the third party enough, and as they hadnt  responded he 
thought it was fair that Admiral kept the claim open until the three-year legal limitation period 
was up. He advised Mr S and Miss C that their premiums could be recalculated once the 
claim was closed.
The investigator thought that the number and frequency of the calls and letters to Mr S and 
Miss C from the collections department had had a significant impact on them. He thought 
that these calls wouldnt have occurred if Admiral hadnt made the error in cancelling  their 
policy. So, he thought  Admiral should pay Mr S and Miss C a further £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience  they were caused.  
Mr S, Miss C and Admiral  accepted the investigators view,  however Admiral didnt agree 
that it should pay compensation. So, the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral didnt get everything wrong in this case.  It is accepted that it kept the claim on the 
policy open fairly, that their renewal price,  although significantly more expensive,  was 
calculated correctly. And that it was fair in the way it put Mr S and Miss C back in the 
financial position they would have been had it not been for its errors. It has accepted  
however, that it made errors in the renewal  letter, and in cancelling Mr S and Miss Cs policy. 
As those  things arent in dispute,  all that remains is for me to decide  if any compensation is 
due to Mr S and Miss C for the distress and inconvenience they have been caused by 
Admirals errors. And if so, how much.
Ref: DRN36093603Admiral made an error in their renewal process, whereby it didnt correctly show  the previous 
years premium on the renewal letter. It later recognised this and wrote to all the customers 
affected (which included Mr S and Miss C) allowing them to cancel their policies  without 
penalty if they wished, including if they had a claim outstanding.  Mr S and Miss C have said 
they wouldve  taken  Admiral up on their offer, and I have no reason to doubt this.
Unfortunately, at the same time as the above  letter was sent out, Admiral cancelled  Mr S 
and Miss Cs policy as the first instalment hadnt  been paid. It also required them to pay the 
whole years premium as a claim had been  made. This error  meant  that the outstanding 
premium for the policy was classed as a debt and passed to the collections department. 
This then led to about 18 months where Mr S and Miss C were in debt to Admiral and being 
contacted very regularly  by its collections department. I have seen from their letters  to us the 
high level of distress this caused them,  and they felt they were being  treated very unfairly, 
both because of the debt,  and also because of the outstanding claim on their policy.  
I cant fairly hold Admiral responsible for all the distress suffered, as some  of this I think was 
caused by the length  of time the claim was outstanding.  And Mr S and Miss C now agree 
that Admiral have been fair in this regard. I can, however, hold Admiral responsible for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S and Miss C by being chased  for the debt. 
Admiral is responsible for anyone acting on its behalf, and so is responsible for the number 
of calls the collections department makes. 
I think this debt, and therefore the subsequent  calls and letters,  couldve been  avoided in the 
first place had Admiral not mistakenly  cancelled the policy. It shouldve allowed  Mr S and 
Miss C to cancel it themselves, penalty  free, meaning this debt probably  wouldnt have 
happened.
Given the degree of distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr S and Miss C, and the length 
of time over which it occurred, I think an additional £500 is fair compensation. 
My final decision
As a result of all the above,  I partially uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr S and Miss C an additional £500  in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3609360