K820x#14complaint
Mr J feels that Nationwide Building  Society (NBS for short)  has treated him unfairly by 
closing his account due to it seeing a marker  about him on his Cifas file.
background
Mr J had a bank account with NBS. Another business placed  a marker on Mr Js Cifas  file. 
(Mr Js complaint about this other  business is being  dealt with separately by this Service). As 
a result of this Cifas  marker NBS decided to close Mr Js account.
Mr J was unhappy with this and complained to NBS. NBS investigated and decided it hadnt 
done anything  wrong. So Mr J brought his complaint here and the adjudicator  did not uphold 
it. Mr J didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J feels very strongly about  this issue. He is adamant that his account should  never  have 
been closed. He thinks NBS should  have told him why the marker  was placed on his 
account. He feels  it was unfair that he had to take identification into branches to make  
withdrawals. He wants NBS to pay the charges  he incurred due to direct  debits being 
cancelled. He feels that the money  NBS paid him in relation  to these issues falls a long way 
short of what he thinks is fair.
Its important to remember that in a complaint  about  NBS the only thing in question  is 
whether NBS has done what  it should have done. What  isnt in question  here is whether the 
marker should have  put in place or later removed as these actions were done  by a separate 
business and being dealt  with separately.
Having considered everything  on balance Im sorry to say that I dont uphold Mr Js 
complaint for the following reasons.
NBS is entitled  to rely on the records Cifas hold.  Businesses are obliged to record matters of 
fact on Cifas and as a consequence NBS was entitled to take action solely based on what 
Cifas said.
NBS arent  obliged to describe to Mr J (or any consumers) what Cifas says as this can be 
retrieved from Cifas  itself (which Mr J did). I appreciate that this must be galling for Mr J as 
the record that was logged  on Cifas  has since been removed. But the correctness of the 
logging and the removal isnt the responsibility of NBS.
Clearly having  a marker on Cifas is a serious matter as Mr J has discovered. And 
considering what  Cifas records show I dont think it unreasonable for NBS to take 
heightened measures  such  as requiring identification for transactions. So I dont think  Mr J 
has been treated  unfairly by this.
NBS contacted Mr J when it decided to close his account. Mr J has pointed to charges 
imposed upon  him by other firms in relation to payments and premiums from his NBS 
account. But I can see that these charges were notified to him and asked  him to deal with it. 
Ref: DRN37324622So in relation to those  charges not only had he been  in contact with NBS on a number of 
occasions prior to this-he still had opportunity to do something about it. So I dont think NBS 
should be responsible for these charges as it had provided notice of the changes to his 
account, I can see there was discussions between Mr J and NBS on a number  of occasions, 
the other parties  informed him of outstanding payments and Mr J had sufficient time to do 
something about those  charges before they were applied. 
And I can see that although there  was some  inconsistent information provided  to him on 
calls with NBS those  were either  clarified  on the call or on subsequent calls (which were  all 
close together in terms of whats happened  here) so I dont think NBS has anything left to 
remedy here.
Overall it must also be remembered that NBS is entitled to have relationships with whomever 
it wishes and that the agreement  between  it and its consumers allows it to terminate the 
relationship or amend the relationship in certain  circumstances.
Its clear now that the marker on his Cifas file has since been removed and there is no 
record of such an adverse marker having  been  on his record.  However that doesnt mean it 
wasnt there for some period of time.  And Im satisfied that it was there for a period of time 
and NBS relied on the marker when it was there.  
But as Ive said I dont  think it did anything wrong in relying on it when it was there.  And 
ultimately its the other business that put on the marker and then removed it which is 
responsible for the consequences of these actions-not  NBS. 
And I can see Mr J is disappointed with what Cifas did. But that isnt something I can deal 
with here-that  is a complaint Mr J has to make to Cifas.
I also appreciate that his NBS sole account  was one he used significantly and what  has 
happened was disruptive  to him significantly.  But this doesnt change the fact that everything 
stems from the marker  being  placed  and then removed by another firm-and so I dont think  
NBS has treated Mr J unfairly  throughout.
I appreciate Mr J will be very disappointed with this decision. However he is only bound by it 
if he chooses to accept it. If he doesnt accept it he is entitled to pursue the matter through 
whichever avenue he chooses including complaining about the other business. However this 
decision brings to an end this services  involvement  in this dispute between  Mr J and NBS.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
against Nationwide Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before 1 April 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3732462