K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Elite Insurance Company Limited. 
background
Mr W holds an alloy wheel policy underwritten by Elite. He tried to make a claim under this, 
and his claim was delayed. He complained about  this and also wanted his cover extended 
by the period of delay. Elite didnt  resolve  this so Mr W complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but didnt  find in Mr Ws favour.  Mr W didnt 
agree so the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either. Ill explain why. 
I should start by saying  the only elements of the case  I will be looking at here concern Mr 
Ws original delay and extended cover complaint against Elite.  He has another dispute 
concerning his wifes policy,  but that is underwritten by a different insurer and so Elite cant 
be responsible  for those  issues.  Equally  he has raised some issues  over claims handling  but 
these may more properly  be addressed to the claims  handler, or Elite if the handler is an 
agent of theirs. These  were on the original complaint form but subsequent events have 
meant this element of the dispute has developed. I dont want Mr W to wait any longer for a 
decision on the delay  / extended cover elements that are definitely  Elites responsibility so I 
am issuing  this decision on those, but not any other aspect of the case.  
Elite ran into financial problems and a court with jurisdiction over its regulator  agreed that 
claims could be put on hold for a period. I cant interfere  in that decision by a court of law. 
They allowed  Elite to keep claims on hold and I, and Mr W, are stuck with that. I couldnt  
have insisted that Elite progress matters in the face of that court order.  It might be that Mr W 
could complain to Elites regulator  over that, but he would have to make  that decision 
himself, I cannot advise him on that. 
Accepting that Elite could hold the claim I cannot see that they did anything else incorrect at 
that time.  Now that they appear to have resolved their financial issues they should begin to 
progress claims  again,  which  I see they have (although  as said I do note Mr W isnt happy  
with that progress).  
I understand Mr Ws wish for his cover  to be extended by the period his claim was on hold, 
but I dont think  it works that way. Whilst claims werent being progressed  they could  still be 
made, so Mr W has had the cover in question,  its just that the repairs werent being done. 
So any valid claim he had during that period would have been considered once  the financial 
hiatus was over. As this has now happened  I dont agree that his policy  should  be extended 
by the period in question.  I also note that Elites  regulator has apparently decided they 
shouldnt write any further business anyway, so even if I thought cover should be extended, 
which I dont, this might not be possible.  
Ref: DRN37738352With regard to the now re-started claims as the adjudicator stated these would have  to form 
part of a new complaint. Whether  that would  be against Elite of the claims handler  I dont  
need to decide here.  But if the claims are still outstanding then Mr W should  contact the 
adjudicator who can ensure  that any new case is processed accordingly. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Elite Insurance Company Limited in respect  of the elements of 
Mr Ws case I have  been able to consider here.  My decision  doesnt affect any other dispute 
concerning his wifes cover or the other claims handling elements of his case.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3773835