K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Ms A complained that Santander  UK Plc gave them  wrong information about  how 
much they could borrow for a new mortgage. When their application  for a mortgage was then 
refused, they changed mortgage providers and had to pay an early repayment  charge 
(ERC), which  they think should be repaid. 
background
Mr J and Ms A had an existing mortgage with Santander. They wanted to borrow more to 
buy a new property and made an application for a new mortgage.  In January 2019 
Santander made a mortgage offer for an amount of about £570,000 but the property 
purchase fell through. 
In late February 2019 Mr J telephoned Santander  to ask how much he could borrow  as hed 
recently had a rise in salary and a bonus.  Mr J hadnt found  another property at this point  but 
gave a prospective purchase  price of £700,000. Santander said it could lend £630,000 but it 
would need proof of his new salary and bonus  and said it would need to revisit the 
application once  Mr J and Ms A had found  a new property. 
In early March 2019 Mr J told Santander hed put an offer in on a new property and it had 
been accepted. He wanted to put down a deposit of 10% and borrow  about £620,000. 
Santander said this looked to be affordable but said they still needed to provide confirmation 
of their income. Shortly afterwards, Mr J and Ms A exchanged  contracts on their current 
property and paid for searches and surveys  on the new property.
Three days later, Mr J had a pre-arranged  telephone  call with Santander and went  through 
the application process. But it told him it had a policy  of not lending  more than £570,000 on a 
90% mortgage. It could  not therefore lend them  the amount they wanted. 
Mr J and Ms A didnt want to lose the property theyd found  and took out a mortgage  with 
another provider.  As such,  they had to pay an ERC to Santander of about £8,000. They  
believe Santander should waive that amount due to the incorrect information they were 
given, which  they think gave them no option other than to change mortgage providers.
Santander accepted it had given  Mr J the wrong  information  in February and early  
March 2019 about how much they could borrow. But it said no application for a mortgage 
and no mortgage  offer had been  made for the new amount. It said it was Mr J and Ms As 
decision to continue with the purchase of the new property before the fixed rate period had 
ended and they were aware of the need  to pay an ERC. It offered to pay Mr J and Ms A £50 
as a gesture of goodwill.  They declined  that offer.
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. He agreed that Santander had given wrong 
information but thought  it was reasonable for it to refuse the new application and apply the 
ERC. He didnt think the wrong information  was the direct cause of Mr J and Ms A having to 
move mortgage providers and pay the ERC.  But he thought Santander should  pay more 
than the £50 it had offered, and instead  said it should pay £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Mr J and Ms A remained unhappy  and the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN34446962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr J and Ms A were  selling a property to buy another one that would cost more.  Santander  
had given them a mortgage offer for the purchase  of one house but that had fallen  through. 
They understandably wanted  to know how much Santander was willing to lend them so they 
could continue to look for a suitable property. And theres no dispute that Santander then 
gave them the wrong information, telling them they could borrow up to £630,000 when it later 
became clear it had a policy  of not lending  more than £570,000 on a 90% mortgage.
Its up to Santander  to decide  how to calculate  affordability and how much it was willing  to 
lend to Mr J and Ms A. In this case, Santander has accepted it made a mistake  when  it told 
Mr J how much it was willing to lend but says no application for a mortgage and no mortgage  
offer had been  made for the new amount. This meant that it told Mr J and Ms A they had an 
agreement in principle  for a higher  amount of borrowing. But that was always subject to a full 
application. And it wasnt until they made a full application  that the mistake came  to light.
Its clear from the telephone calls Ive listened to that Santander made it clear to Mr J and 
Ms A that they would  need to make a new application for a mortgage and that they wouldnt 
be able to do that until: (i) theyd provided  the financial information Santander had asked for; 
and (ii) theyd found a property they wanted to purchase. In the February call, the adviser  
says the call is more about  preparing you for once  youve  found that property  and says,  call 
us then and we will do everything again  for you. The adviser  repeated the same message 
later in the call by saying  it can only revisit the application once it has got the information  it 
had asked for and Mr J and Ms A had found  a new property. The adviser says we have to 
base it on the property. Weve got to take all the details of that property as well. So then we 
can actually redo the whole  application.  Mr J confirms  that he understands this and says it 
makes sense.
Mr J and Ms A had only just been  through the mortgage application process  and I think its 
reasonable for them to have understood the risk of their application being refused despite  
what theyd been  told beforehand. Mr J has said he didnt  have  any reason to believe the 
information Santander had provided was wrong.  I accept that but the mortgage  might not 
have been approved for a number  of different reasons and it was at some  risk that Mr J and 
Ms A exchanged  contracts on their previous  property and paid for searches and legal  fees 
before a mortgage offer had been  made. And I think that risk could have been mitigated by 
waiting until an offer had been made.  
In light of the above, I dont think its reasonable to hold Santander responsible  for any 
commitments Mr J and Ms A entered into, or any related costs they incurred, before theyd 
made a mortgage  application. 
Mr J and Ms A want Santander to refund the ERC. But theyd agreed to the terms of the 
existing mortgage,  which included the ERC, and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask Santander to waive  that amount.
Santander did make  a mistake. It acknowledged that, apologised and offered to pay Mr J 
and Ms A £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator thought £250 would be a more 
appropriate amount  to recognise the impact of the mistake on Mr J and Ms A. Santander 
gave Mr J and Ms A the wrong information at a time when they were going through  the 
Ref: DRN34446963process of selling one house and looking for a new property to buy. That would have  added  
to an already stressful situation and I agree that £250 more accurately reflects  the trouble  
and upset they experienced as a result of Santander  giving them  the wrong information. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Im partly  upholding this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr J and Ms A a total of £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3444696