K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
BoS doesnt have a copy of the policy that wouldve been used for this sale.  So, where 
required, Ive relied  on what  we know about  these types of policies  and on my own 
experience of them. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:  
I think BoS made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. I say that because Ive 
seen a copy of Mr Ds signed application form, and on it I can see hes signed a separate  
section under where it says  YES I want  you to arrange Credit  Care Insurance  to protect  
my repayments.  Credit Care  Insurance is what the PPI was called. 
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
likely been useful  for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr D about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what he has said about  his sick pay 
and savings. But Mr D has given us different  and contradictory accounts of this, and hes 
been unable  to provide  any substantive  evidence.  So because  of that, on balance,  I think he 
still wouldve found the PPI useful.  
Ref: DRN30076412And that in turn means these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3007641