K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC ("Lloyds") mis-sold a Premier  packaged  bank 
account to her in 2010.
background
Mrs R also initially  complained about  the sale of a Platinum account  which  took place in 
2005. But Lloyds  accepted it shouldnt  have sold that account to Mrs R. And it refunded  all 
the fees, plus interest, Mrs R paid for that account.  As this is what  we wouldve told Lloyds to 
do if wed upheld the complaint, weve not looked into that sale.  So this decision  is only 
looking at the sale of Mrs Rs Premier  account which took place in 2010.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs R's complaint already and she didn't think that
Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account. Mrs R disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at her complaint  and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Rs complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, Im 
not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mrs R was given a clear  choice in taking this account.  
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. And in working out what  I think  is more  likely than not 
to have happened, I have  to think about everything I've been told together  with everything 
else I've been  provided with and see how this fits with what  I do know. In other words,  what  I 
have to do, in this case, is decide  what  I think  is more likely than not to have happened 
having weighed  up what Mrs R and Lloyds have been able to provide me with.
Mrs R upgraded to the Premier account from a fee paying Platinum one. But Mrs R had a 
free account  with Lloyds before she had the Platinum account. So I think  that Mrs R wouldve 
known that Lloyds did fee free accounts  and that she could've had one of those if that's what  
she really wanted. Mrs R says she wanted an overdraft limit increase and she was told that 
the only way this limit would be granted is if she agreed to the Premier account. I don't know 
what Mrs R was told at the time.  But I cant see that Mrs R did increase her overdraft limit at 
the time she upgraded to the Premier account. 
It might also help for me to explain that the Premier account included  a £500 interest free 
overdraft portion and a substantially discounted  interest rate on amounts over this as long as 
the accountholder  kept to their agreed  limit. This was substantially better than the £250 
interest free overdraft  portion  and slightly reduced interest rate Mrs R was getting as a result 
of having the Platinum  account.  
This meant that Mrs R was always likely  to save more  than the extra shed have to pay, in 
the increased fee for the Premier  account, if she used her overdraft to close to its limit. And 
what Mrs Rs said suggests it was always her intention  to use her overdraft regularly. So 
Ref: DRN33386882Lloyds was always likely to make  less overall as a result of Mrs R upgrading. And, in these 
circumstances, I think  its unlikely Lloyds  wouldve  actively misled Mrs R into thinking  that 
she had to have  the Premier account in order to get an overdraft limit increase. I cant see 
what the incentive to have  done this would be here.  
Overall and having thought about  everything, I think it's likely that Mrs R was given a fair 
choice in taking  out the Premier account and that she chose to upgrade as she, at the time at 
least, thought  that the benefits included might prove useful to have.
Lloyds says it recommended the Premier  account to Mrs R. So Lloyds  had to make a fair 
recommendation by taking adequate  steps to ensure that it was a reasonable fit for Mrs Rs 
circumstances. Having  thought about  Mrs R's circumstances and her actions since  the 
upgrade, I don't think that the recommendation of the Premier account by Lloyds was unfair  
or inappropriate.  I think that Mrs R had a need  for some of the benefits  and she could've  
used them. And it looks  to me that the account chosen was, on the whole, a reasonable 
match when  the benefits Mrs R had a need  for and may have wanted are taken into account.
As previously explained, Mrs R had an overdraft  when  she upgraded to the Premier account.  
Given just how reliant  Mrs R says she was on her overdraft, I think she was always  likely to 
save more than the increased  account fee for the Premier account in reduced  interest.
In any event, the Premier  account also included benefits such  as home emergency cover, 
travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile  phone insurance. And I think  that Mrs R also had 
a want and a need for all of these benefits. It looks like Mrs R travelled.  So I think  it's fair to 
say she had a need for travel insurance. As Mrs R appears to have  been  within  the age limit 
for the policy, was a United Kingdom  ("UK") resident and was registered  with a doctor, I've 
seen no obvious  reason  why she couldn't have made a successful claim on the policy if she 
needed to. And as she contacted the provider to discuss the cover on a number of 
occasions, I think that she may well have  been  relying on it.
Mrs R also drove and had a car. So I see no reason  why she couldn't  have used the 
breakdown cover included  on the account. And Mrs R went on to use the breakdown  cover  
on a number of occasions. Mrs R also registered four handsets for the mobile phone 
insurance. This suggests that she was relying on this cover and she found having it useful. 
Mrs R was also a homeowner. So I think that she couldve benefitted  from the home 
emergency cover. And she also used this benefit too.
Mrs R says she continued paying  for, at least some of, this cover elsewhere as a result of 
having another packaged account with a different bank. Ive not seen  anything  to suggest 
that she did and Id also point out that the sheer  amount  she used the benefits on the 
account contradicts  this. In any event, Mrs Rs actions suggest she knew  what was included  
on the account. So I can't hold Lloyds responsible if she did choose  to continue paying  for 
cover elsewhere. 
I accept that the Premier account  also included  some other benefits and that Mrs R may not 
have wanted or needed  each and every  one of them. But the benefits  on packaged accounts 
aren't tailored to individuals and it's rare for an accountholder to find every benefit  useful.  The 
Premier account was the only one in Lloyds' range which included the benefits that most 
closely matched what Mrs R appears to have  wanted and needed at the time. So I think  that 
it was a reasonable fit for Mrs Rs circumstances and I dont think  Lloyds recommendation 
was unfair  or inappropriate.
Ref: DRN33386883I'm open to the possibility  that Mrs R may not have been told everything she needed to know 
about all the ins and outs of the benefits.  But having  looked at her circumstances at the time, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that she wouldve been significantly affected by any of the 
main limitations or exclusions. So I dont think clearer information wouldve stopped Mrs R 
from taking the Premier  account in the first place. 
Mrs R may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe  that she hasn't benefitted from the 
account as much as she'd initially hoped and expected to when she upgraded. And given 
what she's read and heard about packaged bank accounts in general  and her complaint 
about her Platinum account  has been  upheld, I can understand  why she might  now think  her 
account was mis-sold.   But I think that Mrs R chose to accept what, on the face of things, 
appears to be a reasonable recommendation. And she looks to have  done  pretty  well out of 
having the Premier  account too. So having thought about all the information provided and 
listened to everything  Mrs Rs said, I dont think that the Premier account was mis-sold to 
her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3338688