K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a personal contract purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited (BH).
background
Mr S says hed never had a personal  contract purchase agreement  (PCP)  before. He says 
the dealership  gave  him a trade in value of £21,500 on his existing car. And he says the 
dealership told him if he used the whole car value as a deposit, he could have really low 
monthly payments,  which he says obviously sounded attractive.
Mr S also says when he came to trade the car in two years later the dealership  gave him a 
valuation indicating it was in negative equity. He says he decided  to get a second opinion  
from another dealership in the same brand of car. He says that dealership  explained in full 
how a PCP agreement  works. And he says it told him the most it would ever advise a 
customer to put down as a deposit  was £2,000 and it wouldve advised  him to put the rest in 
the bank for his next car.
BH says it wasnt present  when Mr S entered into his PCP agreement.  It says the 
dealerships confirmed it has customers looking to pay large deposit for lower monthly 
payments. However  they are advised of the risk and the dealership  would normally  suggest 
lower deposits with shorter periods and lower guaranteed future value to assist customers  
wishing to take out positive equity in the future.
BH also says its been advised Mr S will have been  presented with a balanced  finance  
product presentation by the dealership.  It says by signing the PCP agreement he agreed to 
be bound  by the terms and conditions. It says he had time to consider his application for 
finance before signing  the agreement.  And it says this time couldve been  used to contact 
BH or an independent financial adviser  to explain the agreement  further.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.   
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. He said the bottom line is it was his first 
PCP deal and he had no knowledge of how it worked. He said the dealership could see he 
had a big pile of cash and they took it, knowing full well he would lose out. And he said it is a 
classic mis-sold deal.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S clearly  feels  strongly  that he was mis-sold his PCP car finance agreement. But I have 
to decide whats  most  likely to have  happened,  based on the information available  to me.
Ref: DRN36306462I see Mr S has explained that this was his first PCP agreement, so he had no prior 
knowledge of how they work. Hes told us the dealership encouraged him to pay a large  
deposit in return  for relatively low monthly payments. And he says he was later told by 
another dealer that he wouldve been better  off paying a much lower deposit  and saving the 
rest of his money towards his next car.
I also see BH has acknowledged it wasnt present when  Mr S entered  into his PCP 
agreement, so it doesnt know what was said to him by the dealership.  But its drawn 
attention to his signed  agreement. It says he wouldve had time to seek expert advice about 
it, if he was unsure of the terms. And it says the dealerships  said it will have given him a 
balanced finance presentation before he agreed to enter into a PCP agreement.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont have enough  information  to conclude  its 
most likely the dealership  misled Mr S into paying  a relatively large  deposit  under his PCP 
agreement, rather  than a much  smaller  one. The information Ive seen indicates its equally 
plausible that he chose to proceed in this way so that he would have much lower monthly 
payments. And the indicative figures  BH has given us at my request suggest  the difference  
may have  been  as much as £600  per month.      
So, for theses reasons,  I cant conclude Mr S was mis-sold his PCP agreement.  And this 
means I cant fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against  Black Horse  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3630646