K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that MBNA Limited  (MBNA) mis-sold him payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) in 1994. 
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in February  2019, setting out why I thought  the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any further  submissions 
or information to me within one month. 
At Mr Ms request, I extended this time period by a further month.
MBNA agreed with my PD. Mr M didnt.
Im very grateful indeed to Mr M for the time hes taken to send in a reply particularly as hes 
said he hasnt been well recently. But Im afraid my final decision is that Im not upholding 
this complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint  Mr M.
This is a summary of what I said in my provisional  decision
Mr M bought the PPI in 1994 at the same  time as applying for a new MBNA credit card 
by post. Weve  got a copy of the original application form which looks  to me like a 
mailshot which would  have been  sent to Mr M. He then filled in his details, signed it 
and then sent the application back to MBNA  for the card and PPI to be set up. I note 
some of the personal details Mr M appears  to have used  on this form differ from ones 
hes given to us.
why is Mr M complaining about  the policy?
A substantial part of Mr Ms rationale in complaining about the PPI is that he has been 
paid out by other businesses for similar, but unrelated, mis-sold PPI policies. Perhaps  
not unsurprisingly then, he thinks he should be compensated  for this MBNA policy too.
Another major point  of complaint is that Mr M says he was caring  for his wife who was 
ill, over an extended  time period (1990-2012). As such, he doesnt think he would have 
been able to ever make  a claim on the PPI, because of the type of work he did. MBNA  
has challenged Mr Ms recollection of events.
Obviously 1994  is now some 25 years ago. So having the original application form is 
useful because it gives me a very good idea of what Mr Ms circumstances were  at the 
time. On the form, Mr M was very clear that he was employed. He gave  the name of his 
employer, what role he did and he was also very specific about  his salary.  His earnings 
seem to me to corroborate that he was a relatively well-paid full time employee.
Mr M now says this wasnt entirely  correct. He says he was actually caring  for his wife 
full-time and had been since 1990.  MBNA has concerns about this and some  of the 
other information he provided on the application  form at the time. It says Mr M hasnt 
been consistent and on the basis of what Ive seen, I agree with this.
is Mr M correct about his 1994  circumstances?
I note Mr M had another complaint with us relating to a 1996 matter, where  he also 
initially said he was employed (by the same employer), but later said he was a carer.  
Ref: DRN38330042And when asked  about this anomaly in more  detail he said what  he was actually doing 
was a combination of caring full-time for his wife  but was still on the books of the 
employer. It seems to me his explanation  in relation to this 1994  MBNA case  is 
therefore very similar.
However these sales were two years  apart  and Ive noticed  that many other 
particulars which  appear to have  been provided on the 1994 application form by Mr M 
(full name, date of birth) differ from the ones  hes now given to us to record  this 
complaint. Although this could be a matter  of concern, it doesnt fundamentally  affect  
my overall decision  about whether the policy was mis-sold to him or not. But I think its 
completely fair and reasonable  for me to use information Mr M himself entered on to 
the 1994 form and assume  these were correct  and accurate at the time. 
In doing  so, its therefore my decision that he was employed and so eligible for the PPI 
policy.
did Mr M agree to the PPI and was it explained  enough for him?
The credit card application form also gave Mr M a choice about  having PPI. I can see 
he ticked the yes box and left the no one blank. So I agree he consented to having 
the PPI and would have  been able to see it wasnt compulsory.
This wasnt an advised sale because  I think Mr M would have made  his application in 
his own time and posted off the form when  he was ready. So MBNA only had to make 
sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr M could  make 
an informed choice about whether or not he should  buy the policy.
I dont think MBNA set out all the information  about the PPI clearly enough, because 
the benefit  rate was only 3%. This means  that in the event of a successful claim, Mr 
Ms balance would have been reduced  by only 3% each month  and I dont think  this 
wouldve been very clear  to him. Although this could  have continued for up to a year, 
the benefit  rate in my experience was low and less than many other  providers were  
offering at the time. Nevertheless, it stated on the form that the PPI cost 65p for every  
£100 outstanding on the card and my current thinking is that this was probably enough 
for MBNA to justify  the cover  wasnt mis-sold on the grounds of cost, even though  it 
didnt do everything  right. Our adjudicator broadly came to the same  conclusion. 
what Mr M has said in response to these things
Mr M then responded   and as Ive said, Im conscious and sympathetic that these 
events were 25 years ago. Im also aware of the time its taken MBNA to handle his 
complaint, which he will no doubt feel frustrated about. So I do take into account that 
remembering the correct  information might be difficult for Mr M. 
He reiterated in his response  to our adjudicator that he was a carer, not an employee, 
at the time of the sale. I note he sent details in to us which appeared to show  the 
person he was caring for. But Im afraid  I found some  of this information  to be 
inconsistent with other details we have. And as Ive said above,  my decision is that 
what he wrote down  on the 1994 application  is more reliable - and that says he was 
employed.
Mr M also then said he had a number of pre-existing medical conditions which made 
the PPI useless  to him. He sent in a summary  in support of this. However, on the 
Ref: DRN38330043questionnaire we asked Mr M to fill out about  his complaint, we asked,  when  you took 
out this insurance,  did you . have  any health problems? to which he ticked no. 
summary
Ive looked at Mr Ms complaint with great  care. There are a number of inconsistencies 
in this case which I still need to clarify if I am to reach a fair and reasonable decision.  
I completely  accept that some could be explained  by the passage of time. But to be 
clear, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint  for reasons of employment. I think he gave 
clear and unambiguous information  when he applied  for the credit  card,  saying he was 
an employee, and so was eligible for this type of cover.
The information Mr M has since provided  about  his health  is, in my view,  also 
somewhat inconsistent  and so Im not currently minded to uphold his complaint on this 
point either.  Im very grateful for the information  Mr M sent in to us about  his health,  but 
in light of what Ive said above, it needs to be in a format that I can have confidence in. 
I feel sure he will understand  that point.  The sale was in July 1994. Ill look at any 
further information he wishes to provide about his health as it was then. 
But given the inconsistencies,  Id expect that information to be as comprehensive, 
complete and verifiable  as possible.
For the reasons set out above, Im not currently intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint  
or direct MBNA Limited to pay him any compensation.
my findings
Ive looked very carefully at what Mr M has said in his response to my PD. In relation to the 
various inconsistencies in his testimony I mentioned, Mr M provided reasons for the different 
spelling of his name and the use of a different date of birth on the credit  card application he 
signed when he was getting  his credit card and PPI in 1994. 
Ive said before that these inconsistencies,  in themselves, arent central  to whether or not the 
PPI was mis-sold. But they nevertheless  highlight  how the wider  information that Mr M 
provided hasnt  always  been accurate, for whatever reason.
Considering my PD and Mr Ms response, his complaint now broadly relates to two issues. 
The first is that he maintains he was a carer and not an employee  in 1994. This would of 
course mean  that the PPI was largely  useless  to him and should never have probably been 
sold. 
However, on this point, my final decision is that I dont think theres enough  evidence  to 
show his recollections  are correct. This is because Mr Ms own 1994  handwritten  credit  card 
application clearly  described him as an employee.  What he also was very specific  about was 
his salary and job title. And as Ive previously said, I note in a subsequent application for 
another very similar financial product, two years  later (1996),  Mr M once again described 
himself as an employee. Mr M said the 1996  sale isnt relevant to this complaint, but Im 
afraid I disagree.
Ref: DRN38330044The 1996  application form shows him employed  with the same employer hed mentioned  in 
1994, with the same  salary and a time employed  declaration which shows him being 
continuously employed throughout the mid 1980s and 90s.  
I make  a more detailed reference  to this matter in my PD. But essentially my point  is that I 
have what appears  to me to be contemporaneous  and reliable  evidence  that he was 
employed during  this time period. Mr M could not be both a full time employee  earning what 
seems to be a good salary  and also a full-time carer and in receipt of state benefits for that 
role. 
So, in my view theres  very persuasive evidence - provided by Mr M himself  - that he was an 
employee and therefore  potentially able to benefit  from having  unemployment  protection. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding his PPI mis-sale complaint on this aspect.
The second  point I need to make  a decision about  is Mr Ms health and whether it means he 
shouldnt have been sold the PPI. This is because most pre-existing medical conditions 
wouldnt be covered  by the PPI. This is always a difficult  issue to give an opinion on and I 
certainly wouldnt wish to imply Mr Ms health wasnt an important matter. I recognise this 
can appear an intrusive and personal area to make comment on but I need to make a 
decision about it, in the context of the PPI sale. 
As Ive said,  Mr M originally told us in his complaint that he didnt have any health problems 
at the time of making  his application for the card and PPI. After our adjudicator  had started to 
investigate his complaint however, Mr M sent in a handwritten  synopsis of his health issues 
spanning many  years.  The synopsis showed  him suffering from many health-related 
problems which might have made  claiming on the PPI quite difficult.  He would still be 
covered for the unemployment part of the PPI, but having ill heath could have meant the 
sickness cover on the PPI wasnt of much  use.
But because of the many  inconsistencies in Mr Ms testimony, I asked, in my PD, for 
comprehensive and verifiable information to help evidence  the ill-health issues Mr M said he 
had. I consider that request to a reasonable one and necessary to clear up ambiguity. 
I havent received  any such  evidence back from him although I can see Mr M re-submitted 
the handwritten  notes  he had already given to our adjudicator. Also,  in his reply  to my PD, 
Mr M himself says he wasnt so ill in 1994 as to make the PPI of no use. So Im not 
upholding his mis-sale complaint on this aspect either.
Id like to place on record that I dont doubt  Mr M feels he was mis-sold  this PPI cover. But 
my job is to interpret the evidence and testimony  we have from both parties in a fair and 
reasonable way. Taking account  of everything Ive seen, I think Mr M was eligible  for the PPI 
cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions  we see in these types  of policy.  I also 
think it was of use to him.
Also, in my view, the PPI was portrayed on his credit card application form as optional. For 
example, there was a section about  the PPI which said for just 65p per month per £100  of 
balance outstanding, you can protect  your payments against the effects  of todays unsteady  
job market .if youd  like to take advantage of this valuable, low cost peace of mind,  just tick 
the relevant box. There followed  a yes box and a no box. 
Mr M ticked the first of these and he signed  the application form. So I think this is strong 
evidence that the cover was something he wanted  to have at the time.
Ref: DRN38330045MBNA also had to provide enough information for the applicant to make an informed choice  
about what they wanted to do. As I said in my PD, I dont think  MBNA did everything right 
and I can see ways  in which  the form could have  contained more  or better information. But I 
think it was clear enough that the PPI came  with a cost and it showed Mr M how much  hed 
need to pay. And it broadly described  what the cover did. So overall, I think hed have known 
enough about the PPI to decide what he wanted to do. And we know he went  on to make the 
selection to buy it. If Mr M had made a successful claim, the PPI would have  paid off 3% of 
his balance for up to 12 months. I think this would have been of some  use to him.
Ive thought carefully about everything both parties have said. I cant  say why Mr M decided 
to buy the PPI, but the evidence is clear  enough for me that he wanted it and would have 
been able to see he had a choice.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. And dont require MBNA  Limited to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3833004