K821x#15complaint
Mr Js unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC is taking a payment  for a business loan on about the 
14th of the month. He says the loan agreement said it would take them  on the 28th of the 
month. He wants it changed.
background
Lloyds explained  the payments were taken  on 14th of the month as the agreement says they 
will be taken  28 days after the loan has been transferred to Mr Js account. But its accepted 
that the wording  couldve  been  clearer. It also cant see that the date the payment is taken 
makes any difference  to Mr J given  the regular payments made into the account he pays the 
loan from. Lloyds maintains the only way the payment date could be changed  to the 28th of 
the month would be for Mr J to make a full application for a new loan although this would 
entail a new credit check  and the money may not be available to him. Alternatively  it says he 
could make two payments  in one calendar month  on the 15th and 28th of the month so the 
payment date could  then effectively default to the 28th of the month. It said these are the only 
two options available. 
Lloyds has accepted Mr J has been  given poor service and its already arranged  to pay him 
a total of £175 compensation  for this.
Mr J agreed to apply for a new loan but says he wasnt contacted about this as promised 
and hes also unhappy with the process  involved. Mr J says the date of the payment  is 
important to him as he gets paid around the middle  of the month  when the loan payments 
are currently  taken.  
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
The credit  agreement  the parties  signed said under the tile First  repayment date 
that it will be on the 28th of the month  after the date the loan is borrowed.  Lloyds 
says the agreement couldve been clearer as this means payments will be taken 28 
days after the loan is processed and transferred to Mr Js account. But he doesnt 
agree. The credit  agreement clearly  says the payments will be taken on the 28th of 
the month. And if it did mean  what Lloyds  says that wasnt  made clear enough.
It was reasonable  for Mr J to expect his payments to be taken on the 28th of the 
month. Lloyds should honour what was originally agreed. 
The fact Mr J has made some payments doesnt  mean he will continue  to be able to 
do so if theyre taken on the 14th of the month.  And hes had to make changes  to the 
way he manages his finances to accommodate this. He may not continue  to be able 
to do so in the future as hes paid mid month.  Although taking the payment now on 
that date isnt causing Mr J problems, this doesnt  mean Lloyds shouldnt put things 
right. 
Lloyds says it cannot change the payment date but it hasnt said why it cant do so. 
To put things right Lloyds should  now do one of two things. Either  it should  change 
the date the payments are taken  to the 28th of each month ensuring Mr Js credit  file 
is unaffected and doesnt get marked with late payments.  And if Lloyds cannot do this 
because of any discrepancy in interest  it can ask Mr J to sign a declaration to agree 
Ref: DRN34138982there may be an additional  payment  to cover the interest at the end of the loan which  
will put Mr J back  in the position he shouldve been in. Or Lloyds can go through  a 
new loan application  with Mr J to ensure payments are taken on the 28th of each 
month. But in this case Lloyds will be responsible  for the loan processing and 
arrangement fees and it must pay Mr J an extra £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by having to go through this process again. Thats  in 
addition to the £175 already paid.
Lloyds says it would be prepared to go through a new application with Mr J but the new loan 
may not go through as it will need  to do more checks. This could leave Mr J with no loan if 
he has cancelled the existing one.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the wording of Mr Js credit agreement is simple and clear. It says the first repayment  
will be taken  on the 28th of the month after the date the loan is borrowed. And I think this 
means on any normal interpretation of what is said that repayments will be taken on the 28th 
of the month not the 14th as Lloyds has been doing.
Lloyds says the word  day was omitted from those  words. That may be the case. But this 
error wasnt brought to Mr Js attention  before or when he signed  the agreement. And I think 
Mr J is therefore reasonably entitled to expect payments to go out on the 28th of each month 
in line with the actual wording of the agreement he signed.
I therefore think Lloyds  has made  an error taking the payments on the 14th of the month  and 
its fair and reasonable for it to honour the terms of the agreement it signed with Mr J. As the 
investigator says the fact Mr J has accommodated  payments being taken on 14th of the 
month doesnt mean he will continue to be able to do so in the future and he clearly agreed 
this loan on the basis that making repayments  on the 28th of the month which  would assist  
his cash flow as he is paid midmonth.
Lloyds has repeatedly said it cannot change  the repayment date to the 28th of the month. But 
it hasnt explained  why it cannot  do this. Whatever the reason I think its fair and reasonable 
for Lloyds  to now allow Mr J to make his repayments  on the 28th of each month without  
Lloyds recording any adverse information on his credit record such as late payment markers. 
And as the investigator has said if Lloyds cannot do this because of any discrepancy  in 
interest it can ask Mr J to sign a declaration to agree there may be an additional payment to 
cover the interest  at the end of the loan which  will put Mr J back  in the position he shouldve 
been in under the agreement he signed.
Lloyds also says Mr J can apply for a new loan with a repayment date of the 28th of each 
month. But it cannot guarantee this loan would be approved as a new application must be 
made and new checks  carried out. As such it says theres a chance a new loan wouldnt be 
granted and Mr J could  find himself  without a loan if hes cancelled  the existing  loan.
I agree  with the adjudicator that this doesnt seem a fair resolution of matters. Even so I think 
its an option that should be available  to Mr J if he wants  to accept it, albeit on the 
understanding he may end up without any loan. And as the adjudicator  has said if he were to 
choose to make an application  for a new loan I think it would be fair for Lloyds to meet  all the 
Ref: DRN34138983fees and charges hed normally have to pay for doing so and for him to be paid an extra 
£300 compensation, in addition to the £175  already paid, for the additional inconvenience 
hed be caused  making the new application.
That aside I think that Lloyds payment of £175  compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr J has been  caused is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Lloyds Bank PLC should either:
1.Change the date the payments are taken to the 28th of each month, ensuring Mr Js 
credit file is unaffected by this and doesnt,  for example, get marked with adverse  
information such as late payment  markers. And if the reason Lloyds cannot  formally 
change the date of the repayments  to allow  this is because of any discrepancy in 
interest payable it can ask Mr J to sign a declaration  to agree there may be an 
additional payment to cover the interest at the end of the loan which will put him back  
in the position he shouldve been  in under the agreement;  or
2.Allow Mr J to apply  for a new loan with repayments taken on the 28th of each month 
in the knowledge that if he chooses  to do so he may not be granted a new loan and 
may end up with no loan.  If Mr J choses to go ahead with the new loan application  
Lloyds will be responsible for all loan processing  and arrangement fees and it must  
also pay him an extra £300 compensation for the additional  distress  and 
inconvenience he will be caused  by having to go through this application process  
again.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3413898