K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Leeds  Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2006.
background
I sent a provisional  decision  saying the PPI wasnt mis-sold but Leeds should give back  
some of the commission. But I said Id consider anything else Mr and Mrs L or Leeds wanted  
to give me. Leeds didnt  have anything new to add. Mr and Mrs L replied with more points. In 
the light of those, I asked  Leeds for more  clarification  and we sent more  to Mr and Mrs L 
and asked for anything  else they wanted to give us by 13 May 2019. They replied by phone  
around that time and Ive listened  to that call. I thank them for their further points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Having done so, Ive still decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L took a further  advance in 2006  by phone.  They bought PPI at that point. It 
covered them jointly. Theyve pointed out that there  isnt hard evidence as to what  was said 
to make them think they didnt have to take the PPI. But their recollections  of the sale dont 
include being told or misled into thinking PPI was compulsory. PPI was recommended and 
theyve said this influenced them into thinking they should  take it. But thinking they should 
take it is different  to thinking they must . And recommending cover isnt the same as saying it 
has to be taken. Ive not seen  anything to make me think Mr and Mrs L were led to believe 
they had to take PPI to get the further  advance.  The free cover  expiry letter sent a while  after 
the sale doesnt change my view. On balance what I have and what Mr and Mrs L have said 
makes me think they followed Leeds recommendation knowing they didnt have to.
Leeds sold the PPI on an advised basis, so it shouldve assessed  Mr and Mrs Ls needs  and 
made sure the PPI was right for them. I havent proof  that Leeds asked enough to make a 
properly informed recommendation. But even  if Leeds didnt ask all the relevant questions,  
this doesnt mean the recommendation was wrong. So Ive considered whether the PPI was 
right for Mr and Mrs L based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs L have pointed out they both had excellent company sick pay. But taking this 
into account, I still think they wouldve suffered a loss of income if either one of them  couldnt  
work for a time due to sickness.  For example  Mr Ls pay wouldve halved  after six months. 
Likewise if Mr L had been made  redundant  its likely  hed have suffered a loss of income.
Mr and Mrs L have emphasised they were financially comfortable and couldve made up any 
shortfall in various  ways   such as net rental  income, savings,  Mrs Ls pensions  and equity 
in a rental property  and in their main home. I accept that they couldve chosen  to do this. But 
taking the PPI made it less likely theyd have to, so it helped protect their savings and their 
net equity income,  or helped prevent them having to tap the equity in their properties  or draw 
on pensions earlier than they might want.
Ref: DRN36666202From what  Ive seen there wasnt anything  to stop Mr or Mrs L making a successful claim on 
the cover  if the circumstances  arose.  With all Ive said above  in mind, and not doubting that 
Mr and Mrs L were  financially secure,  I still dont think it was wrong for Leeds  to recommend 
what was an affordable insurance to cover a mortgage and provide  additional  security  at 
what could be a difficult time if Mr or Mrs L suffered disability for a time due to sickness or 
accident or Mr L suffered redundancy.
Mrs L may not have  needed PPI redundancy cover, but this doesnt affect the suitability of 
the other policy benefits for Mr and Mrs L. And given the claim the PPI redundancy cover  
paid out for Mrs L, theres no suggestion Mr and Mrs L lost out from buying  that cover. So 
the recommendation of redundancy cover for Mrs L isnt a reason to award  redress  either.
Its possible the information Leeds  gave  Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But what Mr and Mrs L have told us makes clear  that they took the cover 
having given Leeds details of their work benefits   so with those  benefits  in mind it looks  like 
they still saw a benefit in having  this type of cover. Leeds also told Mr and Mrs L how much 
the cover  would cost  it was on the illustration  Leeds sent them. So Mr and Mrs L decided 
to buy the cover knowing its cost. And, as noted  above, it looks like they couldve claimed on 
the cover  if something went wrong.  Overall, I dont  think better information about the PPI 
wouldve changed the decision Mr and Mrs L made  to take the cover.
Leeds originally  thought  the cover was changed in 2011 to cover Mr L only.  Its now unclear 
what exactly did happen then, except Mr and Mrs L recall coming off a fixed  mortgage term 
and going onto another one. They dont recall  any discussion  at the time of changing names 
on the PPI. Also they point out that if they had asked for a change, they wouldve queried  
things when they got documents  that showed  the change hadnt been made  which seems 
a fair point. Whatever  was supposed  to have happened at that time, and whether anything 
was changed  or not, Ive seen no suggestion  that it led to Mr and Mrs L losing out financially 
or paying any more  than they wouldve done  anyway. So this doesnt affect my assessment.
Ive thought about all the points Mr and Mrs L have made. But, for the reasons above, I dont 
think Leeds should have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. But Leeds will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
When the policy was sold,  Leeds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs L about 
that. Because Leeds didnt tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right,  Leeds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Mr and Mrs L have said this commission rate is high and Ive listened to all theyve said 
about this. So Ive considered whether Leeds  ought to repay more. Mr and Mrs L have said 
there was a court case where the consumer received everything back, for example.
In that regard, one of the things I need to take into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is the law. But I also need  to 
take into account relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards;  codes of practice; and 
(where appropriate)  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the relevant time.
In this case Leeds has made Mr and Mrs L an offer of compensation for the commission  it 
received that is in-line with the methods set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I 
Ref: DRN36666203have looked at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs L and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont 
lead to fair and reasonable  redress for them. I dont think there is and, bearing in mind what  
Ive said above  about the offer being in line with the methods set out by the FCA, I still think 
the offer Leeds has made is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
Leeds should pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Leeds should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Leeds should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Leeds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs L for their patience and their courtesy throughout our investigation 
and consideration of their complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. 
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3666620