K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system she says was misrepresented  to her by the supplier.
background
In or around October 2015,  Ms H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about buying a solar panel system  (the system) to be installed  at her home. After 
being visited by a representative  of P, Ms H decided to buy the system and finance it 
through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement  with Shawbrook.  The system was installed 
soon after.
In February 2017  Ms H made a claim under  section  75 of the Act to Shawbrook.  Ms H 
explained the following:
she was in financial difficulties and was struggling to repay the loan;  
P told her the feed  in tariff (FIT) would cover the loan repayments;
she would not have bought the system if she had known that the FIT payments would 
not cover  the loan repayments;
her home had been badly flooded only days before the sale and she doesnt  believe 
the panels should have been  sold to her as she was under too much stress at the 
time.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said it didnt agree the system had been  
misrepresented to Ms H or that there  were  any other  reasons for the claim to be upheld. In 
summary, it said:
the contract with P showed  that the expected  annual return  in year one was £188.08 
from the FIT, and the credit agreement made it clear that the monthly repayments 
were £104.82 or £1,257.84 so its clear  theres a deficit; and
P claims  it sold the system correctly and the system is generating in line with the 
estimated figures.
Unhappy with this response,  Ms H referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered  all the information  and 
evidence provided,  although our investigator didnt think  the system had been 
misrepresented to Ms H, she didnt  think that P should have sold the system given Ms Hs 
difficult circumstances at the time.
Shawbrook did not respond to the investigators assessment so the case has been  passed 
to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the system  wasnt misrepresented to Ms H, but there are 
other compelling reasons why P shouldnt have sold the system to Ms H when it did. 
Ref: DRN35566702Ms H has explained  that her house  was severely  flooded. She had four feet of water  in her 
kitchen and lost most  of her belongings. This was three days before P attended her house  to 
sell the panels.  Ms H says the damage  could  still be seem clearly at the time of the meeting.  
Ms H has said that she was in a state of shock at the time and for some time afterwards 
which resulted in her having a breakdown some months later.
Our investigator asked  Shawbrook for their comments on this and information  about Ps 
vulnerable consumer policy. Shawbrook did not provide any information  about this so I have  
completed my decision based  on the information we have. I agree with the investigators  
conclusions for the same  reasons.
I think it would have  been clear at the point of sale that Ms H was in a vulnerable position 
due to the recent flooding at her home. P should have realised it should have taken extra  
care.
This could  have included postponing the meeting until later,  and/or  having someone else at 
the sales meeting  to support Ms H and/or at the very least leaving a copy  of the quotation 
document with her to read and digest the information about the cost and benefit  of the 
system prior to her agreeing to enter into the contract. 
The evidence provided shows  the quotation was not sent to Ms H until around a month after 
the initial sales pitch.
Therefore, I have concerns about  the sales process followed by P when thinking about 
Ms Hs circumstances  at the point  of sale. Shawbrook have been unable  to provide any 
information showing that Ms Hs circumstances were considered reasonably  when the 
panels were sold,  and the credit arranged.
fair compensation
Our role is to resolve individual disputes  between  consumers  and businesses  fairly, 
reasonably, quickly  and informally. Determining fair compensation is more difficult  in a case  
like this where solar panels have  been installed at the property.
In this case, I think fair compensation should  try to make sure that Ms H doesnt suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would  mean  that the solar  panel system should be cost 
neutral over the 10-year loan term.  In summary,  my aim is to make sure that total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) are equal  to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the
known and assumed  savings  and income  to Ms H from the solar  panels over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays  no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system.  This 
will put Ms H in a cost neutral position over the loan term.
Normally, by recalculating  the loan this way, Ms Hs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she will have paid more each month than she should  have, resulting in an
overpayment balance.  And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
the overpayment  to the date of settlement. And I think  the fairest resolution would be to let 
Ms H have the following options as to how she would like the overpayments  to be used:
Ref: DRN35566703a)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make the current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly  payment until the end of the loan term/repayment  of the loan,
c)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and she continues  to make her 
current monthly payment  resulting  in the loan finishing  early,  or
d)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and she pays a new monthly  
payment until the end of the loan term/repayment  of the loan.  
I also think that Shawbrook should  pay £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused Ms H.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint. And I direct Shawbrook  Bank Limited  to 
recalculate the loan as set out above,  including the additional 8% simple interest, and give 
Ms H the above options for how to treat the overpayments she will have made.  I also direct  
Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay Ms H £300 for distress and inconvenience Ms H has been 
caused.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3556670