K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined his claim for items  stolen from his 
car when  thieves gained access by smashing a window.  
background
Mr H made  a claim under his home  contents policy for loss of personal possessions. The 
items stolen  from the car were a laptop, a number  of electrical  items and associated  cables.
UKI declined  the claim using a policy term which says that personal possessions stolen from 
an unattended car are covered but only if the vehicle is locked and your possessions  are 
hidden from view in a closed glove compartment or locked boot. Because  the items were  
hidden under a seat, and not in a closed glove compartment or locked boot, UKI declined the 
claim.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  and thought the claim should  be 
reconsidered as the term used to decline the claim was not material  to the loss. He said the 
boot space is only covered by a parcel shelf which could be removed from inside the 
passenger compartment.  Because of this he thought its likely the items would have been 
taken even if they were  locked in the boot when the window was smashed to access the car. 
He didnt think the items being hidden under a seat,  and not in the boot, was material  to 
them being  stolen. 
UKI disagreed with the investigator saying whilst it appreciates there  is no lockable boot the 
policy wording is clear. UKI also raised doubts  about  the number of items under the seat and 
how large the space  was. Because  UKI disagreed the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I can see why UKI when strictly applying  the policy terms have declined the claim. Its not in 
doubt the items were stored under  a seat,  and not the boot or glove compartment. However,  
I am required to reach a decision  on what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
From the wording of this part of the policy is seems  to me that the intention,  and spirit, of 
term is that any items in an unattended car should  be hidden from view.  Items hidden from 
view wouldnt  be on display and act as an attraction for potential  thieves. Mr H took steps to 
keep his items hidden  from view by putting  them under a seat.  Thinking about  things in a fair 
and reasonable way, Im satisfied Mr H complied with the intention and spirit of the policy by 
hiding the items from view. 
As our investigator explained, the boot of the car is covered by parcel shelf which can be 
easily accessed and removed from the passenger compartment. Entry was made  to the car 
by a smashed  window,  so it seems likely that had the items been hidden  from view in the 
boot they still would have been  taken.
Ref: DRN39116942UKI has raised some concerns about the size of the space under the seat considering  the 
number of items hidden  there. However  I have seen no evidence to dispute  the events as 
described by Mr H.
Im satisfied that Mr H complied with the intention of the policy  term by hiding his items out of 
sight under  the seat.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and require  
UK Insurance Limited  to reconsider Mr Hs claim subject to the other policy terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3911694