K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited declined  his claim under his property insurance 
policy for external  storm damage and internal accidental damage  caused by a storm unfairly.
background
Mr R made  a claim for damage to his roof, wall and the interior of his bedroom  after tiles 
came off his roof during  a storm. Mr R went ahead with repairs to his roof before esure had 
the opportunity  to inspect the damage  but he took photographs of the damage as advised by 
esure when  he called them about the claim.  Despite  this, esures surveyor  examined the 
property and reported on the damage  he could find.  esure  declined  the claim  because  its 
surveyor said the damage was mainly  due to wear and tear on the property which  led to the 
tiles coming loose in the storm. He felt the damage to the wallpaper in the bedroom  was also 
due to ongoing deterioration rather than a one off event. Mr Rs policy excludes claims for 
damage which is due to wear and tear. Mr R wasnt happy about this so he complained  but 
esure rejected his complaint.  So he came  to this service. 
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint in part. He said he thought  the damage to the 
rendering of the wall was down to the poor condition  of the wall but, based on the evidence 
he had, he thought it was likely the damage to the roof was primarily caused by the storm. 
But esure responded to his view with further evidence  of the condition of the roof and the 
wallpaper. On review, the investigator felt the damage to the roof wouldnt have happened if 
the condition of the roof had been better and agreed the damage  to the wallpaper couldve 
been due to ongoing issues. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed and said his roof had been  in decent  condition  and the storm had caused  the 
damage so he asked for a review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Rs policy  includes cover for storm and flood damage which  specifies the following:
What is covered?
We will pay for loss of or damage  to Your Buildings  or Contents as a result of Storm or 
Flood.
The storm peril is insured as a one-off  event  and so I have checked to see if there were 
storm conditions on the day the damage occurred. I am satisfied from the weather records  
that this was the case. Dislodged tiles are consistent  with damage a storm causes as is wall 
damage, but I might not expect render to de-bond from a wall as this ought to be able to 
withstand storm conditions. I have considered the extracts from the expert report about  the 
damage from the surveyor who said the property has been  suffering from gradual 
deterioration of mortar  pointing  to the ridge  which has caused tiles to become loose and the 
recent weather  conditions  to merely highlight to defects already present  to the property.  He 
also advised the render  to the wall has deteriorated over time and become debonded  from 
the stone wall and due to the render being lose this has come  away  from the wall. I put 
more weight on this account than a builders report.  Ive also looked carefully at the photos 
provided which show the condition of the roof and the wall compared to the property next 
Ref: DRN30794402door. Its clear from the photos that there  are signs of wear and tear on both the roof and the 
rendering and that there was a need for maintenance to make  sure tiles didnt come  loose.  
Mr R said that during the storm  water entered through his damaged roof and caused  
damage to his bedroom. This claim cant succeed under the storm peril if the external 
damage claim fails. However  Mr R also has Accidental Damage cover  and these claims can 
succeed if they are one-off damage  even though the proximate cause  roof damage  may 
be excluded by a term of the policy. However, the same exclusions apply to Storm  and 
Accidental Damage  perils  and B says the damage to the bedroom is a gradually operating 
cause as evidenced by black mould  on the wall. 
There is a general exclusion in the policy for wear and tear which  states:
We will not pay for loss, damage  or any liability resulting directly or indirectly from:

Wear and tear:
wear and tear
loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance

loss or damage that happens  gradually  over time (for example, loss or damage as a 
result of wet rot or dry rot, or loss resulting from wet rot or dry rot, rusting, corrosion, 
the affects of light or the atmosphere,  damp, condensation, fading, moths, vermin, 
birds, insects, fungi or other  gradual deterioration).
Based on the surveyors report  and the photos Ive seen  of the condition of the roof, wall 
rendering and the black mould  on the back of the wallpaper, I think  it was reasonable for 
esure to conclude that both the internal and external damage were caused  directly or 
indirectly by wear and tear or lack of maintenance and to decline the claim on that basis.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3079440