K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs L took out to cover the repayments on a store  card 
in 1997. Its been agreed  that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to FICL  in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think Mrs L was 
eligible for it, and so it wouldnt have been  of any use to her.
I havent seen  the specific  policy document for Mrs Ls policy.  But I have  seen policy 
documents for similar  policies from around  the same  time. And so I think its likely  that, in 
order to be eligible for the policy, Mrs L would need to have been  working  for at least 16 
hours per week.
But when she initially brought her complaint to this service, Mrs L told us that she was 
working for less than 16 hours per week. And when asked for clarification about this, she 
confirmed the hours  she worked, that this was less than 16 hours per week and said shed 
never worked full time.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Ls application form for the store  card. But this was 
completed several months  before the sale of the PPI, and both the full time and part time 
options are selected,  so I dont think this is conclusive.
Mrs L has been consistent about  working less than 16 hours  per week  throughout her 
complaint with this service. Shes  provided further detail when requested  and I havent seen 
any conclusive evidence to contradict what Mrs L has said.  So, based  on the evidence I 
have, I think its likely  Mrs L was working  less than 16 hours per week at the time of the sale, 
and so she wasnt eligible  for the PPI.
The eligibility requirements for the PPI werent  set out on the store  card application  form. 
And I havent seen  clear  evidence that they were made clear to Mrs L at any other  time 
before the sale. So I think  its likely FICL didnt make the eligibility  requirements  clear to 
Mrs L before  the sale. And I dont think Mrs L wouldve  bought the policy  if shes realised she 
wasnt eligible for it. So I think Mrs L has lost out as a result of what  FICL  did wrong.
Ref: DRN31092562putting things right
FICL should put Mrs L in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs L would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs L owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs L 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs L 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs L a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3109256