K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains about what  happened  when she ported her Lifetime mortgage with 
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited in 2011 . Shes  unhappy that she wasnt allowed 
to port as much of the existing debt as she should,  and says this stopped her buying the 
right property. Miss Ts Lifetime mortgage is held on an interest  roll-up basis,  so no monthly 
repayments need to be made.
background
Miss T had a Lifetime mortgage with Prudential and was moving property in 2011. She was 
downsizing significantly and was told by Prudential she had to repay more of the existing 
debt than she should under the terms of her agreement.
The error came to light in 2014 and Prudential wrote  to Miss T to explain. It gave her the 
option to borrow  the extra £32,566.56 on the understanding her mortgage debt would 
increase by the same amount. Prudential also said it would pay £7,434.81  (net) interest from 
April 2011 (when  the port happened) to October  2014 (when the settlement was made)  to 
take into account that Miss T had been denied the money for that time. Miss T accepted  the 
offer.
In 2018 Miss T complained again. I wont go into detail  here about  the timeline of that 
complaint as matters  have been protracted, and things have moved on substantially.
In November 2018 Miss T moved house again  and ported  her Lifetime  mortgage.  This time 
she was buying  a slightly more expensive property;  with a sale price of £315,000 and a 
purchase price of £327,500. Miss T ported  her existing mortgage across  and had to fund the 
difference from her own funds.
The current  position  is that Prudential has offered to cover the costs  of Miss Ts 2018 move 
which it calculated to be £9,702. It said Miss T should let it know  of any corrections  or 
additions required,  and that interest would be added from the date each cost was incurred to 
the date of settlement. It also offered £2,000 in compensation.
Our investigator thought Prudentials offer was fair. Miss T didnt agree and so its been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss T has set out her account  of events 
in considerable detail.  I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her 
complaint in the way that I have.  Ours  is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Miss T. But although  Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial between, and independent  from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
Ref: DRN35786692Miss T has used fairly emotive words in her complaint, such as illegal, fraud, negligent,  
duplicitous and deceptive. Whilst I can understand Miss Ts emotional connection to this 
complaint, I have to take a step back and look at things without the emotion involved. And 
having done so this complaint is much  simpler  than Miss T thinks  it is.
Prudential made  a mistake in 2011  when it told Miss T she could only port £78,000 rather  
than £110,566. Prudential proactively admitted to that mistake in 2014  and contacted  Miss T 
to ask what she wanted to do to put it right. It said she could  now borrow  the extra £32,566, 
on the understanding her mortgage  debt would increase by that much  and Miss T accepted 
that offer. The £32,566 was released to Miss T and a further £7,434 was paid to take into 
account the interest Miss T would  have earned  had she invested that sum in 2011.
Miss T has said
Firstly the money returned to me was my money  which was transferred  at my request to 
my outstanding Lifetime Mortgage and is now being  charged at 7.37% interest rate so, no 
loss to the Pru.
Secondly, they would  have received interest on my money before it was returned to me so 
the payment of £7,434.81  again, was no loss to the Pru!!
Redress is not intended to be a loss to the business. Instead its designed to put the 
consumer back in the position (as far as possible) they would have been in had the error not 
occurred.
Miss T should have  been allowed to port £110,566 in 2011 (rather than £78,000). Had that 
happened Miss T would  have had an extra £32,566  in her pocket in 2011 to invest,  but her 
mortgage debt would  have been £110,566  (rather  than £78,000)  and that extra  amount 
would have been incurring interest  at 7.37%. The payment of interest totalling £7,434 
compensates Miss T for the fact she didnt have that £32,566 in her pocket until October 
2014 (rather than April 2011). But Prudential hasnt backdated the extra £32,566  in 
mortgage debt,  which it should have done, so Miss T is actually significantly better off 
financially as shes not incurred the 7.37% interest roll-up on that amount for the same 
period.
Miss T could never have had the £32,566  in her pocket without her mortgage  increasing by 
the same  amount. So the 2014  redress actually put Miss T in a better position than she 
would have been in had things not gone wrong in 2011 as she now had the extra  £32,566, 
had been paid backdated interest on it but hadnt been charged  backdated  mortgage  related 
interest on it. The best way for Miss T to think about it is that is nothing  had gone wrong in 
2011 she would have ported a £110,566 mortgage  and incurred 7.37% roll-up interest on 
that entire debt from that point. She would have had an extra  £32,566 in her pocket but 
would have had to have found a way to earn 8% simple per annum on that sum to even 
match the amount  of interest Prudential has paid her in compensation.
Miss T now says she would have bought a house in 2011 rather  than a flat had she been  
given the correct information.  Whilst Ive given careful consideration to that point Im not 
persuaded by it. All the contact notes refer to Miss T only looking at flats in 2011. Miss T has 
said thats because  shed been told the maximum amount she could port, but having looked 
at the market in the area at the time Miss T could have bought a house (that didnt need 
extensive work, as Miss T has claimed) rather than a flat if thats  what  she truly wanted. 
Ref: DRN35786693As Ive said,  Miss T has told us she would have bought a house  rather  than a flat in 2011 
which meant she wouldnt have  needed  to move  again. When  considering any complaint like 
this, as Miss T is the one bringing the complaint against Prudential,  to uphold the complaint 
Miss Ts version  needs to be more likely than Prudentials version; not just as likely . Having 
considered everything  I cant  say Miss Ts version is anything more  than just as likely,  which  
isnt enough for me to uphold this part of her complaint.
Miss T has also said the first flat she wanted fell through  due to the loan to value porting 
restriction. She said Prudential denied her the opportunity to purchase the property  and the 
level of facilities in the first flat would have provided  for her future, But thats  not correct.  The 
first purchase fell through  because  the surveyor significantly down-valued the property as 
Miss T had put an offer in at £272,000 but the surveyor said it was only worth £240,000. 
Thats nothing to do with the loan to value restriction; instead it was that the surveyor  thought 
the property wasnt  worth as much  as Miss T had offered to pay.
All that said,  Prudential offered to cover  an estimated £9,702 towards Miss Ts moving costs 
for 2018 plus £2,000 compensation. Since  then Prudential  has increased that offer further.  I 
dont make any findings on the extra  costs  Miss T wants  to claim as the offer isnt one I 
would have ordered Prudential to make. So it would be wholly inappropriate for me to now 
order Prudential to increase its offer. Had this complaint come to me without any offer 
relating to the 2018 moving costs then I wouldnt have made any award.  This is because  Im 
not persuaded its more likely  than not that Miss T would have made a significantly different 
decision in 2011  had things not gone  wrong. I consider the offer from Prudential is a very fair 
one and I would suggest Miss T seriously  considers accepting it.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but only insofar as I consider  The Prudential Assurance Company  
Limited has made fair offers to resolve  this complaint. I leave it to Miss T to decide  if now  
on reflection  she wants to contact  Prudential directly to accept those offers. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject  my 
decision before  19 January  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3578669