K820x#14complaint
Ms F has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited overcharged  her when 
she added  her son to her motor insurance policy.
References to Advantage include its agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 17 April 2019. For ease I've reproduced the key parts of 
that below: I said:
Ms F contacted Advantage about  adding  her son to her policy.  Advantage said she could do 
so for a fee of around £925 (including a £25 admin  charge).  Ms F paid the additional 
premium to cover her son. But she later complained when she found out that the additional 
premium was only for the remaining  three  months  of her policy and not for a full policy year.  
So she said that Advantage  should  refund her the additional premium.  
Advantage didn't pay a refund, although it offered Ms F £75 compensation for giving her 
poor advice  about  her no claims  bonus. Ms F brought her complaint about  the additional 
premium to us. Our adjudicator didn't think that Advantage had dealt with Ms F fairly. But our 
adjudicator noted  that Ms F had contributed to the situation and that Ms F had the benefit of 
cover for her son for three months. So our adjudicator  said that Advantage should be 
allowed to charge Ms F for the time her son was on cover based  on an annual fee of £925 
and refund her half of the balance which was £305.50.
Neither Ms F nor Advantage  agreed with our adjudicator so the complaint's  been passed to 
me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it. 
Ms F contacted Advantage about  adding her son to her policy by webchat  and I've seen the 
transcript of that. She asked if she could add her son to her policy  and after running 
through some details  Advantage  told her that: If you would like to make that change your 
premium will increase  by £925.93 
Ms F said that she interpreted  that to mean that she was paying for a new 12 month policy  
for the £925 premium. I don't doubt that was Ms Fs interpretation but I don't think  that 
Advantage gave  her the impression that it was a new policy  in the webchat.
Ms F was clearly  asking  to add her son to her existing policy.  She didn't enquire about  taking 
out a new policy and didn't ask if she would be due a refund for the remaining term of her 
current policy. And Advantage  told her that her premium would increase by £925. In other  
words it was £925 more  than she had already paid for the premium on her existing policy. I 
don't think  Advantage did anything to indicate that this was a new policy. If Ms F 
misunderstood that I don't think it was because of a lack of clarity  on Advantages part.
Ref: DRN33241292Also Advantage sent Ms F a new policy schedule showing that it had made changes to her 
policy. And that schedule  is clear  that the additional premium she paid was only for the 
remaining period  of her policy.  It seems  that Ms F didn't look carefully  at this document,  as if 
she had she would have  realised straightaway that the extra cover was only for the 
remaining period.  And I don't think its Advantages fault that Ms F didn't  read the document 
carefully.
Ms Fs said that when  she complained Advantage admitted the ambiguity  of the information  
provided in the webchat. I've listened  to the call concerned. Advantage did acknowledge that 
the information given could have  been clearer. And the call handler said he understood 
where Ms F was coming from. He added  that from now on, in similar  circumstances, it would 
also tell policyholders the end date of the policy its customers were paying  the extra 
premium for. But I don't  think thats  the same as admitting ambiguity. Instead I think the call 
handler was simply responding positively to Ms Fs feedback. And Advantage had identified 
that it could make an improvement in future. But simply because  a business can improve  a 
process doesn't automatically mean that the process  it replaces was unclear or 
inappropriate. And as I've said above,  I don't think Ms Fs misunderstanding was because  of 
a lack of clarity.
Ms Fs said that no-one  in their right mind  would  pay such a high amount for three  months 
cover. But the additional  premium Ms F paid was roughly equivalent of £3,600 a year. But 
Ms Fs son is still a fairly young driver and most insurers Im aware  of will charge high 
premiums for people in his circumstances. So while Advantages  increased premium was a 
significant sum, it's not out of line with premiums  charged by other insurers  to cover 
policyholders with circumstances similar  to Ms Fs son. And insurers do sell policies at those  
premiums, so I don't agree that no-one in their right mind would pay that amount. In fact 
when she spoke to Advantage  about her complaint  she commented that she thought 
Advantages quote was cheap, as other insurers had quoted sums of over £3,000. So 
given that polices for younger drivers can and do cost those sums, I don't think  Advantage 
should have realised that Ms F wouldn't have  wanted to pay it.
It follows that I don't think Advantage did anything  wrong.
developments
Ms F spoke with our adjudicator and told her she didn't agree with my provisional  decision. 
Ms F said she thought  that the evidence showed  that Advantage was at least  partly  to blame 
for the situation.  So she felt she should  receive some of the premium back  and would accept 
the redress the adjudicator recommended previously.
Advantage didn't make  any further  comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ms F has essentially  repeated that because Advantage recognised  its information  could 
have been clearer  that was evidence  it caused  her to pay more than she wanted  to for the 
amended policy.  But I don't  agree.  As I said in my provisional decision I don't think  Ms Fs 
misunderstanding was because of any lack of clarity  on Advantages behalf.  
Ref: DRN33241293Also, l think  its worth  repeating that the fact Advantage can improve  its communication  
procedures doesn't mean that what went before that improvement was necessarily  unclear.  
It follows that I don't think Advantage did anything  wrong. So I won't be making any award 
for redress.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3324129