K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that the finance agreement which he entered  - and for which Inchcape  Retail 
Limited acted as credit broker - was misrepresented. He wants  a refund of the cost of an 
extended warranty and the interest  paid on the final optional payment.
background
Mr A tells us he visited an Inchcape dealer  in March 2018 with a view to purchasing a new 
vehicle. He says his preferred option  was to raise finance via a bank loan. But having been 
advised by a sales agent Ill call E, he says he was persuaded  to enter a personal contract 
purchase plan (PCP). He says he was told this was the most economical method to 
purchase the vehicle  compared to a bank loan or traditional hire purchase  agreement.  He 
says hes now discovered the advice was misleading and hed be paying additional interest. 
Mr A further complains he wasnt shown the details of the agreement prior to electronically 
signing the contract.  And he says that he paid a deposit of £2,700 - but has now found that 
£1,298 has been deducted to pay for an extended  warranty. He says E told him this would 
be supplied  free by Inchcape.
Despite numerous  requests  Inchcape  has not provided us with a business  file.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 July 2019. I indicated  that I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint but only in respect of the payment relating to the extended 
warranty - which  I thought had been  misrepresented.
Mr A replied  accepting my provisional decision.  Inchcape did not reply.  As Ive not been 
provided with any further information I dont see any need to alter my provisional decision 
which is largely repeated  in my final decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A feels  hes been misled over the terms of the financial agreement. And I 
understand that the paperwork and form filling - which almost  inevitably is involved at some 
stage in the process - be it online or at the business  premises - can be very tedious.
 Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In trying to resolve complaints,  we listen to what the 
parties tell us, and we look to documentary and other evidence to help us reach  a decision. 
Mr A is alleging that the terms  of the PCP were misrepresented. Hes told us that he was 
given information  and assurances  which he says have  now turned out not to be true. Ive no 
reason to doubt that Mr A has told us what he honestly believes he was told. But whether his 
recollection is correct is a separate issue.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to act upon it by 
entering into a contract. And its by no means  uncommon for parties  to the same 
conversation to have  different recollections of what was said. In this case Ive only had Mr 
As account directly.  But Ive seen the agreement  which appears to have been electronically 
signed by Mr A.
Ref: DRN36190082Its reasonable to assume that before signing a document, electronically or otherwise, a 
customer will check and/or raise  any queries  they may have before signing. And whilst I 
suspect most of us have  not always been as careful  in this respect as might be prudent, the 
failure to check or ask questions does not mean  a business  cannot rely on a signed 
document.
Im aware Mr A says he didnt see the document until about  two weeks after hed taken 
delivery of the vehicle.  But the customer declaration which appears immediately above the 
electronic signature  contains the following provisions:
By signing this agreement you confirm and agree that:
 You have been given  a pre-contract credit information document;
 You have been given  both a written and a verbal  explanation relating to certain aspects of 
this agreement, including the features that may make the credit  unsuitable,  the payment 
details, the affordability  of the payments, the total amount payable, the features that may 
have an adverse effect on you, and right of withdrawal information.
In the circumstances I cant say there is persuasive evidence which allows  me to say that in 
respect of the nature of the agreement and payments  - including  the optional  lump sum final 
payment figure - there was any misrepresentation.
Where I think there probably was a misrepresentation  was in respect of the allocation of 
£2,700 which Mr A paid at the start of the agreement. There are receipts  for £500 and 
£1,500 paid by Mr A - as well as reference  to a part-exchange allowance  of £700.  This 
amounts to £2,700. Yet the finance  agreement refers to only a deposit of £1,402.
A form headed New Vehicle Order sets out the price of various  items  and refers to:
Balance Transferred To Supplementary  Order  Number xxxx655 £1298.00
Ive not seen any document in support of this.
Mr A says that this relates to the cost of an extended warranty - and he states hes been 
charged without his knowledge  or approval  having been told it would be provided free of 
charge.
As the business  has not provided  any evidence to contradict this Im entitled to accept Mr As 
testimony about this aspect. And I can see he promptly raised the issue on 19 April 2018 
after he saw a copy of the paperwork and sought  financial  advice. Its my understanding  the 
vehicle has a three year manufacturing warranty so its not obvious what  benefit would 
accrue by making  a payment  for an item which would  not be of any use until after that period 
had expired. And only then if he decided to keep  the vehicle for the entire  period  of the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN36190083I think its inherently more likely  that he would correctly recall if hed separately purchased 
this product. Its easy to envisage the fine details of a finance agreement being  overlooked  
within the several pages of the terms and conditions.  But this item is a stand-alone item 
which has to be purchased separately. So I think its probable Mr A would remember if hed 
agreed to this. I think its likely that Mr A was told his £2,700 would be used entirely as a 
deposit. As that did not happen I think there  was a misrepresentation in this respect.
Where theres been a misrepresentation  our usual approach  is to try and put the consumer 
back to the position theyd  have  been in if there hadnt been  a misrepresentation - not the 
position theyd  have been in had the (mis) representation been true. I think  it unlikely that Mr 
A would have purchased the extended warranty if hed been  told it would cost £1,298  - but 
would have gone ahead with the rest of the deal.
As Inchcape  is only the broker of this agreement  I cant ask it to amend the agreement by 
adding this sum to the deposit.  So I think it should  be refunded to Mr A. He can choose how 
he wishes to use it - and that includes making a partial early  repayment on the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  in part.
I require Inchcape Retail Limited to refund £1,298  to Mr A together with simple interest at the 
rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3619008