K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a credit card. Miss W says HSBC  UK Bank PLC, First Direct at the time, mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss W says it wasnt clear the PPI was optional. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
think HSBC made it clear that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this having seen a 
copy of Miss Ws credit  card application form. This was sent to Miss W after a telephone call 
with HSBC to apply for her credit card and it includes a section for PPI where there  is both a 
yes and no option for PPI. There is a tick in the yes box for PPI and Miss W has signed  at 
the bottom   so I think this reflected what she wanted at the time.  
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss W so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss W got the information she needed  to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. 
Miss W says she didnt  need the policy because she had a generous amount of sick pay 
from her employer at the time. Upon a successful  claim  the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months and in addition to Miss Ws sick pay. So these funds couldve been used for other 
expenses. And Miss W told us that her sick pay reduced to half after the initial  six months, so 
I think the PPI wouldve  been especially useful if she was out of work for more  than six 
months.
my decision  
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June  2019. 
Ref: DRN37913492Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3791349