K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a point of sale loan taken out in his name with etika  Finance UK Limited  
(EFL) ought to be cancelled. He also complains that any reference to the loan ought  to be 
removed from his credit file.
background 
Mr S initially  suggested  that he had not taken out the loan. The loan was taken out to provide 
both goods and services provided by a supplier  who was a limited  company that I will call 
N. Later,  Mr S suggested he had taken  out the loan but did not receive  the services. Mr S 
also complained  about EFL seeking to recover the debt from him. In addition, he wanted 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  He also told us, unknown  to him at the time, 
he had been charged for being  given  financial  advice.
EFL said Mr S entered into a loan agreement with it in December 2018. In summary, it said 
as part of the application process it both spoke to and emailed  Mr S.  Further, at first EFL 
indicated that Mr S had received all of the goods  and services.  But later when  the complaint 
was with us it changed  its stance and said Mr S had received all of the goods but not the 
services he had used  the loan to pay for. It also took on board that N had gone out of 
business before it could  deliver the services. 
For all of these reasons it offered Mr S a part refund  for the portion of the loan that related to 
the services he had not had. But it didnt agree there  were  any proper grounds for cancelling  
the loan altogether. It confirmed it would expect Mr S to make his repayments towards the 
remaining balance of the loan. It also offered an alternative redress. It found  a supplier who 
in its opinion, could  deliver the services. It offered all of this because  of the rights it thought 
Mr S was entitled to rely on in relation to the loan, under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
Mr S was dissatisfied and came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He was satisfied that Section  75 was relevant 
law in relation to this complaint. He noted that one of the effects  of Section 75 was that it 
allowed Mr S to seek a remedy against EFL where there had been a breach of contract  by 
the supplier. The contract  between Mr S and EFL had only been performed in part. N is no 
longer in business and cant perform the rest of the contract. On this basis  our investigator 
agreed that there had been a breach  of contract  which it was fair and reasonable to ask EFL 
to put right.
Further, our investigator thought that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 was also relevant law.  
It says that in such circumstances a consumer has a right to repeat performance or a price 
reduction. Given the nature of the services  our investigator did not agree that the alternative 
supplier could be said to be offering a like for like service. In other words, Mr S was not 
being offered  a repeat performance. Given this our investigator thought  the fair and 
reasonable remedy was a price reduction.
Next, our investigator looked at how to fairly and reasonably calculate the price reduction.  
He noted there were  37 elements to the contract. He also noted there was no perfect 
formula for working out how to compensate Mr S for the elements of the contract  hed not 
had. 
Ref: DRN39555312However, in the absence  of information about the specific cost of each element, he decided 
to give each element  of the contract  an equal  value. Our investigator  thought  it likely that Mr 
S had already received  7 elements of the contract.  Meaning he ought  to get a price  reduction  
in relation to the 30 remaining parts of the contract  that he had not had the benefit of. It 
appeared that EFL had already done  this calculation and had offered Mr S the same  refund 
as our investigator thought was fair and reasonable. On this basis our investigator didnt 
agree that EFL had to do anything further in relation to this part of the complaint.
Our investigator also said that EFL had to remove any adverse information that it had asked 
to be registered  on Mr Ss credit file after the point the supplier ceased trading. 
That said,  our investigator  didnt agree that EFL had behaved  in such a way that an award 
for distress and inconvenience  was fair and reasonable. Moreover, he pointed  out that EFL 
wasnt obliged to stop asking for repayment  in the circumstances. He did not agree that it 
seemed likely that Mr S had been charged for the provision of financial advice.
EFL agreed with the conclusions reached  by our investigator, Mr S did not. In short,  he 
suggested the proposed redress didnt go far enough. Also, he repeated his earlier stance  
and mentioned that he thought there had been a fraudulent business relationship between 
EFL and the supplier.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr S paid for goods  and services using a point of sale loan provided  by EFL. He is asking it 
to help him based on the rights he and it agree  he has under Section 75.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a breach of contract,  then he has a like claim against the credit  provider.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ss complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
Ref: DRN39555313example, a court might reach if Mr S pursued a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative  to the courts.
Mr S is also relying on the rights  he has as a consumer under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 where there has been part performance of a contract.
All of these points that I outline  above,  have already been discussed in great detail earlier in 
the complaint.  The parties seem to agree on them. That being  so, I dont think there is much 
to be gained by repeating  it all again  in similar detail.  There  also seems to be agreement 
between Mr S and EFL that there  has been  a breach of contract. Where  there  seems  to be a 
disagreement is about what to do to put things right. Mr S has rejected the offer of the 
alternative supplier and I think that is fair and reasonable  as it does not appear as if he is 
being offered  a like for like replacement. 
Mr S suggests that the redress on the table  is not enough. He points out that there is more 
than one invoice  provided by N and they dont all say the same thing. He seems to be 
unhappy about how we have come  to a conclusion about what he should be refunded for. 
Mr S is correct  when he suggests the picture  is not entirely clear as to what he paid for each 
of the 37 elements of the contact. That said, there  is at least  some  consistency in that the 
invoices suggest  that the supplier was meant to supply him with 37 separate items  which  
consisted of goods and services. It also appears that the total price was £4,500.
In the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable to give equal  value to each of the items 
that is £4,500/37 = £121.62 per item.
From the information I have seen, it seems Mr S has received 7 out of the 37 items. 
Therefore, I think there should be a price reduction and he should  only be asked to pay for 
the 7 items he did receive 7 x £121.62 = £851.35.  
I take on board Mr S has sent information  to show he paid a deposit  of £500 so I think it is 
fair and reasonable that this £500  should  be taken off what he owes.  This will mean he owes  
EFL £351.35 only. I am not aware  that Mr S has made any repayments towards  the loan. 
But if he has, these  should also be taken off the £351.35.
Mr S talks about the information that he tells us EFL has asked to be registered on his credit  
file. But I have not seen his credit  file information. He indicates that EFL was wrong to 
register this information.  However, financial businesses have to report accurate information 
to the credit  reference  agencies. I dont think it was inappropriate in the first instance for EFL 
to register details about the loan and the repayment  history which  is what  it appears to have 
done. 
That said,  given the findings I have made above, I think  it is fair and reasonable that EFL 
should ask the credit reference agencies to remove  any adverse information it asked the 
credit reference agencies to register about the loan for £4,500 after the point at which the 
supplier ceased  trading.  But, Mr S does owe EFL £351.35 and nothing I have said here 
prevents EFL from pursuing  him for this or noting this with the credit  reference agencies..
I see Mr S would like an award for distress  and inconvenience. But EFL has merely pursued 
him for a debt that was contractually owed. Nothing in the way it went  about it, or the tone or 
content of communications appears  to me to be inappropriate. It follows,  I dont find I have 
any proper basis for asking EFL to pay Mr S for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN39555314Mr S tells us he was charged  for the provision of financial advice. But I dont find this 
persuasive. I say this because the amount of the loan was for the exact amount needed to 
pay for the goods  and services he contracted for. I am not satisfied he was also charged for 
financial advice as well.
Mr S suggests that there was fraud in the relationship between  EFL and the N. I have no 
power to look into criminal  matters  and fraud is a criminal matter.  
my final decision
My final decision is that etika Finance UK Limited  can only pursue Mr S for £351.35  and 
must remove any adverse  information  it registered on his credit file from the point N ceased 
trading.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3955531