K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. He tried twice  to make a 
large payment to his Halifax mortgage,  but the payment didnt go through.
Both Halifax and Mr Ss sending bank  are blaming each other. Mr S wants an explanation for 
what happened, and compensation. 
This final decision relates to Halifax. Mr Ss complaint about the other bank has been  dealt  
with separately.
background
Mr Ss Halifax mortgage was in arrears.  On 27 February 2019,  he rang Halifax  to make a 
debit card payment  for £7,795.48 to pay off his arrears.  But the payment was declined.  
Halifaxs phone adviser told Mr S to ring his bank, as it was a large sum of money and his 
bank might have a maximum amount he was allowed  to pay by card.  Mr S asked the adviser  
to try to take the payment again.
Halifaxs adviser warned  Mr S that if the payment failed  a second time, he wouldnt be able 
to try again that day. Mr S said he wanted the adviser to try again, and he said if it failed, he 
wouldnt be paying his arrears.
Unfortunately, the second attempt to make  the payment was turned down too. Halifaxs  
adviser told Mr S hed need to contact his bank,  because his bank would have to unblock  the 
payment.
Mr S spoke to his bank.  He told Halifax that his bank  said it had authorised and approved  
both transactions,  meaning that around  £15,600  was no longer available for him to use. 
Mr Ss bank  told him that it was Halifaxs fault, because Halifax  hadnt claimed the payments.
So Mr S rang Halifax again to complain.  He said he wanted his money back  straightaway,  
and wasnt happy  when Halifax initially told him it would ring him back within 48 hours. He 
said that would be ok for his complaint, but he badly needed the funds back.
Mr S said the money reappeared in his bank account in a week.  He complained to both 
banks.
Halifaxs response said that it hadnt  received the attempted  payments. It said that if it had 
been received,  its phone adviser would have given Mr S a reference  number.  So it said it 
wasnt Halifaxs fault.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. 
He also moved the money to a different account with his bank, and tried again to make the 
payment on 13 March. It was declined  again.  
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said she could see that hed made  a lot 
of calls to Halifax to try to get the payment through. But she could see from the notes that 
Halifax had tried to find out what had happened. It had checked with its payments 
department, and mortgage servicing  departments, whod said no money had been received. 
Ref: DRN39268812The investigator also said that Halifax couldnt  transfer Mr Ss money back to him on 
27 February, because it hadnt had it. She asked Halifax for more information,  and it said 
that the payment had been  stopped  by Mr Ss bank, and wasnt something Halifax  could  
control. Halifax said that its payment processes had a maximum of £99,999.99 for a 
payment, but Mr Ss bank might have  had a lower maximum limit.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied, because both banks had said it wasnt their fault.  He pointed out that 
they couldnt both be faultless.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand why Mr S is frustrated. Hes been told by both the sending  and receiving 
bank that they werent at fault. He feels that one of them must be wrong because the 
transactions didnt  go through.
So I also asked both the sending and receiving  banks  for more detailed  information about 
what had happened. I requested all relevant information about the failed card transactions,  
including audit material and full details of the attempted  transactions. The banks  sent me the 
computer payment system report about the transactions. Also, Halifax  told me that Mr S had 
made his payment a different way on 28 March, and was no longer in arrears. 
I have looked  carefully  at the report which was provided. Mr Ss unsuccessful  transactions  
are shown on this report. The way the system works  is that the receiving bank requests the 
money, and then the sending bank authorises  it (or not). The report shows the code  A 
against the transactions. This indicates that the sending bank accepted  and authorised 
them. By doing so, the sending bank accepted that the request  had been  done in a valid 
way, and that there were the funds  available in Mr Ss account.  What  should have happened 
next was that the system  should have sent an electronic message to Halifax,  saying yes the 
money was available. But instead,  what happened was that the message received by Halifax 
was that the transactions  had been  declined. 
This complaint is against Halifax, so what I have to do is determine whether or not Halifax  
was responsible for what went wrong. The report Ive mentioned shows  that Halifax wasnt  
responsible. The sending bank wouldnt have authorised the payment if Halifax hadnt  
properly requested the money. 
I fully appreciate its frustrating for Mr S that I cant see where  the fault lay, other than that it 
wasnt with Halifax. The trouble is that the payment services system has many layers, with 
other payment services organisations involved in between, as well as the banks at each end 
of a transaction.. 
  
So Im sorry, but I can only say that the reason Mr Ss payments didnt go through was not 
because of a fault by Halifax.
Ref: DRN39268813my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926881