K821x#15complaint
Mrs Fs complaint concerns the whole  of life policy sold to her by Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in 1995 . She says she wasnt told it was reviewable and therefore  wasnt told the 
sum assured could  change.
Mrs F has been  represented throughout this complaint.  All references to Mrs F will include 
comments provided by her representative.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  replied to my provisional  decision.
Mrs F accepted my provisional findings  and the suggested redress.
Aviva disagreed. It said that it agreed  to pay £100  for the inconvenience  caused to Mrs F for 
not carrying out the reviews on time.  But it considered from the sales  documents that life and 
critical illness cover was important to Mrs F. The fact that Mrs F hadnt cancelled  her policy  
since she made the complaint shows this cover was still important to her. And because the 
cover was important to her, Aviva says that if she had cancelled  the policy in 2010,  she 
wouldve taken some replacement cover that she would still have been paying  for. So 
overall, Aviva didnt think a refund of the premiums from 2010  onwards was fair. Aviva  noted 
that as Mrs Fs policy covers critical illness as well as life cover, she will lose both if she 
decides to cancel her policy.
Finally, Aviva said that Mrs F was sent a letter following  its rectification  exercise in 2015, but 
it says this letter didnt  give her the options available to her. Aviva  undertook  to provide a 
copy of this letter but to date has not done  so.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive reached the same conclusions  
as those set out in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.  Ill explain why Avivas 
further response to my provisional decision hasnt changed my mind. I set out my thoughts in 
response to Avivas further  comments in an email dated 22 July 2019. Aviva hasnt 
submitted any further comments.
I note Mrs F says she doesnt think she received the rectification letter from Aviva.  And to 
date, as Ive noted  above,  Aviva hasnt provided  a copy  of this letter to our service.  In any 
event, as Aviva said, the letter didnt give Mrs F any options including  the option to cash-in 
her policy from 2010 onwards. So even if the letter had been sent, I dont think  Mrs F 
wouldve taken any action.
Mrs F told this service  the reason she didnt cancel the policy after she raised her complaint 
was because she was concerned that if she did so, this might affect the validity  of her 
dispute with Aviva. Whilst I consider  it wouldnt have, I think  given Mrs F had an ongoing 
complaint with Aviva and she misunderstood how a cancellation might impact on the dispute, 
Ref: DRN30037032I think this offers a reasonable explanation as to why she continued  with the policy even after 
she brought her complaint to our service.
I take Avivas point that the policy was important  to Mrs F  otherwise she wouldnt have 
taken out the cover.  But the most  important aspect of the policy was the life cover  as this 
provided protection for her husband in the event of her death.
I appreciate Aviva wants to highlight  the policy covers critical illness  as well as life cover.  
These are facts that have been  drawn to Mrs Fs attention.
So whilst Ive taken on board what Aviva has said, for the reasons Ive set out above and in 
my provisional decision attached below, Im still of the view that Mrs Fs complaint should be 
partially upheld.  I feel a refund of the premiums from 2010  onwards, as well as 8% simple 
interest to compensate  her for the time she hasnt had the benefit of this sum, is fair. And as 
set out in my provisional decision, Ill also award a payment  of £100 for the inconvenience 
this has caused  Mrs F.
my final decision
Im partially upholding the complaint. I order Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mrs F:
Refund all the premiums paid since the review date that was due to take place in 
2010 plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date each premium was paid to the 
date of settlement;
Pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
If Aviva considers it is legally obliged  to deduct  income tax from the interest, it must make 
the appropriate payment to HM Revenue  and Customs and send a tax deduction certificate  
to Mrs F with the compensation payment. She can then reclaim any overpaid tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30037033 
copy provisional decision
complaint
Mrs Fs complaint concerns the whole of life policy sold to her by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited in 
1995. She says she wasnt told it was reviewable and therefore  wasnt told the sum assured could 
change. 
background
In early 1995, Mrs Fs husband arranged two similar  whole of life policies, one for himself and one for 
her. This decision deals only with Mrs Fs policy.
Mrs Fs policy was reviewed  by Aviva in 2005 and passed meaning there  wasnt a change  to the sum 
assured (cover) or the monthly  premiums. Aviva failed to carry out the policy reviews due to take 
place in 2010  and 2015.  The next review was carried out in 2018 when Mrs F reached the age of 70. 
At this point the policy failed  the review. Mrs F was advised shed need  to increase  her monthly 
premiums from £17.85 to £63.96 to continue with the same sum assured of £10,477. Alternatively she 
could reduce  the sum assured to a minimum  level of £4,455 whilst maintain the same monthly  
premiums of £17.85.
After Mrs Fs husband  complained to Aviva  about his own policy, Aviva provided a response to Mrs F 
at the same time. Aviva said the reviews and their possible impact were clearly explained to Mrs F at 
the time of sale by its financial advisor. It said she was provided with an illustration of how the policy 
would work, a policy brochure and a recommendation  letter. So Aviva didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Initially our investigator upheld  Mrs Fs complaint. Our investigator noted she didnt  have evidence  
that Aviva had carried out any reviews. Further, she considered if Aviva had done so Mrs F wouldve 
cancelled her policy.  In response,  Aviva  sent further information  providing a letter from 2005 which  
showed the outcome of the review which it said had passed.  It also provided details of a rectification  
programme it carried out for all customers affected  by missed  reviews. The options relating to Mrs Fs 
policy were  as follows:
option  1  premium  increase from £17.85 to £33.64 (2010 review) followed by a premium 
increase of £43.49 (2015 review). Cover  maintained at £10,477
option  2  sum assured (SA)  reduction from £10,477  to £6,450 (2010  review)  followed by a 
SA reduction to £4,455 (2015 review). Premium remains £17.85
option  3  premium  increase from £17.85 to £33.64 (2010 review) followed by a SA reduction 
from £10,477 to of £8,239  (2015  review) 
option  4  SA reduction from £10,477  to £6,450 (2010 review) followed by a premium  
increase from £17.85 to £27.63 (2015 review)
Because Mrs F hadnt received the reviews at the correct time, Aviva said that under its rectification 
programme it had paid the amount needed to keep the sum assured  the same  following review dates  
of 2010 and 2015, which it had missed. Aviva  said this was the most  favourable  outcome for Mrs F 
and was paid for at its own expense.
 
Based on the new information our investigator issued a further  view. She considered  the option 
chosen by Aviva was fair so didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. But Mrs F disagreed for the following 
reasons:
Aviva had broken  the terms  of the policy by missing  the reviews
she hasnt received any documents about the rectification programme 
Aviva have totally mis-managed her policy
she wants  a refund of all the premiums paid from the beginning of the policy
Ref: DRN30037034So the matter was passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to partially  uphold her complaint.  
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Mrs Fs representative has raised  a number of points 
during contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point thats been raised, Ive 
considered everything  thats been said but limited  my findings to the areas  which  impact on the 
outcome of Mrs Fs case.
was the policy mis-sold
I can see Mrs F took out a reviewable whole of life policy with a guaranteed death benefit. These 
policies are designed to pay out a lump  sum on death,  whenever it occurs. The amount of cover and 
premiums are based on assumptions about a number of different factors, including  the future  cost of 
life cover and investment performance,  which  cant have been known at the start. Simply, each  
monthly premium  paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost of 
cover in that month. Any remainder is invested  into a fund or funds.
The cost of the life cover is not fixed and actually  increases with age  this is known as the mortality 
charge. I know Mrs F says she wasnt  told about the mortality charge but this is a usual  part of the 
costs of any life cover. But the hope is that the investment  element will grow  sufficiently to fund the 
shortfall when  the policy reaches the point the cost of cover  is greater than the monthly  premium.  
Mrs Fs policy was due to be reviewed regularly to check how it was performing against the original 
assumptions and so that fresh assumptions about the future had all been taken into account. Once 
these calculations were  complete this wouldve allowed Aviva to determine whether the policy had 
passed the review, usually meaning no changes to cover or premiums are required. Or failed,  
usually meaning the policyholder is offered the choice of either paying a higher premium to maintain 
the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same premium.
Looking at the overall suitability  of the policy, Im satisfied Mrs F had a need  for protection when she 
took out the policy.  Both she and her husband took out similar policies at the same time, with each 
due to receive the death  benefit  from the others policy. Its also worth noting that the financial review  
document which recorded Mrs Fs personal and financial  details, only records a limited amount of 
information. Mrs F opted not to provide  detailed information about  her personal  and financial situation.  
So from the limited information Mrs F chose to provide and what  she required  the protection  for - to 
protect her husband  in the event  of her death  - Im satisfied the policy  was suitable for her needs.
Mrs F said she thought the amount of benefit  was guaranteed for life. And of course it was, subject to 
potential changes in the level of premium  payable. But I see the information about  the policy, 
including the reviewable nature of the policy and potential risk of the premiums increasing over time, 
were contained in the notes  written up by the Aviva financial adviser about what he was 
recommending and why. Mrs F signed this document to acknowledge its contents. As well as a record 
of the conversation with the Aviva financial  advisor from the time of sale, I can see the nature of the 
policy  that it was subject to regular reviews  was clearly set out in other policy documents such  as 
the key fact document.
In light of these documents, I think its more  likely than not that the reviewable  nature of the policy was 
explained to Mrs F. And overall,  Im satisfied the policy  was suitable  for her needs  at the time of sale.
reviews
Aviva has sent our service  copy of the review  letter sent to Mrs F in 2005. Mrs F cant  remember 
receiving this. But I can see its correctly addressed and in the absence  of any reported postal 
Ref: DRN30037035problems from that time, I think its more likely than not, it was delivered to her address. And perhaps,  
due to the passage  of time,  she cant remember receiving it.
But I can see there  is no dispute the reviews were not carried out in 2010 and 2015 when they 
shouldve been. Aviva carried  out a rectification exercise  for the years  the reviews  werent carried out 
because a number of customers were affected by this. So Ill consider whether  what  theyve offered to 
Mrs F is fair in her particular circumstances. 
The options  considered by Aviva as part of the rectification programme are set out above. And I can 
see Aviva  decided  that option 1 was the most favourable  for Mrs F. This meant it increased the 
premiums at its own cost so the cover could  remain  the same. And therefore  Mrs F received the 
benefit of the cover at the same premium up until 2018.
But I note Aviva  didnt communicate the options to Mrs F. Aviva said this was because  it was looking 
at a large number of policies and decided  that rather than making customers make an immediate 
decision at a point between their contractual review dates, it would choose the best option for them. 
And it seems  the first time Mrs F became  aware of the rectification programme  was some time after 
her representative contacted our service  as it wasnt mentioned in the final response letter  sent to her 
by Aviva about her complaint. 
When something goes wrong, as it did here, we expect a business to make sure its customers  arent 
disadvantaged. So I think  it was fair that when Aviva  carried out its rectification exercise it made  Mrs F 
an offer. But I also think it wouldve been fair to communicate this to her.
Im mindful that Mrs F has, by virtue of the rectification  process funded by Aviva, received the benefit 
of the continuing life cover, along with the surrender value  which may have been  enhanced by Aviva  
effectively paying those premiums on her behalf. But at the same time,  I consider she lost the 
opportunity to cash in her policy. This option was open  to her in the last failed  review letter from 
2018. Given the options  (1 to 4) were designed to put her in the positon she wouldve been in if things 
had happened as they shouldve, I think she may have cancelled the policy once shed seen the 
sums, and in particular, the increased premium needed to maintain the life cover.  And if she did, this 
wouldve meant  that shed have nothing further to pay and also had the benefit of the policy  premiums 
since that time. If Mrs F does choose to cash in the policy, Im going to ask Aviva to repay  her 
premiums from 2010  onwards as well as 8% simple interest to compensate her for the time she hasnt 
had the benefit of this sum.
Alternatively, if Mrs F chooses to continue with the policy, there is no current  (financial) loss to her  
as Ive said above, she has benefited from paying lower premiums for the same life cover as a result 
of the rectification exercise undertaken  by Aviva.  If Mrs F does  continue with the policy, shell now 
need to either  pay the higher premiums to maintain the life cover, or continue  to pay the same 
premiums for the reduced level of cover.
Finally, for the poor communication issues Mrs F has experienced, in my final decision Im intending 
to ask Aviva to pay her £100  for the inconvenience this has caused.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mrs Fs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  in part and award  
her compensation  as set out above.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3003703