K822xcomplaint
Ms S mainly says as follows:
An unsolicited call from, and misrepresentation by, ADM Investor Services  
International Limited (ADM), conveyed  a need  to change  hedging arrangements  in 
her trading account in order to avoid a margin call; 
the changes  were made; 
it then became clear  that they were  not required and had increased the risk of a 
margin call and loss in her account; 
they would not have  been made, but for the misrepresentation; 
and they then led to a margin  call (and financial loss) in the account  that could not be 
mitigated  but would  have been avoided altogether by the hedging arrangements. 
background 
On 11 March 2021 I issued a detailed  Provisional Decision (PD) in this complaint. A copy of 
the PD is attached further below. All abbreviations and dates in the PD apply to the present 
decision.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the PD. ADM said as follows: 
1. Thank you for forwarding to us on 11 February 2021 the Ombudsmans Provisional
Decision. This letter  sets out the response  of ADM Investor Services International Limited
(ADMISI) to that Provisional Decision.  ADMISI  is disappointed with the Provisional
Decision. However, we are grateful for the time that the Financial Ombudsman Service  has
taken over this complaint.
2. The Ombudsman  has provisionally decided that [Ms S] total amount of
negative liquidation value and funds due to ADMISI  should be as at 21:06 on 5 February
2018 and not the total amount of negative  liquidation value and funds due to ADMISI at
15:35 on 6 February  2018 when [Ms S] positions  were  closed  out. The relevant
figures are as follows:-
 at 21:06 on 5 February 2018 the total amount of negative liquidation value and funds
due to ADMISI was 5,210,43;
 at 15:35 on 6 February 2018 the total amount of negative liquidation value and funds
due to ADMISI was 87,187.01.
3. [Ms S] has paid no money to ADMISI since 6 February 2018 and therefore the
effect of the Provisional Decision  is that [Ms S] owes ADMISI 5,210.43.
Ms S mainly submitted the following:
A brief covering letter   to accompany her main submissions on the PD  which 
summarises that she has invited me to reconsider the redress  set out in the PD, to 
consider awarding  redress that puts her account back to its state  on 2 February 2018 
[as opposed to the PDs reference  to compensation for loss incurred  between  21:06 
on 5 February and 15:35 on 6 February  2018]  and to do this on the basis  of new 
evidence and trading simulations detailed in the main submissions.
Ref: DRN34121092Very detailed main  submissions on the PD. It would not be practicable to reflect all 
the details in this document, so summarising its main contents will suffice. A 
background section recaps  on the background of the case  and asserts  her belief, 
with reasons, that ADM intentionally misled her and the Rep with regards to what  
happened on 5 February (as opposed to their previous belief of a system failure).  A 
section summarises two examples of previous events in which ADM committed  
manual errors that affected  the Reps trading, but redressed  them  both. A section 
addresses the matter  of margin  in the complaint, it disputes, with reasons, ADMs 
position on the matter and it affirms, with reasons, that their original hedging strategy 
was correct, would have worked in avoiding a margin call and would have worked  in 
yielding a substantial  net profit for the account.  A compensation  section presents 
detailed grounds  on which I have been invited  to review the compensation due to   
Ms S; it refers  to the strict  and disciplined principles, parameters  and models upon 
which the experienced Reps  managed trading in the lead account  (and therefore  all 
linked accounts,  including  hers); it says key to the trading strategy and modelling  
assumptions, and relevant to the events on 5 and 6 February, is the market low (for 
the index) level of 2530 (formulated on the basis of the 252 moving day average) 
from which, if reached in the indexs price fall, the Reps expected  (on a high 
probability) the index  to strongly rebound upwards; it refers  to key account figures  
(for both the Futures and Options trades) between 2 and 6 February  and it presents, 
in detail, four potential  trading  scenarios that could (or would) have followed on the 
basis of the key account figures, in the context of ADM  not intervening with 
misinformation on 5 February and in the context of ADM intervening  on 5 February 
but with accurate account information  and analysis;  this section essentially concludes 
that  
It is almost  certain  that had [ADM] supplied the correct analysis, which  is what  
should have done, then my account  would have  bene hedged somewhere in line with 
Scenarios 2 to 4. It is impossible to be precise as to the exact constitution of my 
hedge, and this is why I have provided  different simulations. What these clearly show 
is that using any of the Scenarios, it was a comparatively simple  task to return  my 
account to £81,495.
; the above was asserted broadly on the point  made  about the 2530  market low level 
and the strategy  associated with that and, in simplified terms, the submission  was 
that the strategy should (or would) have succeeded, on 6 February,  in hedging and 
protecting the Options positions,  in avoiding a margin breach and that because the 
expected rebound would have made the hedges redundant gains from the Futures 
positions would have been  liquidated; overall, this section says account  net profit of 
between £141,000 and £300,000 could (or would) have been achieved  in the four 
scenarios; and that, at least, the account would  have  been restored to the balance of 
£81,495 (as it was on 2 February and as was the minimum  the Rep sought to 
achieve); there is an events section which recaps  on the conversations between  the 
Rep and ADM, between  21:44 on 5 February  and 14:34 on 6 February;  and then 
there is a conclusion section that summarises her positions on the issues within  the 
case. This document is also supported by detailed appendices  relevant  to the 
sections.
A brief letter which, in the main, explains that on 5 February  whilst  she and the Rep 
were aware of and had access to the relevant Futures prices they had no such 
awareness of or access to the relevant Options prices; they relied on ADM for the 
latter; they would therefore have been  aware  of the gains to be made on the hedging 
Ref: DRN34121093Futures positions by the time the index reached their calculation  of the market low 
level on the following  day (6 February) from which they expected prices to rebound;  it 
would have been logical for those positions  to have been liquidated at that point (for 
the relevant gains to be taken and released  into her account  with positive effects on 
account equity  and margin) because the rebound would have meant an improvement 
in the Options prices,  which would have  created capacity  to liquidate the hedging 
Futures; and there is evidence from 5 Feb of the Reps intention  to do this on 6 Feb 
because a telephone call transcript (of the Reps telephone conversation with ADM 
on 5 Feb) says so.
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to revise  the findings  and conclusions presented in the PD. I incorporate those 
findings and conclusions into the present decision.
With regards to ADMs comment on the PD, it should be noted that the PDs main finding on 
redress was  
Overall,  I am inclined to consider that the total and crystalized loss Ms S incurred between 
21:06 on 5 February  and 15:35 on 6 February  is what she fairly deserves to be compensated 
for.
I note that ADM has interpreted the above  in the terms  of Ms S account negative  balance 
(which ADM says is due to it) but, for the sake of clarity,  my finding  was as quoted above  
and my finding on redress in this decision  is as stated below. I have addressed  Ms S 
complaint about  ADM and the loss she incurred, not ADMs claim for recovery  against Ms S. 
My remit  is limited  to determining whether (or not) her complaint is upheld and, if upheld,  
what fair compensation to her will be. I make  no finding on ADMs  claim, as I do not consider 
that I have  the remit within this complaint  to do so.
Ms S and her Rep must be commended for the time,  effort  and competence they have 
clearly invested in the submissions and documentation presented  to us in response to the 
PD. I consider that I have  summarised their key points and arguments above,  and I assure 
them that I have  read their submissions and documents  in detail.
Nevertheless, I am not satisfied that a safe decision can be made to define redress by the 
state of the account on 2 February  and/or by the scenarios that have been presented.  
Despite the complexities of the matter, my reasons are relatively simple:
I consider that ADMs wrongdoing happened during the call of 21:06  on 5 February.  
This is featured  within  the complaint itself and it is supported by the facts and by 
evidence. Defining redress by the state of the account on 2 February would be 
arguably artificial and unnecessarily so, given available fact and evidence that ADMs 
wrongdoing happened on 5 February. It would be contrary  to this services approach  
to hold ADM responsible for events prior to when it did wrong or for compensation 
based on such events.
The scenarios  presented  by Ms S are fully understood. They hold logic and are 
arguable. However, my task is to determine matters on the balance of probabilities, 
not on the basis of potential  and/or possibilities. The absence of probability within  
Ref: DRN34121094what Ms S has presented appears to be indicated by the existence of four different 
scenarios and her assertion, as quoted  above,  that but for ADMs intervention and 
misinformation on 5 February her account would have ended up  somewhere in 
line with Scenarios  2 to 4 on 6 February.  No single scenario appears to be probable, 
so even if I were to consider it safe to define  redress beyond the state of the account 
at 21:06 on 5 February  which, for the reasons given in the PD and below, I do not  
there would remain  the task of determining which of scenarios one to four (or two to 
four, as highlighted  by Ms S) applies;  and, I repeat, no single scenario appear to be 
probable or has been presented as most probable.  I appreciate that Ms S would 
argue that one outcome,  at the least,  was probable  that is, returning her account  to 
the balance of £81,495  but this too is based on any or all of the four possible 
scenarios.
I do not doubt the strict and disciplined overall strategy usually followed by the Reps, 
I do not doubt the parameters and modelling  that Ms S has explained,  I do not doubt 
the Reps experience (overall  and in such matters) and it is possible that, but for 
ADMs wrongdoing, any of the four scenarios might have  existed. However, like 
every other participant in the markets  neither  the Reps  nor Ms S could accurately 
foresee the markets  at the time and no matter  how disciplined, in principle,  their 
strategy was I do not consider that I can safely conclude  they would have behaved in 
a firm, unyielding  and specific way if the index  price fell and in a firm, unyielding and 
specific way if the index price rose. In other words, I cannot safely conclude that any 
of the four scenarios  was probable. 
Market events are unpredictable  and such events can prompt adjustments to even 
strict strategies.  An example can be illustrated in terms of management of the 
Futures hedges. Their  primary  purpose was to hedge the Options positions. I 
appreciate that they also presented the opportunity  for separate  profit, but it is not 
inconceivable that instead of liquidating  at the specific  (or around) the market low 
level that has been mentioned, the Rep might  have had a cautious  feeling  no 
matter how slight  about doing  so and, for that reason, might not have  liquidated 
them in the ways Ms S has described. Other assumptions that have been made in 
the modelling and scenarios she has presented might not have existed  as described, 
dependent on the Reps  reactions  at the time. Even  with the strict strategies that 
have been described,  it remains  the case that the Rep was not a trading robot,  he 
was an experienced trader  and his knowledge  and experience would have presented  
their own added  values to the trading  he managed. I cannot  safely draw  conclusions 
on how he would have  reacted  at the numerous relevant points overnight between 5 
and 6 February when  he was monitoring  the account(s) and whether (or not) he 
would have stuck  strictly to the strategy or conducted matters using the strategy  
alongside some  pragmatic decisions (which means outcomes would have been 
uncertain).
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that the only certainty in terms of detriment to Ms S  and 
in the absence of competing probabilities  is the balance of her account at the point ADM 
committed its wrongdoing at 21:06 on 5 February.  Thereafter, ADM was responsible for the 
negative effects  on that balance  until 15:35  on 6 February when the relevant positions were 
closed. 
fair compensation
Ref: DRN34121095My aim is to put Ms S as close as possible into the position she would be in had the 
misinformation from ADM not caused her losses. As I said in the PD  
A distinct difficulty in doing  this with precision is the fact that her account  was being actively  
traded by the Rep  so the Options trades  and the hedging arrangements  were under 
constant and active management too. I have noted  evidence about her (and the Reps) 
overarching strategy aimed at earning  returns through the collection of premiums for short 
Options trades that expire OTM. That is plausible, but what  remains unknown is precisely 
how the relevant  trades (both Options and Futures) would have continued on 6 February  or 
how they would eventually have concluded.  I also consider that any attempt to consider this 
or argue about this with the benefit  of hindsight would be unsafe,  because what  is important 
is what would have  happened at the time of the relevant events  when no such hindsight  
existed.
For the reasons  addressed earlier, I retain the same  view about unsafe attempts to consider 
the above. As such, I also retain the finding in the PD that  
 fair compensation for Ms S should  have a simpler basis  and should  be to reverse  what  
evidence confirms was the financial detriment directly caused by ADMs misinformation. That 
is captured between  the state  of the account  at the time of the first call between its official  
and the Rep on 5 February  2018  I understand this was at 21:06   and the state  of the 
account when  the positions were liquidated  at 15:35 on 6 February 2018.  I appreciate  that 
the negative state of the account was already in both parties awareness from the morning of 
6 February, however they share common ground  in terms of the mutual agreement they had 
to allow  time to attempt  mitigation. As the investigator said,  the Reps  confirmed, by 11:20, 
that this could not be done successfully and then the positions were  closed  at 15:35.
The total and crystalized loss Ms S incurred between  21:06 on 5 February  and 15:35  on 6 
February is what she fairly deserves to be compensated for. I have considered  and 
addressed, above,  her submissions on this and I have not been  persuaded that the 
alternatives she proposed  are safe conclusions for redress. In the absence of evidence  of 
what she probably lost, there  is factual  evidence to determine that the loss as described  
above is what she certainly incurred, so that is what she should be compensated for. I order 
ADM to calculate  Ms S loss according to the above  and to pay her the resulting  amount.
I also retain the following finding  in the PD  
In other cases, I could consider awarding interest  on compensation. I am not inclined to do 
so in Ms S case. Such awards usually aim to compensate for a complainants loss of 
interest that could have  been earned, perhaps in a savings context, if the compensation 
amount had been in hand from the time of the event to date. As I said above, Ms S account 
was under very active trading,  so a savings context  does  not apply and what  would have  
happened to the compensation amount on or after 6 February cannot safely be determined.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above (and in the PD), I uphold Ms S complaint. I order ADM Investor  
Services International Limited to pay her compensation as set out above and to provide her 
with a calculation  of the compensation in a clear and simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Ref: DRN34121096Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN34121097Copy of Provisional Decision dated  11 March 2021
complaint
Ms S mainly says as follows:
An unsolicited  call from, and misrepresentation  by, ADM Investor Services International 
Limited (ADM), conveyed a need to change hedging arrangements in her trading  account  in 
order to avoid a margin call; 
the changes were made; 
it then became clear  that they were not required and had increased  the risk of a margin  call 
and loss in her account; 
they would not have been  made, but for the misrepresentation; 
and they then led to a margin call (and financial loss) in the account  that could not be 
mitigated  but would have  been avoided  altogether by the hedging arrangements. 
background
The main events happened  over the course of 5 and 6 February 2018. They feature  Ms S execution-
only trading  account, her Options trades, her Futures trades (for hedging purposes)  and an 
arrangement in which  her account was part of group of accounts (all with ADM) structured  to be 
managed and traded by two representatives (who had power of attorney to do so)  the Reps  and 
structured to mirror/be linked to trading conducted by the Reps in a lead account  (also with ADM).
Ms S refers to an Options  trading strategy,  for the linked accounts, mainly based on short trading  and 
generating returns through the receipt of premiums  in the context of Options that have been sold 
which expire out of the money (OTM). She also refers to hedging, within  this strategy, broadly 
serving the purpose of mitigating through events  or volatility that affect the main Options  trades. She 
provided the following  chronology:
The account had short  Put Options based on the S&P500 index (the index)  on 5 February. In 
the evening of this date the index experienced falls, which meant the Options  began  to lose 
value. Around 18:00, the value  of the account was £78,000. Between 19:00 and 21:00  48 
short Futures trades in the index were made to hedge the exposure in the Options.  The index 
closed for the day at 21:00.
Shortly after 21:00  (on the same date) ADM called  one of the Reps and gave  notice that the 
account was over-hedged and that this needed to be addressed in order to avoid a margin  
call. He immediately reacted to this by closing half of the Futures position, thereby also 
reducing the hedge by half. A number of telephone calls, between  both, followed between  
21:00 and 22:00. Ms S says the Rep was uncomfortable with reducing the hedge and 
arranged four further calls to discuss and ensure that ADMs assessment  of and calculation 
behind the notice was accurate  because if not, Ms S says there was still opportunity to 
reinstate the hedge. In the first call both discussed and agreed that the loss in the Options  
had been fully hedged;  in the second, the Rep referred to his plan to oversee and manage the 
hedge overnight, based on the discussions he reduced the hedge further by closing 12 
futures contracts and ADM agreed  to update him on the state of the account; in the third,  
ADM gave information that equated to confirmation  of a £84,000 account  value, qualified by 
reference to information yet to be updated in the system, so ADM  promised a further update;  
ADM provided this in the fourth  call, it confirmed that all information was updated, confirmed 
information that equated to confirmation  of an account  value around £80,000 and said margin 
in the account  remained mainly on the Options. Ms S says this confirmation assured the Rep 
that ADMs initial notice was correct and that the initial hedge level did not have to be 
reinstated.
Early in the morning of 6 February account valuation was received,  which showed  that at the 
time ADM said the account balance  was positive [around] £80,000 it was actually  negative  
Ref: DRN34121098£5,210 (as of 21.30 on 5 February). The index had fallen since, so the accounts negative 
balance had increased by the time this valuation was received. 
Further discussions between the Rep and ADM ensued in the morning of 6 February, around 
which time the accounts  balance was negative [around] £100,000. Within  the conversations, 
ADM acknowledged  the discrepancy and suggested it might have been  caused by usage  
(during the discussions on 5 February) of a new untested system  that had not reflected  
settlement prices. 
Ms S complaint  rests  on the assertions  that the Rep was misled by ADM  to reduce  the hedging 
arrangement in order to reduce exposure to risk and risk of a margin call; in doing  so ADM  
misinformed the Rep on the basis of incorrect account valuation information; in the aftermath of 
events, it has become clear  that ADM misguided itself by basing its information and calculations on 
only a part of the account and not on the account (and all the trades within it) as a whole; to the 
contrary, reduction of the hedging arrangement increased  exposure to risk and increased risk of a 
margin call; but for the misinformation  from ADM the initial hedging  arrangements were  protecting the 
Options and the account;  telephone  recording evidence shows that, in addition, the Rep was in place  
to monitor the index and manage hedging for the account overnight.
ADM disputes the complaint  and, in the main, it says:
It is a full-service investment brokerage  firm and Ms S execution only account  was governed 
by the agreed Retail Client Agreement (RCA) and the Limited  Power of Attorney (LPA) she 
put in place for the Reps.  It must be noted that the Reps are very experienced investors   and 
were previously directors of a regulated investment  firm  who have used ADMs execution-
only accounts since  2003. The trading ideas, strategies and executed trades in Ms S account 
were all under the Reps control, control which  she delegated to them. In this context 
(including ADMs strict execution-only  and non-advisory service), as far as her complaint 
relates to the performance in her account,  losses in her account and the negative  balance she 
owes ADM liability for any redress  she seeks rests with the Reps,  not with ADM.
There was notable, significant  and extreme volatility  in the US markets between 5 and 6 
February, and there  is ample evidence  of this from information in the public domain  some 
have been shared by ADM with this service. It was the Reps choice to continue  trading  in 
those circumstances  during  those dates. 
The trading statements  generated by ADMISI (and not any screen-based valuations, real 
time or otherwise after the events) are the only and definitive means by which  the firm and 
clients can see, measure and assess the value of their daily trading positions and the 
corresponding margin requirements  due to us. The Client  Agreement is very clear on this 
point. The trading  statements are produced and usually  accessible only from 6 or 7 am 
London time on each business day, on the day following  a trade, to provide an accurate and 
objective snapshot of the previous days trading on an account   From this, it is obvious that 
any discussions between [the Rep] (on behalf  the Complainant) and [ADM] at any point 
earlier than 6 am could not benefit from the valuations  provided in the daily statements  as 
such discussions would  have preceded the issuance  of the relevant daily trading statements. 
Any such  discussions would have  drawn on speculative prices and imprecise market  prices. 
This occurred  out of hours (during the grey market), post- closing,  in a hard to value  thin 
options market.
It acknowledges that clients did not see any live pricing or margining information, that the 
Reps did not have access to its system (the system that features in the complaint) and that 
one of the Reps  was indeed engaged in discussions  with ADM about prices,  margins and the 
state of the account  over both dates. It must be noted that, contrary to Ms S assertion, the 
system in question was not a critical  part of its service, it was not a primary source  of 
information for ADM and instead it was an extra  tool used to value Options. It also accepts 
that ADM gave the Rep valuation information during their discussions but that did not amount  
Ref: DRN34121099to advice, that happened  firmly as defined in the RCA  whereby ADM expressly  disclaimed 
liability for the accuracy or completeness of such  information  and for any losses (other  than 
those due to its gross  negligence, deceit or fraud) arising  from such  information   and that 
must be viewed in the context  of the wider market conditions, beyond ADMs responsibility 
and control,  being the cause of Ms S losses. It also does not consider that she has proved 
that her loss resulted  directly  from the valuation information it provided.
Ms S and the Reps have not established that any distinct hedging strategy  was being 
followed and was frustrated by incorrect valuation  information it is alleged to have given on 5 
February. Even if those  aspects  have  been  established, it remains the case that they relied on 
any such  information at their own risks (as terms in the RCA confirm) and they have not 
explained why the Rep took the step of seeking that information when  neither Rep had done 
that over the majority of their previous and substantial dealings in ADM accounts. In addition, 
this service must be mindful that the hedging strategy would  have had the result of capping 
losses and Ms S Options position  was already in loss when the hedging arrangement  was 
put in place.  This had the effect  of capping  that loss and the effect of nullifying  any potential 
for gain in the overall trade, for as long as the Futures hedge  remained in place.
It disputes  all grounds on which Ms S says ADM is responsible for loss in her account; it 
disputes her claim  that it has been in breach of contract and/or negligent; it does  not accept 
that it has a contractual  or regulatory liability for the information given on 5 February; the 
relevant tests relate to gross negligence  and the foreseeability of its consequences; and it 
does not accept  that it has committed  gross  negligence in the matter or that the losses in Ms 
S account were foreseeable. 
One of our investigators considered the matter and reached  a mixed  conclusion. He found mainly as 
follows:
Strict interpretation of the relevant RCA  terms with regards to information  provided by ADM 
would mean  that it bears no responsibility for the accuracy of the information given in the 
complaint and no responsibility  for the loss claimed  as a result of that information. However, 
as the valuation information  was accessible  only by ADM and not by Ms S or the Rep  and 
there was no other  way for the Rep to get the information at the time  such a strict 
interpretation would not be fair. In these circumstances, and given the importance of the 
valuation information,  what  ADM conveyed to the Rep had to be fit for purpose and had to 
satisfy its regulatory obligation to provide  clear, fair and not misleading information. In 
addition, and in the circumstances, it also was not unreasonable  for the Rep to have relied on 
the information provided  by ADM.  The facts  of the case confirm that ADM misinformed the 
Rep about valuation of the account. It cannot  fairly avoid liability  for this and it is responsible 
for this.
However, evidence suggests that the account was at risk of a margin call, so ADM  was right 
to initiate  the telephone call and give notice about this; and evidence suggests that the 
account was over hedged by the Futures contracts so the excess in that respect was using 
margin and created  or would have created a separate risk of a margin  call. As such, 
irrespective of the misinformation  about  valuation of the account, it would  still have been 
necessary to reduce  the hedging arrangement for these reasons,  and in order  to avoid  
another margin call (or margin call threat).  
The RCA gave ADM the right to liquidate positions in the circumstances described above and 
it should  have done so in Ms S case earlier. Instead,  ADM allowed  the Rep additional  time, 
on 6 February, to try to mitigate losses in the account. This began  around 09:00  and by 11:20 
the Reps  confirmed  that the losses could  not be covered.  ADM should have applied  
liquidation at this point  to stem the loss and safeguard  Ms S best interests in this respect, but 
it did not do so until 15:35.  
Ref: DRN341210910Ms S complaint  should be partially  upheld  because of the misinformation from ADM  that the 
Rep relied upon, but compensation should be limited to restoring her account, as close as 
possible, to its state at 11:20 on 6 February, had liquidation been applied  at the time.
Ms S and the relevant Rep disputed the part of this outcome based on the premise that reduction of 
the hedging arrangement was/would have been inevitable. They made a number of detailed 
submissions and references to evidence to clarify  what they considered to be a misunderstanding of 
the hedging arrangement (and its effects);  to illustrate their view that the initial hedging arrangement 
had been accurately anticipated, calculated  and put in place; to support their argument that it would 
have remained in place  and provided  the protection intended,  but for ADMs misinformation; and to 
support their argument  that the arrangement and the account as a whole (and all the linked accounts) 
would have continued to be competently monitored and managed,  with the aid of their hedging 
strategy, overnight and throughout the extreme market volatility period. 
They also referred to additional evidence   derived from a judgment in an Employment  Tribunal  
hearing  about the ADM official that the Rep engaged with on 5 and 6 February, about his personal 
and professional circumstances at the time and about the state  of ADMs risk management and 
valuation function  at the time. This evidence  (the ET evidence) was presented to illustrate  facts they 
say was unknown to them at the time about the official being overwhelmed by pressure  and about 
ADMs risk management and valuation capabilities  being dysfunctional   both happening  during the 
relevant calls between the Rep and the official.
The submissions were  shared with ADM and it responded with submissions  of its own.  It rejected,  
disputed and dismissed the ET evidence, in as far as Ms S relies upon it, with detailed  reasons. 
Overall, it maintained its original position on the complaint,  rebutted points made by Ms S and the 
Rep, and responded to enquiries made by the investigator. 
One such  enquiry  related  to the difference between initial margin and variation margin  in the account. 
ADM explained that sufficient capacity in the former is required to open trades and sufficient capacity 
in the latter is required to maintain opened trades in an account  as the profit/loss status of the trades 
fluctuate. It also said initial  margin  for the Options and Futures trades  could be offset  the nature of 
offsetting having been  part of the investigators query  and repeated that the Futures hedge in Ms S 
case had the effect of capping losses when the variation margin on her Options  was already a 
negative number and exceeded cash in the account, hence why the Rep was trying to trade within the 
hedge arrangement at the time and in response to market movements.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Given the significant effort both parties have clearly made to 
present a number of helpful  and substantial submissions on the complaint,  I also wish to assure them 
that all their submissions  (and the evidence they refer to) have  been considered. 
Valuation Information
This issue serves as the foundation to the complaint. There is no dispute that Ms S account was 
based on an execution only service from ADM; there is no allegation that ADM gave unsuitable or any 
advice and no allegation that it was obliged to do so; given the telephone recording and transcript 
evidence of the conversations that took place  on 5 February, there can be no meaningful dispute 
about what was said in those conversations;  there is no dispute that account  valuation  information  
(relevant to the lead and linked accounts, including  Ms S) was given by ADM to the Rep and no 
dispute that this was done  with direct relevance  to, and because of, the state  of the Options trades,  
Ref: DRN341210911the state of the Futures hedging arrangement and the state of margin in the account(s); and there is 
no dispute that the Rep relied upon the valuation  information he received and that he reacted, in 
terms of his management  of the hedging arrangement, because  of the valuation information he 
received.
What is in dispute, in this issue, are whether  (or not) ADM held responsibility to ensure the valuation 
information was correct and whether (or not) the Rep was entitled to rely on that information.
I endorse the investigators findings on this issue and agree  that ADM  cannot fairly rely on the liability  
disclaimers it has referred to. I do not suggest  that the inherent  power of contractual terms wilfully 
agreed between contracting parties should be ignored or dismissed. I appreciate that ADMs position 
is that the relevant and binding disclaimers were wilfully agreed by Ms S in the RCA  and that they 
have the effect of removing liability for the valuation  information. The first point is valid, but 
consideration of the second  point does not end with reference to the liability  disclaimers alone. 
Ultimately, ADM was responsible for delivering full-service investment brokerage  for its clients, 
including Ms S (and the Rep, on behalf of Ms S). The RCA defined  the service, but it also sat in the 
context of that service   meaning  that its role was to set out terms on which the service would be 
delivered but the nature of the service itself indicates how the terms should,  fairly, be interpreted.  
Mutual evidence in this case is that the Reps did not have access to an online  trading  platform  and, 
as ADM concedes,    
The trading statements  generated by ADMISI (and not any screen-based valuations, real time or 
otherwise after the events) are the only and definitive means by which  the firm and clients can see, 
measure and assess the value of their daily trading  positions and the corresponding margin 
requirements due to us.
The trading statements  are produced and usually accessible only from 6 or 7 am London  time on 
each business day, on the day following a trade 
This meant  that, as the investigator noted, the Reps  engagement with ADM  over the telephone on 5 
February was the only way in which he could have the valuation information. There  was no 
alternative. The state of affairs at the time was that ADM had informed him of a problem  (or potential 
problem) in the account(s)  with regards to margin, that the issue was margin on the hedge  side of the 
trades and that the issue needed to be addressed. Therefore, he had to address the problem during 
those calls and the only source of the information he required to do so was the ADM  official. I 
appreciate that ADM has also said  
Any such  discussions would have drawn  on speculative  prices and imprecise  market prices. This 
occurred out of hours (during  the grey market), post- closing, in a hard to value thin options market.
However, I consider it reasonably clear from the contents of the relevant telephone calls of 5 February  
that there was no warning or suggestion  especially by the time of the last call  that the valuation 
information given to the Rep was unreliable. Indeed, evidence shows that the Rep was keen to 
ensure the information was reliable, that ADMs official was aware of this and that the official 
eventually confirmed that it was reliable.
ADM has presented arguments querying  what the Reps have done previously  in order to obtain 
valuation information  and, where that did not have  ADM as a source, why they did not do the same 
thing on 5 February.  I consider this somewhat irrelevant.  What was done on 5 February  is clear and, 
given that ADM initiated the calls, initiated  notice  of the need to take action  (for which  the valuation 
information was required)  and was the only source of the valuation information, what  the Rep did on 
this date was reasonable.
Another matter that is  or should be  beyond dispute is the fact that the valuation  information was 
wrong. I have  considered Ms S theory about why and how the ADM  official misguided himself in 
considering and conveying the valuation  information. Her theory  and supporting evidence  is 
Ref: DRN341210912persuasive. It refers to the official focusing only on the Options  trades that directly  matched the 
Futures trades, whilst ignoring the fact that there was other Options  trades in the account,  all of which 
affected margin and were being catered  for by the hedging arrangement. Based on the supporting 
calculations, I consider  this plausible.
I understand ADMs views on the ET evidence, but I consider that there is value in a judgment 
document which, perhaps fortuitously, provides us with judicial  findings of fact about circumstances  
related to the ADM official on and around 5 February 2018  and circumstances  related to ADMs  risk 
management and valuations function  around the same time. Such findings  undoubtedly have  
relevance to this complaint  and, in a nutshell, they say the official was in the midst of significant work-
related pressure  at the time which appears to have affected his performance; and that ADMs risk 
management and valuations function  on the night of 5 February was somewhere between limited and 
non-existent. This serves as another  plausible  explanation for the erroneous valuation information.
I do not consider  that the reasons, or potential reasons, behind the incorrect valuation information 
need to be treated  beyond what I have  said above. It is important to address  them as a part of the 
complaint (and to show that the potential reasons also appear to have been within ADMs  
responsibility)  as I have done above  but the key point remains that the information was wrong.  
ADM is responsible  for that. The Rep relied upon  the information  and altered the hedging 
arrangement (as detailed in the background above) because  of that. ADM  is responsible for that too. 
In the next sub-section, I address the consequences of the altered  hedging arrangement  and I find 
that they caused  the losses incurred by Ms S. It follows that ADM  is responsible for those  losses too.
Ms S Losses
I do not consider  that the Rep needed any help on how to manage the Options  trades, the Futures 
hedging arrangement and/or the margin  issue.  Another matter that both parties appear to agree  upon 
is that the Reps were/are significantly experienced  in trading. I mention this because there appears to 
be a suggestion that the Rep mistakenly thought exposure  in the Options trades was being offset  by 
the Futures trades when in fact it was not. I have not seen evidence from the dialogue between the 
Rep and ADMs official which shows such a mistake and the Reps experienced profile  does not lend 
itself to such a scenario.
ADMs explanation of the difference between initial  and variation margin  is clear but it does not 
appear that there is any controversy about  this distinction. During the telephone calls on 5 February it 
is reasonably clear that both the Rep and ADMs  official understood  that they were discussing and 
considering margin in the context of fluctuating profit/loss. Indeed, the volatility and falls in the index 
[price] at the time was the main prompt for the events on that date.
The idea of crystalizing loss at the point the hedge was put in place  and potentially  denying gains in 
the Options  trades thereafter  also does not appear to be controversial. That would have been  a 
natural effect of the hedging arrangement, if it remained  untouched. However,  evidence shows that 
the Rep.  was very actively managing the matter and was committed to doing  so through  the night and 
overnight into the following day. He asked the ADM official about ADMs night desk  provisions for this 
purpose. As ADM has said, the Rep was engaged in  actively trying  to place  and remove futures 
hedges in response to moves in the market .
In other words, the Futures hedging arrangement  did offset the Options trades; and the point about  
crystalizing loss is nullified  by the fact that the Rep was actively  managing the arrangement, more 
likely (than  not) with the ultimate aim of reducing (or even removing  it) when the market  and the state 
of the Options  trades permitted and potentially releasing capacity  to make  returns.
I have led with the above  as matters that have been raised to question  the merits  of Ms S claim  that 
alteration of the hedging arrangement happened  in the context of offsetting exposure in the Options  
trade. I am satisfied this was the case.
Ref: DRN341210913Another matter that seems  to question the merits of her claim is ADMs reference to the variation 
margin already being negative and in excess of cash in the account when the hedging  arrangement 
was put in place. Its point in this respect is not quite clear. The facts are that no margin  call happened 
until 6 February, so the point could  not be that a margin call had happened before the Futures hedges  
were placed  on 5 February  and account statement information shared with this service does not 
show this. If the point  is that the price falls in the index had already  started to create losses in the 
Options trades, this is acknowledged within  Ms S complaint submissions. Unless, ADMs  comments 
on this provisional  decision include an explanation  as to the relevance of this point, I will be inclined  to 
consider it irrelevant.
Having addressed  the above matters, the task that remains is consideration of the correlation 
between the alterations made to the hedging arrangement on 5 February and the losses Ms S faced 
on 6 February.
The erroneous valuation information given  by ADM to the Rep meant that the latter  was told the 
account was in healthy credit at the time, but because of the volatility and movements in the index it 
was actually in negative balance  territory. The erroneous information also led the Rep to believe that 
the Options  trades were more than hedged by the Futures trades and excessively so. So much so 
that the message to the Rep was essentially that the over-hedging Futures trades had become the 
primary position   which, as a hedging arrangement, they were not supposed  to be  and were 
directly affecting margin in a negative way. 
Ms S submissions  (and calculations)  about how the error happened and about  what  would have 
happened, but for the error, help to consider this matter of causation. What  she has presented has not 
been accepted simply on face value and the components and figures she has used have been 
verified. I have also considered evidence beyond her submissions  but relevant  to the matter  of 
causation. Overall and in the main, the findings that emerge are:
The Rep.  was already engaged in hedging the Options trades from around 19:00 on 5 
February and before the relevant calls with ADM. Evidence of the true state of the account  
and of the price movements  for the index around the time show  that the hedging arrangement  
was correctly conceived and was working.
During the calls, the true state of the account  was such that because  of continuing volatility 
and price  movement in the index  the Options  trades (that is, all the leveraged  Options trades 
in the account)  required  some  more   not less  hedging. As addressed above,  the Rep was 
told the opposite and this appears to have happened  because ADMs  official focused  on 
some, not all, of the Options trades in the account.
The correct valuation information on the account as a whole  and on delta relevant  to the short  
Put Options  trades  that is, the assessment of sensitivity to their value arising from the 
decreasing change in the indexs price  would have given the Rep what he needed to 
calculate the size of additional hedging required. Instead, ADM applied delta to the wrong 
account valuation  and the result  was an indication of the size by which the hedging should  be 
reduced.
But for the erroneous information, and with accurate  valuation information,  the Rep would 
have continued in the same  hedging direction he had begun, this would have mitigated losses 
across the trades and, as I mentioned above, it is more likely  than not that he would  have 
continued to manage and adjust the hedging arrangement and the trades overnight, as 
needed. Instead the opposite happened,  because of the erroneous valuation information, and 
by the morning  of 6 February  the account was in significant negative balance  that could not 
thereafter be mitigated.
The erroneous  valuation information for which ADM is responsible  directly caused  Ms S 
losses and negative account balance  as of 6 February 2018.
fair compensation
Ref: DRN341210914If my provisional findings  and conclusions  are retained in the final decision, my aim will be to put Ms S 
back into the position she would be in had the misinformation from ADM  not caused her losses and 
negative balance. 
A distinct difficulty in doing this with precision is the fact that her account  was being  actively traded  by 
the Rep  so the Options  trades and the hedging  arrangements  were under constant and active 
management too. I have noted evidence  about her (and the Reps) overarching strategy  aimed at 
earning returns through the collection of premiums for short Options  trades that expire OTM. That is 
plausible, but what remains unknown is precisely  how the relevant trades (both Options  and Futures)  
would have continued on 6 February or how they would  eventually have  concluded. I also consider 
that any attempt to consider this or argue about this with the benefit of hindsight  would  be unsafe, 
because what is important is what would have happened at the time of the relevant events  when no 
such hindsight existed.
For the above  reason,  I am likely to conclude  in the final decision   that fair compensation  for Ms S 
should have a simpler basis and should be to reverse what evidence  confirms  was the financial  
detriment directly caused by ADMs  misinformation.  That is captured between the state of the account 
at the time of the first call between its official and the Rep on 5 February  2018  I understand this was 
at 21:06  and the state of the account when the positions were  liquidated at 15:35 on 6 February 
2018. I appreciate  that the negative state of the account was already in both parties  awareness from 
the morning of 6 February, however they share common ground in terms of the mutual agreement 
they had to allow time to attempt  mitigation.  As the investigator  said, the Reps confirmed, by 11:20, 
that this could  not be done successfully and then the positions were  closed at 15:35. 
Overall, I am inclined to consider that the total and crystalized loss Ms S incurred between 21:06 on 5 
February and 15:35 on 6 February is what she fairly deserves to be compensated for. I appreciate 
that events, but for the erroneous valuation  information, might have ended on 6 February  or even 
thereafter with the generation of overall net profit  for her. Equally, the opposite might have been the 
case. The point is that I do not have enough evidence to determine this, but there is enough evidence  
to determine that the loss as described  above is what she certainly  incurred, so that is the loss that 
she should be compensated for.
In other cases, I could consider awarding  interest on compensation.  I am not inclined to do so in Ms 
S case. Such awards usually aim to compensate for a complainants loss of interest that could have 
been earned,  perhaps in a savings  context, if the compensation amount had been in hand from the 
time of the event to date.  As I said above, Ms S account was under very active  trading, so a savings 
context does  not apply and what would have happened to the compensation amount on or after 6 
February cannot safely be determined. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that Ms Ss complaint will be upheld unless 
the comments  I have invited change my considerations.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3412109