K821x#15complaint
Mrs O complains that Vanquis Bank Limited has refused  her a refund.
background
Mrs O told us that her daughter, who is a child, was shortlisted for a modelling competition. It 
is not entirely clear  how Mrs O was initially contacted  about  this, although Mrs O had been  
looking online for information about how her daughter could become a model.  The prize for 
the modelling competition was a contract  with a well-known fashion  designer. Mrs Os 
daughter was invited  to a photo shoot  as part of the competition and Mrs O went with her. 
On the day of the shoot, her daughter was photographed and interviewed. Further,  Mrs O 
was told that the photos that had just been taken,  were needed for the viewing panel who 
were judging the competition. Mrs O was made aware that there was one other candidate 
who had also made it this far. This candidate and Mrs Os daughter  were  both in the running 
to win the competition. 
Much later that same day, the company  that was running the competition  and taking the 
photos a limited company who I will call T, congratulated  Mrs O and her daughter because 
she had won the competition. However, there was a snag, in order  to secure the contract, 
Mrs O had to buy the copyright in the photos  and the way she was to do this was by buying  
the photos from T. It appears that this was the first time T had mentioned  anything  about this 
requirement. 
However, Mrs O suggested despite  this unexpected  turn of events T put her at ease. This 
was because T reassured Mrs O that the fee for the contract with the famous fashion 
designer, which was guaranteed, would cover  this outlay. T explained that really  all she was 
doing was investing in her daughters career  and that investment would be paid back  very 
shortly. This was because the photo  shoot with the fashion designer would be taking place in 
the next few weeks  and the fee for that would offset  most of the fee for the photos. 
Moreover, it indicated Mrs Os daughter  had a bright  future in modelling  ahead of her.
Feeling somewhat under pressure it seems and not wanting her daughter  to lose out on this 
contract, Mrs O agreed to pay T £5,500 for the photos. Also, it appears that Mrs O had in the 
back of her mind, that there was another potential  model who had also been shortlisted, but 
her daughter  had pipped  that other candidate  to the post on the basis, at least in part, of the 
photos T had taken.  
According to Mrs O, T gave her the date of the modelling session with the famous fashion 
designer. This was about three weeks  away. It also said Mrs O and her daughter  needed to 
keep their passports  ready and wait for Ts email and call about the upcoming photo shoot 
with the famous  designer. Further it told her the all the relevant remaining paper work would 
follow shortly when  Ts administrative office  opened again, (the photo shoot had taken place 
on a Sunday).  Mrs Os daughter was also promised a mentor.
The email  and the call never came. Instead, Mrs O emailed T but her emails went 
unanswered. Mrs O rang T only to find the phone line went  dead. She began to suspect all 
was not what  it seemed.  
Ref: DRN39259812Mrs O had used her credit card supplied by Vanquis  to pay £4,000 of the £5,550. In addition 
to this, Mrs O had paid a £50 deposit  before the photo shoot, to secure her daughters place.  
The balance of the money, £1,500 had come  from her current account.  
Mrs O contacted both Vanquis  and her current account provider a third-party  bank I will call 
L. She told them she had been  scammed by T and asked them  both to help her get her 
money back. 
L refunded the £1,500.  But Vanquis took a different  approach. Mrs O suggested that 
Vanquis initially told her she need  not pay anything towards the £4,000 while her complaint 
was being investigated. But then subsequently she found Vanquis had reported negative  
information to the credit  reference agencies about  her lack of repayments in relation to the 
£4,000. Mrs O was unhappy  with this. To try to salvage her credit record,  Mrs O offered to 
pay £50 per month towards her account  as a goodwill gesture until the complaint was 
resolved. It appears that she has continued to pay £50 per month up until now.
Vanquis explained that it might, in principle, be possible to get Mrs Os money back via a 
process known as chargeback. But it suggested it was not going to go down this route 
because there was no point. In order  to raise a chargeback  claim on her behalf, it would 
need to rely on a valid chargeback reason. It suggested there  was no such  reason here.
Further, it seems  Vanquis thought about whether to refund  Mrs O on the basis  of Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (Section  75). This provision gives an account holder who 
has a breach of contract or misrepresentation claim against the supplier of goods  and/or 
services paid for using  a credit card the right to pursue a like claim against  the lender in 
certain circumstances.  However,  it appears  Vanquis declined to refund Mrs O under this 
provision because it didnt  accept there had been a misrepresentation  or a breach of 
contract.
In addition, Vanquis didnt agree that it had told Mrs O that she need not make any 
repayments until the complaint was resolved.
Dissatisfied Mrs O came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Os complaint. He was persuaded that it was fair and 
reasonable that Vanquis should refund  Mrs O. He said this because  he was satisfied that 
Mrs O entered into the contract with T, based  on misrepresentation and that there  had been 
a breach of contract.  He also thought that Vanquis should have carried out the chargeback 
as there  was a valid chargeback reason.
Mrs O accepted our investigators recommendation, Vanquis did not. In summary, it 
suggested where a consumer  makes  a claim based  on verbal misrepresentation, as is the 
case in this complaint,  this is not enough for it to uphold a claim under Section 75. In 
addition, it pointed out Mrs O said shed been scammed  by T, however, the victims of scams 
typically receive nothing. Whereas here Mrs O got a photoshoot, and the photos, and the 
photos had been loaded  to a website, moreover, she signed an invoice saying as much.  For 
these reasons it didnt  think  what we were dealing with here looked like a scam to it. Rather 
it thought Mrs O had a contract with T for it to take photos of her daughter  and give her 
copies of those  photos and that is what it, T, had done. Vanquis  suggested  there was 
nothing to back up her story  about  the rest of it. Further,  Vanquis  also told us, again, that it 
believed it had no valid basis for attempting a chargeback.
Ref: DRN39259813Wed reached an impasse and could go no further  at this stage, so I was asked to take a 
fresh look at Mrs Os complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs O brings her complaint  to us relying, in part, on the rights  she has under Section 75. She 
has these rights because  of the type of finance  that she used to pay for the contract with T. 
That is, she used her credit card. And we can look at a complaint by her about this 
agreement because Vanquis is a regulated lender and the agreement is a regulated
agreement.
As I have already  mentioned  the general  effect  of Section 75 is that if Mrs O has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  the supplier,  here T, she can also bring that 
claim against Vanquis provided  certain  conditions are met.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Os complaint,  I have  to take
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for
example, a court might reach if Mrs O pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of
contract. Our service is an informal alternative  to the courts.
One of things that is required for a successful  claim under Section 75 is a valid debtor-
creditor- supplier relationship. Here  that means  that Mrs O had to be the debtor, Vanquis  the 
creditor and T the supplier. Im satisfied  that there is such  a valid relationship  here. Mrs O 
was the contracting party, she signed the agreement and carried  out the negotiations with T 
as I would expect  given the age of her daughter. Vanquis provided the credit and T was to 
provide the services. I see that the actual payment was taken by a third party, but it is clear 
from the written agreement that the third party merely acted as a payment processor, so it 
was not a party to the underlying contract. It follows that the involvement of that third party 
had no impact on the existence of the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
As I have mentioned  above Section 75 gives Mrs O a remedy if she has a claim for 
misrepresentation against T. Here misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that 
Mrs O relied on to her detriment. Mrs O tells us the only reason she bought  the photos was 
because of what she was told about the competition and the contract  with the fashion  
designer. Vanquis says she has nothing to show any of this was said.  It suggests, even if it 
was said then this was a verbal  misrepresentation and thats not enough to invoke the 
protection of Section 75. Vanquis is mistaken  about this point. Verbal misrepresentation is 
still misrepresentation.
That said I do accept that by their very nature such alleged verbal representations are hard 
to substantiate.  After  all there is generally nothing  in writing, which  of course is the whole 
point. I therefore  have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of probabilities.  
Ref: DRN39259814When I am doing this, I look at all of the wider relevant circumstances to help me come  to a 
conclusion about  what was most  likely  said by T.
It seems  Mrs O and T set up the competition  photoshoot by email. So, there is some,  very 
limited written information about the nature of the agreement  between Mrs O and T. The 
email from T says, your application has been  successful so a massive congratulations,  It 
also says in order to secure  your assessment please contact us within  24 hours  of receiving 
this email. This does not suggest that the only thing that T had promised Mrs O was a photo 
shoot and photos.
We have asked Mrs O why she didnt  ask for all the paperwork on the day. She signed  the 
paperwork relating  to the photos after all there  and then why did she not ask for the rest of 
it? I think this may be what Vanquis  is getting at, in part, when it suggests it doubts  her 
version of events. But Mrs O explains the photo shoot took place on a Sunday.  The whole  
process lasted hours with the photos  being taken first, then an interview and then waiting for 
the competition result. It was late in the day it seems when the result came  through,  T 
explained the administrative staff did not work  on Sundays, but the paperwork would follow  
soon. I can understand  why Mrs O found  this a plausible position in the circumstances.
Then there is Mrs Os behaviour once she didnt hear further  from T. She chased T. Which I 
think shows she had been promised something from it that she had not got. Im persuaded 
what she was promised  is what she told us about.  Then once she found T was 
uncontactable she tried to get her money  back. All of these actions on Mrs Os part fit with 
what she tells us about the competition and her expectations about the modelling contract. 
Further, if I am to accept Vanquiss version of events, Id need  to accept that Mrs O spent 
£5,550 on a purely speculative basis. Which given how large an amount of money  we are 
talking about here,  I dont  find persuasive.  Id also have to accept  that Mrs O paid for photos 
to put on a website which  she has no access to edit. Because it seems the photos are on a 
website, but Mrs O cant remove  them which is what she wants to do.
Im also satisfied that what T said about the confirmed contract  for the campaign  with the 
famous fashion designer was so specific and central to the contractual negotiations that it 
became a term of the contract. It follows because that work never materialised there was a 
breach of the contract  too.
I take Vanquiss point  about the scam. Typically, the victim of a scam receives nothing.  
However, that is not always  the case. In other words,  getting nothing for your money  is not 
an absolute a prerequisite  for a scam. In any event,  Im not making  a finding about scams  as 
that is a criminal matter  and I have no power  to do that. Rather, as I say above Im looking at 
whether I think Mrs O entered  into the contract  based on misrepresentation and whether the 
contract was breached  I have already made  findings  about that above.
I dont agree the contract was part performed i.e. because photos were  taken by T. Im 
satisfied that Mrs O only purchased the photos  because she was told this was the only way 
to secure the contract with the designer. The photos  were not of any value  by themselves in 
the circumstances.
For all of these reasons, I find it is fair and reasonable that Vanquis should refund the 
remainder of the money, £4,050 to Mrs O.
Ref: DRN39259815Ive already found that Vanquis  has to refund Mrs O so I dont  need  to look at the 
chargeback point, as the remedy for this would be the more or less the same  as I have 
already given. Apart from that Mrs O would not have got the £50 deposit back via a 
chargeback initiated by Vanquis.  That said we contacted L. It seems L refunded  Mrs O 
having got back her money under the chargeback rules. That being so, this does rather  call 
into question what Vanquis  said about  there being  no valid chargeback reason and that the 
chargeback would have failed.
Im not persuaded that Vanquis gave Mrs O inaccurate information about  the need  to make 
repayments to her account. Ive seen Vanquiss  notes,  I dont  see why these would be 
inaccurate. The notes mention nothing about  Vanquis agreeing  to freeze payments. Rather  
the notes say the opposite. And I can understand why, as this was its policy.  I dont think  it is 
likely that Vanquis would have departed from its policy in this instance. It follows that I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis  Bank Limited  must:
Refund the £4,000  by reworking Mrs Os account as if she never  paid the £4,000 
including refunding any repayments she made towards the £4,000 and the interest  or 
charges accrued in relation to the payment.
If reworking the account results  in a credit balance pay 8% simple yearly interest on 
any credit  balance  from the date that the credit  balance arose to the date of 
settlement. *
Contact the credit  reference agencies and ask them  to remove any adverse 
information it has asked  them  to register in relation to the £4,000.
Pay Mrs O the £50 she paid for the deposit  as it appears she did not use her credit 
card to pay this. Pay 8% simple yearly  interest on the £50 the interest  to run from the 
date the £50 was paid until the date of settlement.  *
*If Vanquis considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs O a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3925981