K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited. 
background 
Mr M held a long standing policy with Cigna. When he tried to claim  on this he was told the 
policy had ceased  some years ago. He was offered £50 compensation for communication 
issues from the time the policy  ceased, but he wanted his clam met, or failing that a refund of 
the premiums he has paid over the years. He complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but didnt think  the claim should  be met, or a 
refund given. They did think the compensation for poor communication should be increased  
by £200, but no more.  Mr M wasnt happy  with this, so the case  has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing the view expressed by the investigator. Ill explain  why. 
Mr Ms policy was cancelled  in 2011,  and it looks like Mr M was told this in 2012, or at least a 
refund of the 2011 / 2012 premium was made then. I appreciate Mr M says he wasnt told 
but I must  also note he doesnt seem to have  paid any premiums after 2012, so I do think he 
should have realised his policy was no longer running. 
As his policy  ceased to exist a number of years before Mr Ms intended  claim in 2016 I cant 
reasonably ask Cigna to meet that claim. Equally  if he had made a valid claim before 2012 I 
would have expected Cigna to meet that claim, so they were  providing cover for the 
premiums paid before 2012, so I wont ask them to return those premiums either. 
It does appear that when  the cover was stopped  in 2011 / 2012  Mr M may not have got all 
the documentation he should have, I cant be sure, so I can see why our investigator  asked 
Cigna to pay a higher  compensation award for this. I have to say an extra  £200 is probably  
more than I would have asked them to pay, but as Cigna  have  agreed  to pay this I dont see 
the need to revisit that figure. I dont think any other award is due. 
Ref: DRN34055452my final decision
Cigna Insurance  Services  (Europe) Limited  should pay Mr M the extra £200 they have 
agreed (if they havent already done  so). I make no other award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3405545