K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold them  two payment protection  
insurance policies  (PPI).
Background 
Mr and Mrs Rs first PPI policy was sold in 2004  alongside a mortgage. It offered protection  
in the event that Mr R was unable to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment  it 
didnt provide cover for Mrs R. At the time, Mr R was employed full time and he has told us 
he was entitled  to six months full sick pay followed by six months  half pay in the event that 
he was unable to work.  Mrs R was a temporary worker and wasnt  entitled  to any employee 
benefits. 
Mr and Mrs R told us they held a significant  amount in savings in the summer of 2004  
following a house  sale. 
In 2010, Mr and Mrs R were sold a second policy   the insurance was set up to cover both 
Mr and Mrs R in the event  that they were unable to work due to accident or sickness. The 
policy didnt provide any protection in the event of unemployment. 
From what  we know, Mr Rs circumstances  dont appear to have changed between the two 
sales other than his length  of service. In contrast,  Mrs R had become a permanent employee 
and she has told us she was entitled to the same benefits as Mr R in the event of accident 
and sickness. 
Both policies  had an element of life and critical illness cover. But as those elements of cover 
are not subject to this complaint, I will not comment on them in this decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2019   a copy  of which is attached  
and forms part of this decision. I set out the background to the matter  and explained  why I 
didnt think Mr and Mrs Rs first policy, sold in 2004, should be upheld. In summary, this was 
because I didnt think the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs R and I didnt think  it had 
been mis-sold. I went on to consider the second sale that took place in 2010 and explained 
that as Bank of Scotland  had concluded  at the time that Mr and Mrs R didnt have a need for 
the policy, I was unable to reconcile its subsequent  recommendation  that they take it out. 
Bank of Scotland responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed  with my 
recommendations to uphold  the second sale and that it still wished to defend the 2004 sale.
Mr and Mrs R didnt reply to my provisional decision with any additional comments  or 
information. 
As the time has passed  for both parties  to provide any additional  information  they would like 
me to consider, it is now appropriate for me to issue my final decision.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32102852Weve set out our general approach to complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website, 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
As neither party has provided new evidence or arguments for me to consider, I can see no 
reason to reach a different decision to the one I set out in my provisional decision. So it 
follows that I will partially uphold the complaint and direct Bank of Scotland  to compensate 
Mr and Mrs R for the 2010  sale. I make  no award  for the 2004  sale.  
Putting things  right
In light of what Ive said above, Bank of Scotland should put Mr and Mrs R in the position 
they would  be in now if they hadnt have taken PPI in 2010. So the policy should be 
cancelled if it hasnt  been cancelled already and Bank of Scotland  should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the 2010 policy; 
-Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr and Mrs R paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year ;
-If there  were any successful claims under the 2010 PPI policy, Bank of Scotland can 
take off what these amounted to from the amount it owes  Mr and Mrs R. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. Bank  of Scotland must give Mr R and Mrs
R a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the policy  sold in 
2010. Bank of Scotland plc should  compensate Mr and Mrs R as directed above. 
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the policy  sold in 2004.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN32102853Complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold them  two payment protection 
insurance policies (PPI).
Background
Mr and Mrs Rs first policy  was sold in 2004  alongside  a mortgage. It offered protection for Mr R 
only and was designed to pay out in the event that he was unable to work  due to accident, 
sickness and unemployment. At the time, Mr R was employed full time and has told us he was 
entitled to six months full sick pay followed  by six months half pay in the event that he was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness.
In 2004, Mrs R was employed  as a supply teacher  working as a temporary/agency worker. She has 
told us she wasnt entitled to sick pay or any cover  in the event that she was to find herself  out of 
work.
Mr and Mrs R have told us they held a substantial amount of savings in the summer of 2004 
following a house sale.
In 2010, Mr and Mrs R were sold a second policy  the insurance was set up to cover both
Mr and Mrs R in the event that they were unable  to work  due to accident or sickness. It didnt provide 
cover in the event of unemployment. From what we know, Mr Rs circumstances
dont appear  to have changed other than his tenure  with his employer. In contrast, Mrs R 
appears to have  become  a permanent employee  and as a result, has told us she was entitled to 
the same benefits as Mr R in the event of accident and sickness.
Both policies  also had an element of life and critical illness  cover. But as those elements of cover  
are not subject to this complaint, I will not comment on them further in this decision.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Rs complaint but didnt think it should  be 
upheld. As Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, the case has been
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Having  done so, I intend to 
partially uphold it. Ive set out my reasons below.
The 2004 sale
Bank of Scotland  had to ensure Mr and Mrs R knew the PPI policy was an optional  product and 
not a condition of their lending.
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt consent  to the policy. Unfortunately, as the sale took place  around 
15 years ago, paperwork no longer remains. But given  what  I know of Bank of Scotlands sales 
practices at the time,  I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs R were presented with an option to take 
PPI and they chose to take it out knowing they didnt have to  although  I can understand why 
they might not remember this now. Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied there is 
Ref: DRN32102854sufficient evidence  to say Bank of Scotland set up and began charging Mr and Mrs R for the 
policy without their consent.
Bank of Scotland  says it recommended this policy to Mr and Mrs R. This means it had to make 
sure it was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think  
that it was. For example  Mr R wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover 
and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Although  Mr R has told us he was entitled to six 
months full sick pay followed by six months half, the PPI would pay out on top of this and for far 
longer  the policy offered  a 24 month period of cover per claim. So I think  they would have  found 
it useful  if Mr R had not been able to work  particularly as Mrs R wasnt in permanent  employment  
and wasnt entitled to any employee benefits of her own.
Mr and Mrs R say they held substantial savings at the point of sale - they have evidenced this 
with statements pre-dating the sale by a couple of months. But these  savings were  the result of a 
house sale. And rather than being rainy day savings they could rely on to meet  their mortgage  
repayments if Mr R was unable to work, it looks as though  they were  used around the same time 
that this policy was taken  out to partially  fund their house purchase.
So Im not persuaded  Mr and Mrs R had sufficient  savings at the time of taking out this cover which 
wouldve rendered the policy  unsuitable for them.
Its possible the information  Bank of Scotland gave  Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been.  But as Ive explained, I think its likely they chose to take it out  so it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful  for them  if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the policy 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Overall, having carefully considered what both parties have sent us, Im not persuaded  that the 
2004 sale was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs R so I dont uphold this part of their complaint. 
The 2010 sale
Bank of Scotland  has told us it also recommended  the second  policy to Mr and Mrs R. As above, 
this means it had to make sure the policy was right for them. Mr and Mrs R say they didnt need the 
cover. And having  looked at the information weve got from the time of sale, it looks like Bank of 
Scotland reached the same  conclusion.
I say this because weve  been provided with a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs Demands and Needs 
Statement which captures  some of the questions Mr and Mrs R were asked during the sales 
meeting in order to establish their needs and circumstances at the time.
Within these  questions and answers the following is recorded:
Based on what you have told me you do not appear to have  a need for 
unemployment cover.  Do you agree?
Based on what you have told me you do not appear to have  a need for disability
(accident & sickness) cover.  Do you agree?
Mr and Mrs R responded  yes to both of these questions. So it appears that during the sales 
meeting, both the adviser and Mr and Mrs R agreed that they didnt have a need for
accident, sickness or unemployment cover. However,  I can see that at the bottom  of this 
document the adviser went on to recommend that Mr and Mrs R take out PPI.
It isnt clear what caused the adviser to make this recommendation considering how the above  
questions were answered and Bank of Scotland has been unable  to explain why this 
Ref: DRN32102855recommendation was made. In light of this, its difficult to conclude that Bank of Scotland advised  
with reasonable care and skill.
Taking this into account in conjunction with Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time,  I think  there 
are sufficient question marks over the sale of the policy  to argue  that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
made the decision  they did had Bank of Scotland done everything it should  have.
putting things right
In light of what Ive said above, Bank of Scotland should put Mr and Mrs R in the position they 
would be in now if they hadnt have taken PPI in 2010. So the policy should be cancelled if it 
hasnt been cancelled already and Bank  of Scotland should:
-    Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the 2010 policy;
-    Add simple  interest to each payment from when Mr and Mrs R paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
-    If there were any successful claims under the 2010 PPI policy, Bank of Scotland  can 
take off what these amounted to from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs R.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.  Bank of Scotland  must 
give Mr R and Mrs R a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the policy sold in 
2010. Bank of Scotland plc should compensate Mr and Mrs R as instructed above.
I do not intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the policy sold in 2004.
All of the parties to this complaint now have until the date set out above to give me any new 
information and/or arguments before I look at the complaint again for a final decision.
Ref: DRN3210285