K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mr and Mrs B in 1994. 
The policy was sold in a meeting where  Mr and Mrs B were also arranging their mortgage.  
The policy was taken  out in Mr Bs name only and he was covered against  accidents, 
sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs B say Santander told them that taking out MPPI was a condition of taking  out a 
mortgage. They think Santander mis-sold  the policy to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Here  are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mr and Mrs B were  given a choice to have the MPPI 
policy  they say they were told it was a condition of obtaining a mortgage.  This has 
been a difficult  issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see the sales 
documentation that would have been used at the time of sale. Although this is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed since the date of sale.  
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read 
Mr and Mrs Bs recollections. Having done  this, I cant be sure what was discussed  
between Mr and Mrs B and Santander  during the meeting. Its completely 
understandable that Mr and Mrs Bs recollections are not detailed  and as I have already 
said the sale took place many  years ago. And because of this and considering  what  I 
know of sales carried out by Santander at that time, I dont think the evidence  is strong  
enough for me safely to say Santander didnt explain that MPPI was an optional feature 
in the meeting. I havent, on this occasion,  seen enough evidence  to be able to safely 
draw that conclusion.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr and Mrs B 
or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for them.  On looking at the very limited information provided and also 
taking into consideration what the parties  have  said, and what I know of Santander sales 
during this time, I think advice was given.
Ref: DRN39440842And based on the information Ive seen,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr B as the 
sole policy holder.  I say this after considering Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale. 
Because, although Mr B says he had at least 3 months sick pay at the time of sale that 
they could have used, the MPPI  policy would  have  paid out in addition to his means.  
Having the policy  in place would mean Mr and Mrs B could use any provisions they may 
have had to cover  other expenses.  
Mr B was also not affected  by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits 
such as, for example,  those that affect  self employed people or policy  holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Mr and Mrs B needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear 
information on these  terms  I dont think it would have put them  off. So I am persuaded 
the policy was suitable for Mr B.
 
I am not sure if Santander gave Mr and Mrs B clear  information about the costs of the 
policy, but even  if it did, I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have done anything  differently 
for the same reasons  as I have  already given. Ive also seen nothing  to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale,  but based  on what I have, I do not think the policy  was mis-sold.
my decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  14 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3944084