K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance  
(PPI) to Mr E. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998 . The policy was sold to 
Mr E when he applied  by post for the card. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Tesco  disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Tesco has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold Mr Es complaint. This is 
because the information Tesco gave Mr E about who counted as self employed wasnt 
made clear to Mr E. This would have  affected  Mr E as he would technically have been 
regarded as self-employed under  the terms of the policy,  because he was working for a 
close relative. Its unlikely  hed have realised this unusual  definition. 
Tesco says he should have read the policy document. But, for a start, I cant be sure this 
was sent to him along with the application form. And, even  if it was, I dont think  the definition 
was prominent  enough for him to have noticed,  nor that someone  unfamiliar with insurance 
policies would easily have  understood it. 
This would have mattered  to Mr E as, in his unusual circumstances,  it would have been 
difficult for him to make a claim within the terms for self-employment.
I think Mr E has lost out as a result of Tescos  failings  in this case   I dont think hed have 
taken out the policy  if hed been properly informed.
fair compensation
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  put Mr E in the financial position hed be in now if he 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Tesco  Personal Finance PLC should find out how much Mr E would have owed when he 
closed his credit  card account  if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  then refund the difference between what Mr E 
owed when he closed  his account and what he would  have owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN33759032If Mr E made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Tesco Personal Finance PLC can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him. It may also discount any 
refunds or related  compensation  already paid to Mr E in relation to this PPI policy that 
may have  been  paid already as a result of this complaint. 
B.Tesco  Personal Finance PLC should add simple interest on the difference  between what  
Mr E would have  owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets 
the refund. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Tesco  Personal  Finance  PLC works  out what Mr E would have owed each 
month without  PPI  Mr E paid more than enough to clear  his balance,  Tesco  Personal 
Finance PLC should  also pay simple interest  on the extra Mr E paid. And it should carry 
on paying interest  until the point when Mr E wouldve owed Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC something  on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.Tesco  Personal Finance PLC should tell Mr E what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tesco Personal Finance PLC to take off tax from this 
interest. Tesco Personal Finance PLC must give Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Es complaint.  
I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mr E compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3375903