K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
declining his claim under a travel insurance policy. He wants  his claim settled  fairly  and 
compensation.
background
Mr M had a travel insurance  policy  with IPA, which covered him for trips in Europe. He went  
on holiday  and became unwell, needing hospital  treatment. Mr M said IPA agreed that it 
would cover his costs, but later refused to pay. This was because Mr M had been  absent 
from the UK for 46 days, and the terms and conditions of the policy said it only covered trips 
of up to 31 days length. Mr M said his trip to India should be ignored, which would then 
mean his trip was under 31 days  in length.  He also said the insurer had initially said that he 
was covered, and should be bound by that promise.
Mr M complained to IPA. It said Mr M left the UK and didnt return  for 46 days, and so the 
claim was declined. The policy clearly  said that it would only cover trips of 31 days  or fewer,  
and was only available to UK residents. It defined  home  as the UK.
Mr M complained to us. IPA denied telling the hospital that Mr M was covered, and noted 
Mr M contacted the broker  who sold the policy when he needed treatment. The investigators 
view was that the terms and conditions of the policy clearly said that only trips lasting 31 
days or fewer were  covered, and the definition of home  area  was the UK. The calculation 
of the length of a trip was set out as being  the time from the UK until return,  so the time in 
India couldnt  be ignored. He also said that there wasnt sufficient evidence  that IPA agreed 
to cover Mr Ms costs.
Mr M disagreed. The investigator asked  him about his residency status  in the UK, and Mr M 
said he was a citizen and resident of India who lived in the UK when studying. The 
investigator said that the rejection of his claim was fair and reasonable and it appeared that 
Mr M wasnt a permanent  UK resident, so wasnt eligible for the policy.  He also noted  that 
Mr M hadnt provided evidence that IPA had agreed  to cover the claim  the evidence 
supplied told him to contact IPA. Mr M remained unhappy and said silence on the part of the 
insurer constituted  acceptance of his claim and his residency status. The investigator said 
silence didnt mean acceptance  and the complaint wasnt upheld.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The core of this complaint is about whether IPA acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting 
Mr Ms claim. The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility  to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think IPA is at fault. First, theres no evidence it agreed to cover this claim  silence 
does not constitute acceptance and Mr M was told to contact IPA. More  importantly, I dont 
think that Mr M was eligible to have the policy in the first place   theres no evidence that he 
held permanent resident status in the UK, and the policy states  it is only available  to those  
who have this status. Mr M himself describes himself as a citizen and resident of India.
Ref: DRN33849442As Mr M wasnt  eligible  for the policy, this means  that IPA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
in declining his claim. I also note that the condition from which  Mr M suffered from is one that 
is unlikely to have  suddenly arisen  without  warning;  its likely to be a pre-existing medical  
condition. The policy excludes any medical condition affecting you, that you are aware  of, 
that could reasonably be expected to result in a claim on this policy.
 But the core of this complaint is about  IPAs application of a 31 day rule.  The terms and 
conditions of the policy (accepted by Mr M) say that the definition of home is the UK, and 
the length of trips are calculated  based  on the departure and return date to the UK. The 
policy also says that trips cant be longer than 31 days to be covered. Such a term ought  to 
be highlighted as a significant limitation or exclusion to the consumer.
Mr M was absent from the UK for more than 46 days, but his treatment was given within  the 
first 31 days  of his holiday. IPA hasnt shown that it wouldve been prejudiced if it settled  an 
eligible claim  for treatment received within the 31 day window. But in Mr Ms case,  he wasnt 
eligible for the policy due to his residency status and it seems likely his treatment was for a 
pre-existing medical condition; this means  the claim would never have  been  successful and 
the complaint  isnt upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr M sent evidence which  he said showed  that he 
was registered  with a UK GP and had residence rights in the UK. But the evidence in my 
view doesnt show that he has permanent residency rights   Mr M had a student visa which 
ended in January  2019.  Mr M also complained that I considered the issue of pre-existing 
medical conditions  and his eligibility under the policy and said this was unfair;  but I cant  
ignore such important points when deciding  if IPA should make  payments to Mr M and hes 
had the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr M also said that the policy didnt exclude  those who were not UK permanent  residents, 
but this is incorrect. The terms and conditions (which are separate  to the policy  schedule  
Mr M sent to this service) clearly do require policyholders  to be UK permanent  residents.
IPA didnt comment on the provisional  decision,  but confirmed to this service that if Mr M 
was found to be ineligible, it would refund his insurance premium.
In light of these  comments, I remain of the view that Mr M wasnt eligible for the policy in the 
first place as he wasnt a UK permanent resident and also was likely to be suffering from a 
pre-existing medical condition. This means IPA didnt act unfairly  or unreasonably in 
declining his claim and doesnt need to repay  his medical costs.  
Mr M hasnt  brought  a complaint  that he wasnt eligible for the policy  (indeed,  he denies  this) 
so I cant at this time require IPA to refund the premiums,  but I note its agreement  to do so 
and would point  out to Mr M that he could bring such a complaint to this service if IPA 
doesnt refund him promptly if he contacts it directly following this decision. 
Ref: DRN33849443my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3384944