K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms E are unhappy that their claim for storm  damage  on their home Insurance  
policy was declined by Lloyds Bank  Insurance  Services Limited (Lloyds).
background
On 29 July 2018 Mr W and Ms Es property suffered external damage to the roof and internal  
damage to the room  beneath  a bedroom  used as a study, which  they say was caused by a 
storm. They said the storm was called storm Hector. 
Lloyds used an agent to survey  the damage. The surveyor attended the property on
1 August.  Based on these findings and weather checks, Lloyds declined the claim, saying 
that there  werent  storm conditions present at the time. Mr W and Ms E feel Lloyds  have 
relied on conflicting information made by the surveyor and therefore think  Lloyds have 
declined the claim  on misleading information.
Lloyds looked  into the reports it received and accepted that there was some  misleading 
information given  to Mr W and Ms E by the agent and offered £75 compensation. But it still 
didnt accept the claim for the external damage  although it agreed  to cover the internal 
damage under the accidental damage  section of the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no evidence  that storm 
conditions were present  on or around the 29 July, so a claim cant be made for damage 
caused by a storm. She didnt dispute that the reports had misleading information but she 
thought the reports had caveats and the reason Lloyds ultimately declined the claim was 
because there were no storm conditions as defined by the policy.  She said the 
compensation offered by Lloyds was fair in the circumstances.
Mr W and Ms E disagree. They feel our investigator hasnt understood their main complaint  
point. Theyre unhappy about the actions of the agent that Lloyds used to assess the validity  
of claim. So theyve asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr W and Ms E, Im not upholding their complaint and Ill explain why.
At this service when  considering storm damage  complaints, we consider three main issues;
 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened? 
If so, is the damage being claimed  for consistent  with damage that a storm typically  
causes? 
And were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no  the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Ref: DRN30371062Mr W and Ms Es policy  defines a storm as "We consider a storm to be violent weather like 
strong winds of 55mph  or more, torrential rain, heavy snow or hail that causes damage to 
hard surfaces or breaks glass." This definition is in line with our approach to how we classify 
storm conditions.
Do we agree  that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened? 
So the first thing for me to establish is whether there were  storm conditions at the time the 
damage was said to have occurred.  Mr W and Ms E have said that the storm happened  on 
the 29 July 2018. 
Some weather records were contained in the reports supplied to Lloyds but our investigator 
also checked the records independently.  The local weather station records dont show that a 
storm occurred on or around the 29 July. There was some rainfall  but the highest wind 
speed I can see being recorded is 33mph, therefore this wouldn't  meet the policy definition 
of storm damage.   
As Mr W and Ms E mentioned to this service that the storm was called storm Hector Ive 
looked into the dates and location of that storm. Storm Hector happened a month earlier  on 
13-14 June 2018 and the areas that were  most  affected by this storm, were in Scotland, 
Northern Ireland and North Wales, so not in the area where Mr W and Ms E live. But for 
completeness weve  checked Mr W and Ms Es local weather records for that period as well 
and there  were no storm conditions recorded.
Therefore I haven't seen that the area where  Mr W and Ms E live was affected by a storm 
either on or around  29 July or by storm Hector a month  earlier. For that reason, I dont think 
Lloyds did anything wrong in declining the claim for the external damage and I therefore 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
As I have answered no to the first of the three points we consider I dont need to consider 
the other two points.  If I thought there was a storm this is where I would look at the reports  
about the damage and I would consider how persuasive they were. However, I understand 
Mr W and Ms E are unhappy about  the content  of the reports completed by the agent  and 
feel that the agent has lied or wilfully misled the insurer. I cant look at the agents  actions  in 
isolation as its not a financial regulated business,  so doesnt come within our jurisdiction. 
The agent  provides a service to Lloyds and its Lloyds  who are responsible for the overall 
claim decision. 
I can see why Mr W and Ms E would be disappointed to receive  one report  which  supported 
the damage would  be covered, but it does state subject to weather check  and once  the 
weather check was completed the next report said Our surveyor  found no evidence to 
suggest storm, or any other one off fortuitous event, had caused the damage and that any 
adverse weather has merely highlighted pre-existing maintenance related problems. The 
storm criteria has not been  met around or on the date of loss.
Its not uncommon for a surveyor to do an initial report, but after completing and verifying 
weather checks for another report to be generated. It was after the weather checks had been 
completed, that the claim was declined  under  the storm damage  peril. 
Ref: DRN30371063When, as is the case here, the agent working on behalf of Lloyds has given a customer  
misleading information, Lloyds must take steps to put it right by putting the customer back  in 
the position he or she wouldve been  in had the mistake not been made. But that does not 
mean it must  proceed as if the wrong information was right,  it means it must proceed as if 
the right information  had been given. And it must compensate the customer  for any financial 
and non-financial losses that result.
Lloyds have already offered compensation for the misleading information and from what Ive 
seen I think this is a fair and reasonable offer. I say this because  having had a look at the 
reports, I agree there is some misleading information.
So although  I can understand Mr W and Ms E concerns, the weather records  alone  
ultimately show if a storm occurred or not and as Ive already determined  a storm didnt 
occur, Im not going  to ask Lloyds to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3037106