K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Loans  2 Go Limited  (L2G) irresponsibly gave him a number of loans 
he couldnt afford to pay. 
background
As far as I can see, Mr M was given  twelve loans between August  2015 and October  2018.  
The loans were  a mixture of logbook loans  and unsecured personal ones. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ms complaint.  She thought that proportionate checks  
wouldve stopped  L2G from giving Mr M this loan and so she upheld the complaint. 
L2G disagreed  with our investigators  assessment. It said that it no longer had any 
information about Mr Ms loan but was prepared to refund 50% of the interest  Mr M paid, 
plus interest at 8%, as a gesture of goodwill. As L2G disagreed with our investigator the 
case was passed  to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Ms complaint.  
Having carefully considered everything  Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Our investigator set out that bearing  in mind  the amount advanced, the interest rate and the 
number of loans  involved she thought  it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate for L2G 
to have had a good understanding  of Mr Ms actual financial position before lending  to him. 
She also set out that a reasonable understanding of Mr Ms financial position would more 
likely than not have  shown that he was gambling  unsustainable amounts of money and so 
his ability  to repay his loans was in large  part due to his success as a gambler. 
Ive carried out my own review, looked  at everything afresh and reached my own 
conclusions. And having  done  so, I also think that proportionate checks wouldve involved  
L2G having a reasonable  understanding of Mr Ms actual  financial position before lending to 
him. 
L2Gs response to us said that Mr M never  called it to inform of his gambling and resultant 
financial difficulty. But I think that this somewhat misses the point here as L2G ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware of this matter bearing in mind proportionate checks  would  
more likely than not have shown this.
So it seems  to me that either L2G carry out proportionate  checks and unfairly lent to Mr M  
more likely than not knowing about  his gambling, or it didnt know about his gambling  and its 
check werent proportionate  although  I note that three of these loans were provided  after 
Mr Ms complaint.    
Either way, in these  circumstances, Im satisfied  that its more  likely than not that L2G 
unfairly and unreasonable provided  Mr M with all twelve of his loans.
Ref: DRN30942132As Mr M paid interest and charges on loans that he shouldnt have been given, I think that 
Mr M lost out because of L2G unfairly providing him with these  loans. So Im upholding      
Mr Ms complaint and L2G needs  to put things right.  
what L2G should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr M, L2G should:
refund the interest and charges Mr M paid on all of his loans;
add interest at 8% per year simple  on all refunded payments from the date they were  
made to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of these 
loans.
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give      
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Loans  2 Go Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3094213