K821x#15complaint
Ms L is unhappy that Marks  & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) recorded late payment 
markers against her credit card account.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 February 2020, a copy of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  I said Ms L paid her June 2018  payment before the statement  was produced, 
and M&S  credited this to her account  as an extra payment for May. I thought it was 
reasonable they did this, and the statement  M&S sent Ms L on 29 May showed the payment 
had been credited to her account and that a minimum payment was still due by 23 June. 
Because Ms L didnt make this payment,  I also thought  M&S  had acted reasonably by 
reporting the missed  payment to the credit reference agencies.
M&S issued  a statement on 29 June 2018,  which showed that a missed payment charge had 
been applied.  Ms L called M&S on 9 July to discuss this and on this call M&S  misadvised  Ms 
L of how much shed need  to pay. Because of this, she didnt  pay enough and M&S reported 
this as another missed payment to the credit reference agencies.  They  also charged Ms L a 
second missed payment  fee.
I didnt think M&S had acted reasonably when they reported the missed payment for July 
2018, or when  they charged  a missed payment fee for this  had they told Ms L what she 
needed to pay on the phone call this situation wouldve been avoided.  So I said M&S should 
refund the missed  payment  fee to Ms L, plus interest, and remove  the July 2018 missed  
payment from her credit file. I also said they should pay Ms L £100 to compensate her for 
the worry and inconvenience of having  two missed payments  on her credit  file, when this 
should only have  been one.
Both Ms L and M&S have  been given the opportunity to comment  on my provisional  
decision. M&S didnt  object to my view, and Mrs L accepted this. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Because neither Ms L nor M&S have 
objected to my provisional view,  this my final decision.
Putting things  right
To put Ms L back in the position she shouldve been in M&S should:
Remove the July 2018 missed payment marker  from Ms Ls credit file.
Refund Ms L the £12 fee relating to the missed payment  in July 2018, plus 8% simple  
interest from the date of the charge to the date of refund.
Pay Ms L £100 to compensate her for the worry and inconvenience of having two 
missed payments showing on her credit  file from July 2018.
Ref: DRN35858892my final decision
For the reasons  explained above uphold Ms Ls complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc must follow my directions  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3585889