K821x#15complaint
Mr B says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
MYJAR provided Mr B with 8 loans between September 2015 and July 2017  with the last 
loan still outstanding. Mr Bs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 26/09/2015 26/10/2015 1 £100.00 £127.20
2 11/11/2015 26/11/2015 3 £275.00 £141.51
3 02/12/2015 22/12/2015 1 £225.00 £304.20
4 23/05/2016 27/06/2016 1 £100.00 £130.40
5 06/07/2016 26/08/2016 6 £650.00 £187.66
6 31/08/2016 26/03/2017 6 £825.00 £246.54
7 13/05/2017 26/05/2017 6 £550.00 £163.79
8 12/07/2017 Outstanding 12 £2,400.00 £359.80
In its submissions to this service MYJAR  said loan 1 may have been  unsuitable  for Mr B so 
agreed to make an offer on loan 1. This offer was a refund of interest  and charges, which it 
offered to offset  against Mr Bs outstanding  balance. This offer has been outlined  to Mr B but 
he has not accepted it.
An adjudicator reviewed the case and upheld the complaint  in part. He explained that loans 7 
and 8 shouldnt  have been given  to Mr B as his pattern of borrowing suggested that he had 
become reliant  on short-term loans. MYJAR disagreed and explained it carried out adequate 
checks. As an agreement  couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  
 for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN33353562the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think MYJAR  needed to more when it approved  loans 1 to 6. Mr B 
didnt disagree  with the adjudicators opinion about  these loans so I won be making  further 
findings on them. However, I will be considering them when looking at Mr Bs financial 
situation in general.  
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing  
if there was a point  at which MYJAR should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR  should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
7. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR  ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had taken out 7 loans in around 19 months. These  were  a 
combination of payday and instalment loans. The number  of loans Mr B had taken 
within the time period means MYJAR  ought  to have realised it was more  likely than 
not Mr B was becoming reliant on short term lending  to cover on-going shortfalls  in 
his finances. 
Mr Bs first loan in this chain of lending was for £100 and although  the amounts he 
borrowed varied in between, for loan 7 he was borrowing £550. Mr B had also settled 
loans and taken  out further borrowing within days between  many of his loans. I think 
the small breaks in between loans show that by loan 7 MYJAR ought to have seen 
that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall in his income. 
Instead its more  likely the borrowing was to meet an ongoing need and there was no 
Ref: DRN33353563indication his reliance  on short  term credit was coming to an end. This is shown by 
the fact for loan 8 Mr B was borrowing  £2,400, which is a significant  increase 
compared to his previous loans. 
MYJAR says it obtained  income verification from Mr B and it carried out proportionate 
checks which showed he could  afford  the loans. Whilst MYJAR may have obtained 
this information  from Mr B, the lending pattern shows that Mr B was falling into a 
pattern of dependency on this form of credit.
MYJAR also says Mr B settled loans  early, which means  the lending was 
appropriate.  But I dont think this means Mr B was managing his finances effectively, 
and often early settlement of a loan can be an indication of issues with debt 
management. 
I think that Mr B lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing  
him to take expensive credit intended  for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
the number  of loans  and the length  of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 7 and 8 and MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right   what MYJAR needs  to do
MYJAR shouldnt have given Mr B loans 7 and 8.
If MYJAR  has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If MYJAR  are not able to buy the debts back  then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A.)MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr B 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding  
balance, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.)MYJAR should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr B which were considered  as part of A, calculated from the date 
Mr B originally  made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.)MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr B as though they 
had been repayments  of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr B 
having made overpayments then it should  refund these  overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. MYJAR should  then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
Ref: DRN33353564D.)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However,  if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR  should try to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Mr B.
E.)The overall pattern  of Mr B borrowing for loans 7 and 8 means any information  
recorded about them is adverse, so MYJAR  should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Bs credit file. If MYJAR  has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser  
to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  MYJAR should  give
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one. If MYJAR intend  to use the 
refund to reduce  an amount  Mr B owes, you must do this after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. MYJAR  Limited  
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3335356