K821x#15complaint
Ms Ws complained that Robert Solly (trading  as Haden Welbeck)  shouldnt have referred 
her to a claims management company when she called to claim on her commercial  vehicle 
insurance policy. 
background
After Ms Ws car was hit in 2015  while parked, she called Haden  Welbeck,  her broker,  to 
make a claim. Haden Welbeck  gave her the details of a claims management company to 
help recover her losses from the other driver.
Ms W was unhappy with how the claims management company dealt with things and 
complained. She said she didnt  know  shed  been passed to a claims management company 
and wouldnt  have  used  the company if shed known. She said using  the claims 
management company  had led to her owing £2,800 for a hire car which  wouldnt have 
happened if shed  claimed through her insurer.
Haden Welbeck said it wasnt responsible for the actions of the claims management 
company or any losses Ms W had experienced from that. It thought it had done everything it 
could to help her deal with the claims management company. 
Ms W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think  
Haden Welbeck had properly explained  to Ms W that she wouldnt be claiming on her 
insurance policy. So he recommended  Haden  Welbeck pay her £100 compensation for any 
trouble shed been caused by not making  things  clearer.  But he didnt think  Haden Welbeck  
was responsible for any further losses.
Haden Welbeck agreed to pay £100 compensation but Ms W didnt agree. She said she 
owed the claims management  company £2,800 because  Haden Welbeck didnt explain how 
the claims management company would operate. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied £100 is a 
fair and amount for Haden Welbeck to pay Ms W. Ill now explain why.
Due to the time thats passed since the accident  the telephone call where Haden Welbeck  
gave Ms W the claims management companys details isnt available anymore.  In the 
timeline Haden Welbeck provided to Ms W, in response to her complaint, it says gave 
youtelephone number to call as theyre our preferred accident Management Company. It 
seems likely from that Haden Welbeck didnt let Ms W know  that she wouldnt  be claiming on 
her insurance policy or that the claims management  company werent  dealing  with the claim 
on her insurers behalf. 
Ms W said if Haden  Welbeck  had been clearer she would have claimed  through her insurer.  
Im persuaded by what shes said. I say this because by using her insurer its unlikely she 
would have had the potential to be liable for any additional costs, other than the policy  
excess. I therefore accept  Haden Welbeck not being  clear caused her unnecessary  distress  
and inconvenience  and I think its fair and reasonable  it compensates her for this. 
Ref: DRN35470452Haden Welbeck agreed to pay Ms W £100  for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience  it 
caused. But I dont  think that means  its responsible for any resulting losses.  Thats  because 
the claims management company provided Ms W with a credit hire rental  agreement  which  
she signed. And Ive also seen  the script the claims management company would have read 
out to her at the time which  set out that they were  dealing  with things on a no win no fee 
agreement. So even if Haden  Welbeck didnt give a full explanation further information was 
provided by the claims management company. 
Also, Haden  Welbeck  said the only reason Ms W had incurred  costs  was because  she didnt 
send the necessary documents back to the claims  management  company. As this concerns 
the actions of the claims management company, I cant consider that in this decision. 
However Im also not persuaded there is a direct  link between  Haden Welbecks poor 
referral and the financial loss Ms Ws experienced, so I dont hold it responsible.
For those reasons Im satisfied £100 is a fair and reasonable  amount for Haden Welbeck to 
pay Ms W for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Robert Solly (trading as 
Haden Welbeck) to pay Ms W £100 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3547045