K820x#14complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about  how CIS General Insurance  Limited handled a claim made 
on their motor insurance policy. They want the claim  removed from their records, a refund of 
their premium and compensation.
background
Mr H is a named driver on his wifes  policy. CIS contacted Mrs H after another insurer  made  
a claim for damage following an incident  in a car park. Mr H agreed that the two cars had 
made contact. But he said there  was no damage to either. CIS received engineering 
evidence from the other  insurer  and examined  Mrs Hs car. It thought the claimed  for 
damage was consistent with damage  to Mrs Hs car. So it settled the other  drivers  claim. 
Mrs H and Mr H were unhappy  with this.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought CIS had 
reasonably investigated the claim before deciding to settle it as it was entitled  to do by the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Mr H replied that there had been no damage to the cars at the time of the incident  and this 
had been agreed by both parties.  He said CIS had relied too much on the other insurers 
engineers report  and its own investigation  was insufficient. He said the marks found on his 
bumper werent from collisions  but due to 24 years  wear and tear. He thought the height of 
the damage to the other car wasnt consistent  with contact with his bumper. He asked for 
this to be measured. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a description of the circumstances of the incident. I can understand that 
he feels frustrated that CIS has settled  the other drivers claim for damage. Mr H is adamant  
that there  was no damage visible to either vehicle following their contact and he said this 
was agreed by both parties. I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs honesty  but I havent  seen any 
independent evidence to confirm what was said at the time.
The adjudicator has already explained  that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible  for 
causing the incident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
CIS is entitled under the terms  and conditions of its policy  with Mrs H to take over,  defend, or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mrs H has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
a claim,  whether  she agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision  about  how to settle a claim.  
Ref: DRN33861292I think the essential points of the incident are agreed.  Mr H was reversing  slowly  out of a 
parking space and made contact with the other  drivers stationary car. Mr H has provided 
further details  of the incident. But because Mr H as the manoeuvring  party had the greater 
duty of care CIS held him at fault. So I think CIS reasonably accepted  liability for the incident 
on Mrs Hs behalf and told her it would have to deal with any claim for repair costs. 
The other driver made  a claim for damage to her cars door.  Mr H said thered been no 
damage evident at the time.  But CIS still needed  to consider the claim.  I can see that it 
disputed liability and asked for evidence of damage from the other  insurer. 
There were no photographs taken at the time,  no independent witnesses or CCTV footage 
for CIS to consider.  CIS considered the engineers report provided  by the other  insurer. CIS 
had an independent engineer inspect Mr Hs car. I think this was fair and reasonable as its 
what Id require in the case of a dispute  about  damage. The report said that there were three 
areas of damage  on Mrs Hs cars bumper. CIS in house engineer thought any of these 
could have been caused by the incident.  The engineer didnt say how old the damage was. 
Mr H said the height of the damage  to the door was higher than the damage  to his bumper. 
So CIS in-house engineer carried out a consistency  report  between the alleged  damage to 
the other drivers car and Mrs Hs car. In his report, the engineer  compared  the relative 
heights of the damage to the other  drivers door and Mr Hs bumper and he concluded that 
they were consistent.  Mr H thought he should  measure this exactly.  But I think it was 
reasonable for CIS to rely on its expert engineers considered view.  I havent seen any 
conflicting expert evidence to counter  this that CIS should have considered. 
So I think CIS reasonably  investigated the incident  and considered  the evidence before 
deciding to accept  liability and settle the claim.  I think its entitled  to do this by the policy  
terms and conditions. So I cant say that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I dont  
require it to remove the claim from Mrs H and Mr Hs records or pay them  any 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3386129