K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) wont  pay a claim he made under his 
home emergency insurance policy when his boiler  broke down. He is represented  in bringing 
this complaint by his wife, Mrs S.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 March  2019, a copy  of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Lloyds said it would  accept my provisional  decision.
Mrs S said that their paperwork from Lloyds at the time they first took out the insurance  
included a letter saying  Also, because your boiler is relatively new, if we cant  repair it within  
12 years  of its installation, well replace it absolutely free saving you another  £2,500. She 
said this supported Mr Ss complaint.
I asked the investigator  to point out that the following  words  came after the sentence Mrs S 
had quoted  Please  see the brochure  enclosed.  The investigator asked if Mr S still had 
this brochure.  When this was produced, the investigator pointed  out that it contained the 
following exclusion:
3.4 The boiler  will not be replaced if spare  parts are not available  for the make/model of 
boiler specified in the Schedule during  the term of cover.
Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that:
it must  surely be a requirement  of a supplier  to make sure that all parts are available  
during the length  of an insurance period;
10 years  wasnt  an excessive  age for a boiler;
Lloyds shouldnt have  sold insurance if parts to permit a claim to be made were no 
longer available. She felt they had been  paying  for something they couldnt claim on;
the exclusion should have been in larger print; and
she didnt think Lloyds should be able to get away with doing  no repair after 
discovering the condensate leak in September 2017
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds is an insurer, not a supplier of boilers. When the policy commenced in 2014,  the 
boiler had already been in place  some 7 years.
Lloyds provides insurance in respect  of boilers  provided by many different manufacturers.  It 
isnt in a position to tell manufacturers  for how long they should carry spares for their boilers. 
And I dont  think its reasonable to say it should know at any time what  the spares availability 
is for any particular age, type, or make  of boiler.
Ref: DRN33008332Its not unusual  for policies of this kind to contain limitations on the length of time for which a 
boiler replacement  provision will apply.  I think the exclusion in this case was set out 
sufficiently clearly in the policy terms.
Lloyds has acknowledged that it should  have raised  the issue  of the condensate leak with 
Mr S when its engineer  found it in September 2017.  But as parts  to repair this werent 
available then, Lloyds  wouldnt  have been  required to repair  or replace the boiler then. So I 
cant say Mr S was materially worse off when  the boiler failed completely three  months later 
in December 2017.
All in all, my view remains as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order the Society  of Lloyds  to pay   
Mr S compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN33008333COPY  OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 6 March 2019
complaint
Mr S complains that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) wont pay a claim he made  under  his home  
emergency insurance  policy  when his boiler broke  down. He is represented  in bringing this complaint 
by his wife, Mrs S.
background
Mr S had home emergency policy with Lloyds covering  repairs to his boiler since 2 November 2014. 
His boiler was then some  7 years old.
Mr S had his boiler serviced by Lloyds approved  engineer in September  2017. The engineer noted  on 
the service form evidence  of condensate leak. However he didnt suggest any further work or 
investigation.
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs S noticed  water leaking  from the boiler. They called  on Lloyds under 
the policy.  The engineer  who came said there was corrosion from the boiler casing.  An engineer from 
the manufacturer came  and said the boiler couldnt be repaired and shut it down. 
Mr S asked Lloyds to contribute towards the cost of a replacement boiler as the existing boiler was 
beyond economic repair  and the policy  provided  for a contribution of up to £2,500 if the boiler was up 
to 10 years old. Lloyds thought  the boiler was in fact more than 10 years old and so refused their 
claim. Mr and Mrs S replaced the boiler at a cost of more than £3,000 and then complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  She said there had been 
unjustifiable delay on the part of Lloyds  in making  up its mind on whether, because of its age, the 
boiler was covered and if so for what amount.  She thought that, on the facts, the boiler fell within the 
boiler replacement provisions of the policy, and that the amount payable was £2,500.
She recommended  that Lloyds pay Mr S:
£2,500, being the maximum  amount for boiler  replacement cover under the policy;
Interest at the annual rate of 8% simple on this amount from the date of the claim  until 
settlement; and
£300  as compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delays by Lloyds  had caused 
Mr S.
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendation. Lloyds responded  to say, in summary,  that it 
accepted that the issue should have been resolved after the boiler service  in September  2017,  and 
that Mr S had the benefit of a boiler  replacement  guarantee under  his policy. 
However it pointed to the following part of the boiler replacement guarantee in the policy under the 
heading What we do not cover under this section:
3.4 The boiler will not be replaced if spare parts are not available for the make/model of boiler  
specified in the Policy  Schedule.
Lloyds produced  an email  from the manufacturer of the boiler confirming that the parts which had 
failed were never available as spare parts,  and this also applied in September 2017. So it said it had 
correctly declined to make  a contribution to a replacement boiler under  the policy  terms and 
conditions, and shouldnt be required to pay Mr S £2,500 plus interest.
It did agree that it should have dealt with the issue  in September 2017. So it agreed to pay Mr S 
compensation of £300 for the stress in inconvenience its delays had caused him.
Ref: DRN33008334my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that there  was unreasonable delay on the part of Lloyds in coming to its decision that it 
wouldnt make any contribution under  the policy  to a replacement boiler.  And there was confusion  in 
the reasons it gave for its decision. It spent  time arguing, wrongly, that the age of the boiler meant it 
was outside the boiler replacement  provisions  of the policy.
Lloyds has now pointed to the provision  in the policy  terms which I have  set out above.  I also note the 
same wording is set out on page  7 of the policy booklet. So I agree that in the circumstances which 
happened Lloyds wasnt required to make a contribution towards  a replacement boiler  under the 
policy terms, and this would have been  the case even if it had dealt properly with the issue in 
September 2017.
Lloyds has accepted that it didnt deal properly  with the issue after the boiler service in September 
2017. It has agreed  to pay Mr S compensation of £300  for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
Mr S. I think  this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr S or from Lloyds by 6 April 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to order 
the Society of Lloyds to pay Mr S compensation of £300.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3300833