K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs T says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with our adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs T aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs T applied for her card and 
PPI but FICL has provided a copy of the available paperwork. The application form Mrs T 
completed when  she applied for her card had a separate section  for PPI with equally 
prominent options to either accept or decline the policy. The option to take the policy  has 
been selected and the application form has been  signed by Mrs T in agreement  with the 
selections that were  made. With this in mind  I think FICL made  it clear  that Mrs T didnt have 
to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs T got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ts 
sick pay, and for longer than she would  have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
Ref: DRN39785712Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said - including that FICL didnt make her aware  she 
could take PPI elsewhere. But FICL didnt have  to make Mrs T aware of policies that were 
available from other providers. So these points dont  change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3978571