K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the PPI by phone in 2003 at the same time as taking a loan. He was employed 
at the time as an insurance broker, had been there  four months and had been employed in 
the same  line of work elsewhere immediately before that. Hes told us he was entitled to 
statutory sick pay and didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay his loan with if couldnt 
work. From what hes told us, Mr B was in good  health at the time of the sale and hadnt had 
any health issues, although hes told us of health issues  he had after the sale.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £287.75  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over 30 months and the policy term matched  that of the loan. The monthly  loan 
repayment was £117.50 with the PPI costing an additional £10.56 making  the total monthly 
repayment £128.06. 
The PPI provided  cover for Mr B for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful claim, it offered to pay his total monthly 
repayments for up to 12 months for unemployment  and up to the remaining loan term for 
disability. The life cover  would, subject to its terms, repay the loan upon death. 
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in 2004. Mr Bs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Bs 
representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Bs representative believes there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Nationwide  should have told Mr B 
about the poor value;
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
Ref: DRN32735952several reasons.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN32735953The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent he suffered loss or damage and what  
I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional. What  Ive seen of Nationwides sales  
process at the time of Mr Bs sale suggests Nationwide wouldve normally  made this clear  
by quoting with and without the PPI, for example.
Mr B has said he had no interest in PPI and has said it was just included as part of the loan 
package. Ive considered this carefully.  Nationwide hasnt a recording of the sales  call, which 
isnt surprising given  the call took place  around 15 years before Mr Bs complaint. For the 
same reason, it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Bs recollections of the call were no longer vivid. 
Ref: DRN32735954With this in mind, what Mr B recalls  isnt, on its own, enough to make  me think  Nationwide 
didnt give him a choice about the PPI like I think it normally wouldve. And I havent seen 
anything else to make me think Nationwide didnt give Mr B a choice about the insurance. 
Nationwide has also provided  a copy of Mr Bs printed loan agreement,  which set out details 
of the PPI. I expect the main loan details  reflect the choices Mr B made during the call about 
how much  to borrow, over what period and so on  and, taking into account what  Ive said 
above, I think its likely this also applies to the PPI, with inclusion of the PPI on the printed  
agreement reflecting a choice  Mr B made  during the phone call.
I reach  this conclusion also bearing in mind that the agreement - which  Mr B signed after the 
call to take the loan - refers to the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance  and sets out the PPI 
costs separately from the main loan costs. So I think it likely Mr B signed the agreement 
aware he was taking an optional insurance  with a separate cost.
Mr B hasnt said anything to make me think he was pressured into opting for the PPI. Taking 
everything into account and with all Ive said above  in mind, on balance I think its more likely 
Mr B knew  the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure.
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Taking  into account also what  Mr B 
has said, Im persuaded Nationwide didnt provide advice. This means it didnt have to check  
if the PPI was suitable for Mr B. Instead, it had to give Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether  to take the policy,  
including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect  his payments if he were  unable to work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this conclusion because  I think it 
unlikely Mr B wouldve  taken the policy without any sense of what it was for. And I think Mr B 
knew the single premium being added  to the loan was £287.75,  the interest added to the 
premium was £29.05,  the total cost was £316.80  and the monthly cost was £10.56 (as this 
information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr B signed).  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr B agreed to take the policy.  
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN32735955In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Bs representative  considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr B has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Nationwide ought  to have done either.
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent  did he 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr B. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not he would have 
still taken the policy,  had Nationwide done  things properly.  
Mr B says he would  not have taken it. His representatives believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides, and the evidence relating to this, carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr B had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take this policy. So I consider its reasonable to conclude 
he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr B thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr B was given  about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit,  limitations  and exclusions, 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
While Im not persuaded Nationwide made  clear  exactly what Mr B would get if he made a 
successful claim, I think its unlikely his expectations  about what the policy would pay in the 
event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan payments) were significantly different 
to what the policy actually did.
Ref: DRN32735956Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability or unemployment  related to health issues Mr B 
knew or should reasonably have known of at the policy  start;  or related to health issues  
for which he received  advice or was referred  for investigation in the 12 months before the 
start and which recurred in the first 12 months  of the policy;
To be eligible  for disability, Mr B had to be not only unable to do his own job but unable  
to do any work;  and
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr B wasnt  
a permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt  have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think he still had some  good reasons to 
take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable to do his own 
job but unable  to do any work, it might have played  into his thinking about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although, given his circumstances  and 
limited other means, on balance I think he wouldve still been interested  in taking the cover.
The PPI did provide a pro-rata refund if the loan were repaid early  the terms say in that 
situation you will be entitled to a refund of premium,  calculated on a pro-rata basis. So the 
PPI provided flexibility  if Mr B decided to repay  the loan early.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr B wouldve still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought 
he was getting  and its benefits  wouldve help him manage the consequences  were he made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or sickness.  In the circumstances I consider  it 
more likely than not he wouldve  taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations  
on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN32735957That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred.
 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he wouldve been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible  he wouldnt have taken the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he wouldve still taken 
the policy had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Nationwide should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better 
position than he wouldve  been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take, and the 
remedy a court might award, if it were to find Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
In arriving at my conclusions Ive carefully  considered all Mr B has said and the perspectives 
hes offered in the light of his experience as a qualified insurance broker,  including what hes 
said about the pricing and scope of the cover and the details Nationwide  didnt give him. Ive 
discussed these  areas  and the conclusions Ive reached on them in some detail above. 
Im grateful  to Mr B for his points and for the prompt assistance and courtesy hes offered us 
throughout.
Ref: DRN32735958my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3273595