K821x#15complaint
The complaint concerns  Aviva Insurance Limiteds rejection of Mrs S claim under  her home 
insurance policy. Mrs S made  the claim to Aviva  in February 2018 after water flooded her 
basement. 
background
Aviva said the damage couldnt be considered under  storm or flood because  no weather 
events were recorded in the area around  the time of the loss. It considered if damage  was 
caused from a leaking  pipe, but said no water  was escaping from the supply in Mrs S home, 
or the immediate vicinity.  Aviva said damage  to the property was only evident after a period 
of heavy rainfall which suggests a high-water table problem. It said the claim would be 
considered under accidental damage. But it pointed out that this section of the home 
insurance policy excluded  anything that happens gradually, and damage caused  by water 
entering the home regardless  of how this happened. 
Aviva explained  that its findings indicated the damage was due to the high-water table in the 
area and a failed  tanking  system.  But it said many  issues could be contributing,  including the 
construction of the basement and the design of the waterproofing system. 
Our investigator expressed  the opinion that Mrs S claim  should  be covered under the policy 
peril of flood. She felt that water had built up in the basement and pooled across  the wall, by 
the skirting board. She noted there  had been no problem with the basement  for some time 
and it had been watertight. So, she wasnt persuaded  the damage  was due to failed tanking. 
Aviva initially  agreed with our findings and our investigator passed this news  on to Mrs S. 
But then Aviva said it wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  It said it was 
concerned no consideration had been  given to the construction of the basement and the 
design and installation of the waterproofing  system. Aviva said these were  critical to its 
decision. It considers  that the existing  water proofing  system has not been designed and 
installed correctly. 
I issued a provisional decision on 4 September 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or in 
dispute, as some of it is here, I need  to reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  
that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the evidence  that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs S policy  doesnt define the word flood. We take the view that a flood does not have to 
be a sudden or violent event; water building up slowly and steadily  can constitute a flood.  
And water entering the property through the floor or the walls (as reported by Mrs S when 
she registered the claim) can also constitute an incident of flooding. The key factor is that 
water has built up, regardless of where it came from. 
On balance, in the particular circumstances  of this claim and based  on the evidence Ive 
seen, I am satisfied that water did build up. Avivas claim report  form refers to water oozing 
up and water puddling. And the photos  appear to show  water marks on the wall and 
skirting board.  So I agree with our investigator that the claim should  be dealt with by Aviva 
under the policy  peril of flood, not accidental damage as it had previously  suggested.  
Ref: DRN32153762Aviva says the construction of the basement and the design and installation  of the 
waterproofing system are critical  to its decision on the claim. Yet in my opinion, it doesnt  
necessarily come across like that in its final response to the complaint. Aviva refers to many 
other issues that could be contributing. Were it so critical, I would have expected these  
issues to be at the forefront of Avivas investigation of the claim (and indeed, a similar claim 
Mrs S made back in 2012). 
I have reviewed all of the professional opinion on file. Ill abbreviate the name of the
companies because  we publish final decisions on our website. I believe Mrs S provided 
information from companies R, Pre and Pro. Aviva commissioned a report  from company S. 
And there are investigation notes on file from company  B. Ill summarise some of the 
information in these reports:
Company Rs quotation  9 February 2018  its thoughts were  the cause of the water  ingress  
into the basement were likely as a result of freeze  thaw cycles which caused damage to the 
external waterproofing membrane.
Company B, 27 February 2018   it said given the age of the extension to the property  it is 
fair to assume that all required DPMs (Damp  Proof Membranes) are in place. Information 
received would suggest that the basement was built to current construction codes and 
NHBC, however  at this time we have no access to the construction plans. Company B 
concluded that there is a breach to any DPM/DPC  allowing clean water to enter the property 
through the lower walls or floor.
Pre letter  2 March  2018  gave a brief synopsis of its thoughts, including  the waterproofing 
system for the basement. It acknowledged there were no technical  drawings available  to 
show the construction details or waterproofing  details for the basement.  However, it gave  its 
thoughts on how the basement may have been waterproofed and described it as normal 
practice. Pre said given the fact that an external waterproofing was installed some years 
ago and has only recently leaked, it seems  likely  that some form of change in external  
ground water conditions may have occurred to cause this.
Pro letter  7 March  2018  said given my experience with ICF built structures  and the fact 
the buildings basement has been  free from water ingress until fairly recently  I am of the 
opinion water ingress is due to defects in the external waterproofing system with such  
brought about by recent adverse weather conditions, a rise in the localities water table and 
as a bi product of a continual freeze thaw process.
Company S report 4 May 2018  said Mrs S has confirmed  during our survey that the 
original basement  build was an ICF construction and that the adjoining area below the 
decking which she confirmed as a reinforced concrete construction was added  just after.  
She has no drawings or written design  available to present to us. We therefore do not know  
what waterproofing treatment was applied to the structures  walls and floor or to the decking  
where the structure extends beyond the above ground floor footprint. It continued, Mrs S 
told me during  the survey  that this was the first and only time there was an issue  with the 
ICF constructions degree of water tightness although a sump  and some waterproofing 
treatment had been installed to the adjoining room situated to under the decking area in 
2012.
Company S said according to information  available in the public domain on the planning 
portal the basement build  is to be used as a non-habitable space and as storage only.  
Ref: DRN32153763Because it is designed as storage and because we have no knowledge of the initial  design 
we cant assume that the waterproofing installation has been carried out to BS8102  grade 3, 
i.e. a habitable environment as defined  on table 2 of BS8102.  It could have been designed 
and installed  to a grade 1 or grade 2 environment for storage or plant  which allows some 
seepage or tolerates some water  vapour . It then offered some scenarios as to why some 
seepage had occurred. This included that there may not be a sufficient barrier  of defence 
against groundwater.
Company S referred to the relative  location of the internal seepage and made  the
assumption that the light well voids could have  been overwhelmed by a deluge of
groundwater. It also reported  the side basement area under the decking was found to be 
very damp and any existing waterproofing system to this area is likely to have been 
breached and failed.
So we have  various opinions from the companies representatives, based on their experience  
and knowledge.  What we do know is that the basement was watertight before and had been 
since 2012. As I understand it, the property construction was completed  around 2009/2010.  
Given this, I am persuaded that the basement was water proofed, although the design of the 
system is not clear. 
Aviva believes  the water  proofing  system  may not have been designed and installed
correctly. Theres no definitive  evidence of that. And Aviva hasnt supplied  us with
information from the planning portal, referred to by Company S. We werent able to locate 
this information  on the planning  portal.  However, I do acknowledge Avivas point that there 
have been two failures to the basement since the property construction  was completed.
Despite this, I am persuaded that Mrs S still has a legitimate claim for flood. Thats  because  
there is no exclusion under storm or flood for faulty  design. There is under accidental  
damage, but this is not an accidental  damage  claim. And I cant  see, from the copy of the 
policy booklet supplied  to us by Aviva, that faulty  design is a general exclusion under the 
policy.
In addition, Aviva accepted the 2012  claim.  Its not clear if it followed up the issue  of the 
construction of the basement and the design and installation of the waterproofing system 
back then. If the matter was so critical to Aviva, I would have expected  it to fully investigate  
this on the earlier claim.
I dont believe Aviva has sufficient grounds to deny this claim.  Generally the professional 
opinion seems to be that the existing waterproofing was breached and overwhelmed by the 
volume of water. On balance, I believe there was a change in the ground  water conditions. 
And this build-up  of water caused  damage  to Mrs S property.
This means  Aviva will need  to settle  Mrs S claim in accordance with the policy terms  
Settling buildings  claims and Settling contents  claims. And Aviva will know it should  put 
Mrs S back  in the position she was in before the insured event took place. Any repair  that it 
may undertake on the buildings claim should  be lasting and effective. The repairs  may need 
to include waterproofing  of the basement if Aviva believes the basement might  flood again, 
after a short period of time, or on a regular basis. I realise this does not fall within  the cover 
provided by the policy. But Aviva  will not have  met its obligations under the terms of the 
policy if it carries  out or pays for a repair that is ineffective and doesnt last very long. So this 
must form part of Avivas consideration when it settles the claim.
Ref: DRN32153764My provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint about  Aviva Insurance  
Limited and direct it to settle Mrs S flood  claim.
If this results  in a cash settlement this should  include  interest  at a rate of 8% simple  interest  
from the date of the claim. And if Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much 
it has taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
I make  no other award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
In response to my provisional decision,  in summary, Aviva said; 
Company R and company Pro referred to a freeze thaw  process causing the water 
ingress in the basement. The damage would be excluded because frost damage  isnt 
covered under the storm or flood peril. It would  also be excluded  under the General  
Conditions section  of the policy wording as wear and tear or damage which happens 
gradually over time arent covered. 
Planning permission for the basement was not granted until April 2009 and it believes 
the construction was completed sometime during  2011. The first failure to the 
basement occurred  in April 2012. 
During its investigations Aviva identified there  were issues with the planning and 
construction of the property. When planning  approval was given, this included the 
basement for use as a storage area and it was not granted for habitable space 
usage. 
It fails to understand why it should  install an internal  waterproofing system which 
complies with BS8102  grade 3, when this was not installed  to the property when  built.
It agreed to accept the damage  to the internal finishes as part of the claim.  Aviva said 
that, in order to facilitate the repairs, the damaged  internal finishes  would need  to be 
stripped and at this point it proposed to undertake further investigations in order  to 
determine what waterproofing system  was originally installed and the cause of the 
failure. Once its investigations are complete and it knows  the exact cause  of the 
damage, it will issue a cash settlement for its policy  liabilities.
In response to my provisional decision,  in summary, Mrs S; 
Sent us a copy of an email from her local council which  said the excavation and 
basement site inspection were carried out and there  were  no noted  defects  at the 
time. Mrs S said as far as the council was concerned the proper tanking and 
waterproofing had been carried out and the next stage of the build  was approved.  
Said shed had the strip out works  completed  to the internal finishes. The company 
that inspected  the construction  noted  it was impossible to determine what 
waterproofing was originally installed and the only way to ensure this incident  would 
not happen again was to install an internal water proofing system.  
Believes that Aviva  are just repeating everything  that has already been addressed. 
Ref: DRN32153765Said shed had no alternative but to get the repairs  done  given  the situation with her 
family, including existing medical conditions, which were  exacerbated  by the way 
Aviva had left her property. Mrs S said she felt very let down  by Aviva and the matter 
has been extremely stressful.  
Sent us photos of the condition of her home. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
It is my view, from the professional opinion Ive seen, it is most likely  there was a change in 
the ground water conditions (a rise in the water table) and this build-up  of water caused  
damage to Mrs S property. Indeed, I note from the initial water mitigation inspection,  Avivas 
loss adjuster said the source of the water was flooding due to increased saturation to the 
water table in the area. So, I am satisfied the insured peril to be applied  in this case  is flood, 
because there was a build-up of water. I am not persuaded Mrs S basement was damaged  
as a result  of frost.  Therefore, that policy exclusion, under the storm and flood peril, would 
not apply. 
I dont accept Avivas suggestion the claim would be excluded under the General Conditions  
section of the policy. That section of the cover says,  your policy  is intended to cover you 
against unforeseen events like fire or theft. It does  not cover wear  and tear or damage which 
happens gradually over a period of time. The flood was an unforeseen event. The water 
appears to have entered the property at floor level.  So, its not unreasonable  this may have 
gone unnoticed until water began to ooze up and puddle around  the skirting  board. In these 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to apply an exclusion for gradual damage. And wear and 
tear are damage that naturally and inevitably occur  as a result of normal wear or aging. But 
the damage to Mrs S basement  was not down to normal wear  or aging.  
I acknowledge the points both parties have made concerning the construction  and 
waterproofing of the basement. Yet there is still no definitive evidence  of the nature of the 
water proofing system  originally used in the basement. And theres  no exclusion for defective 
design anyway,  in the insurance policy, under the storm or flood peril. So, Aviva hasnt done 
enough now to deny the claim. I also maintain if the construction and waterproofing of the 
basement was so important to Aviva, they should have been fully investigated  as part of the 
2012 claim and been  more prominent in its final response to this complaint. 
It is disappointing to note that Aviva  supplied us with new evidence  on this case (for 
example, from the planning portal) at a very late stage and after the provisional decision had 
been issued.  We specifically asked Aviva back in August 2019 if it had such information to 
give us. It said, we have sent you all the info we have re this case (sic).  
Despite this and the other  points Aviva made in response to the provisional decision,  it has 
agreed to accept the damage to the internal finishes in Mrs S basement as part of the claim. 
I believe thats the right way forward. Weve let Mrs S know.  Mrs S will need  to supply Aviva 
with invoices and receipts for the work shes had done, in order  that it can determine the 
extent of its liability under the policy.   
Ref: DRN32153766I should clarify that I have not directly  instructed Aviva  to install  an internal waterproofing 
system which complies with BS8102 grade 3. In my provisional decision I said that any 
repair that is undertaken should be effective and last and Aviva would need  to consider this 
and the issue  of waterproofing  when  it settles the claim.  
The basement was watertight between 2012 and 2018. Mrs S indicated resin  injection 
treatment was undertaken on the 2012  claim.  Aviva will need to consider what would 
constitute an effective  repair  on this claim and settle  the matter  accordingly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Aviva  Insurance Limited and I direct it 
to settle Mrs S flood  claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of her home 
insurance policy. 
If this results  in a cash settlement this should  include  interest  at a rate of 8% simple  interest  
from the date of the claim, until settlement of the claim. And if Aviva  Insurance Limited 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if 
appropriate.
I make  no other award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Paul Phillips 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3215376