K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
He says that insufficient checks  were carried out and if a full assessment  had been  done his 
applications would have been declined because  the loans were  unaffordable.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  provided to Mr C between  May 2017 and 
September 2017. A summary of Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 21/05/2017 20/06/2017 6 £400.00 £132.93
2 15/05/2017 21/08/2017 6 £150.00 £50.00
3 01/09/2017 25/10/2017 6 £200.00 £61.79
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint and thought Sunny had treated  Mr C fairly when it 
provided the first two instalment  loans. But he said that he didnt think the third loan should  
have been provided. He said that at that time Mr C wasnt  able to sustainably meet his loan 
repayment amount.
Sunny disagreed with this view. It said it was sorry that Mr C feels he was unable  to afford 
the credit, but it didnt agree to uphold his complaint. It says that based  on its records, the 
information Mr C provided, and the information it obtained from credit reference agency  
searches means  it acted  responsibly. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  factors, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN36248362the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. And after having done so, Ive decided that 
Sunny shouldnt have provided  Mr C with the third instalment loan. I will explain why. 
Sunny told us it carried out various checks before it lent to Mr C, including  looking at his 
income, his expenditure and carrying out a credit check  to assess  his creditworthiness.  It 
says all the information showed that Mr C would be able to make the loan repayments he 
was committing to and they were  affordable.  On balance,  I dont  think  I can safely say that 
Sunny failed to do enough  when it was making  its assessment about the first two loans. At 
this time, Mr C was a new customer and I think it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on the 
information he provided.
Sunny asked the same questions and did the same checks  for loan 3 as it had for loans 1 
and 2. But on this occasion the monthly  income and expenditure figures supplied by Mr C 
were different. He told Sunny that his income was £1,100 and his expenditure was £1,000.  
This means  that he was left with £100  each month from which to repay loan 3. The monthly 
instalments for loan 3 were £62. So, after Mr C repaid his loan, he would only have £38 left 
each month  from which to meet any other unusual or unexpected expenditure - for a period 
of six months. Ive explained above  that although a loan may appear  affordable  on a pounds  
and pence basis  it doesnt necessarily mean that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in 
a sustainable  manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings. 
Ref: DRN36248363As Sunny obtained this information  I dont think it was reasonable for it to conclude that Mr C 
was going to be able to sustainably repay  loan 3 given how little money hed be left with 
each month  for six months.
Sunny responded to our adjudicator on this point. It says Sunny customers can choose  to 
repay more  than the contractual amount if they wish to repay their loan earlier during the 
online application process. In this instance,  our records show the customer  chose to repay 
more than the contractual amount. It seems  he made two payments of £93.94  and a final 
payment of £78.27. 
Sunny then added  that if the data was accurate and [Mr C] actually did have very little 
disposable income remaining (as you have  concluded), this does not appear to be consistent 
with why he chose  to repay more than the contractual amount and why both payments 
totalling £93.94 each  were successfully made via the CPA that had been set up. We also 
have no evidence on our customer system  of any detriment to him after Loan 3 was granted.  
Finally, if the loan was not affordable, he had an opportunity to notify  us when he called to 
repay his loan in full over the phone  on 25 Oct 2017.  He did not do this. Taking all of the 
above into account, we consider Loan 3 was affordable to him, despite the 
income/expenditure figures we captured  in the loan summary sheet.  
So despite the information Sunny had in which Mr C declared he would only have £38 per 
month left after the contractual repayments were made, it  in effect - went  on to conclude 
that the loan would be sustainably repaid  because  he indicated  hed repay  more.  The fact 
that Mr C did go on to repay the loan successfully doesnt mean  he did so from sustainable 
sources. And if he had to borrow  from elsewhere to meet his repayments  which  given the 
figures hed declared  would suggest was more than likely  that wasnt  sustainable.
In these circumstances I'm not persuaded that Sunny acted responsibly when it provided 
loan 3 to Mr C.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 3 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Cs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN36248364my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3624836