K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains that National Savings and Investments  cashed  in her premium  bonds early 
which meant she missed out on the May 2019  prize draw. 
Background
On 25 April 2019 NS&I  received  an instruction  to cash in £10,000  of premium bonds after 
the May 2019  prize draw. But, due to an error  at NS&I, Mrs S premium bonds were  cashed 
in on 25 April 2019 and the funds transferred to her. On 29 April 2019  Mrs S complained to 
NS&I and pointed  out she would miss the May 2019 prize draw. 
NS&I responded  on 2 May 2019  and agreed it had made a mistake. NS&I  apologised and 
paid Mrs S £75. NS&I said that because of the way it generates numbers for its prize draws 
it was able to check  whether  Mrs S premium bonds  would  have  won,  despite having been  
cashed in. NS&I confirmed Mrs S premium bonds  would not have won, even if they hadnt 
been cashed in before the May 2019 prize draw. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. She said that 
NS&I had provided systems evidence to show Mrs S premium bonds wouldnt have won the 
May 2019 prize  draw. Mrs S reviewed the systems evidence but didnt feel it conclusively 
proved she wouldnt  have won and asked to appeal her complaint. As a result,  the case  has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agree that NS&I shouldnt have cashed  in Mrs S premium bonds on 
25 April 2019. NS&I  has apologised  and paid Mrs S £75 for the error. NS&I  also claims that 
even if Mrs S premium bonds  had remained in place  for the May 2019 prize draw  she 
wouldnt have won. Mrs S remains  concerned that the evidence supplied  by NS&I doesnt  
conclusively show she wouldnt have won. 
Ive reviewed everything NS&I has told us about  how it generates the winning numbers for 
its premium bond prize draws. Ive also looked  at the systems evidence NS&I has provided. 
NS&I says its prize draw numbers are generated at random and arent  restricted to active or 
eligible bond numbers.  As a result, bond  numbers that have already been cashed  in can be 
checked against the numbers generated for the prize draw  to see whether they would have 
won. I appreciate Mrs S is concerned that NS&I cant check bonds that have  been  cashed in 
against its prize draw winners  but Im satisfied its systems can do that. 
Where evidence is incomplete or inconclusive Ill based my decision on the balance of 
probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened based  on the available 
evidence and information. 
NS&I sent us a screen print from its systems showing its search for Mrs S cashed in 
premium bond numbers. I note Mrs S says the systems  evidence  isnt conclusive and wants  
to see a list of the winning numbers for May 2019s draw. But Im satisfied  NS&I  has sent us 
a screen print showing the system  it uses to search for winning premium  bonds. 
Ref: DRN32351342Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied NS&I has shown  Mrs S premium  
bonds wouldnt have  won in May 2019  even if they hadnt been  cashed in. As a result,  I 
havent found there was a financial loss for Mrs S.
NS&I paid Mrs S £75 because of the way it handled  her cash  in request. I think  £75 fairly 
reflects the impact of NS&Is error on Mrs S. As Im satisfied NS&I has dealt  with Mrs S 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3235134