K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that TM Advances Limited was irresponsible to approve  his loan.
background
Mr K took out a fixed sum loan with TM Advances on 2 November  2017.  He borrowed 
£3,000 and needed to repay £297.50 per month for 24 months with the last payment due on 
10 November 2019.
Mr K says that he was already in debt when TM Advances approved the loan. He says the 
high interest rate caused him to get into further debt and he had to enter into a debt 
management plan shortly afterwards as a result.
TM Advances says it asked Mr K about  his income  and expenditure and checked his credit 
file before it found the repayments  to be affordable. It says Mr K said the loan was for car 
repairs and to settle existing short-term loans.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied 
that TM Advancess checks went far enough,  but she didnt consider it would have made  a 
different lending decision had it seen further information from proportionate checks.
Mr K responded to say he couldnt  understand why this case wasnt  upheld as hed had 
other cases upheld  from around the same time.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr K and to TM Advances on 11 March 2021.  The relevant 
guidelines were  outlined in the provisional decision, so I wont  repeat them here.
I summarise my findings:
I wasnt satisfied TM Advancess checks  went  far enough because:
oThe loan was over a term of 24 months and TM Advances needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable  over that period;
oI didnt see any evidence that TM Advances verified Mr Ks declared income;
oMr Ks credit  file showed:
He had two defaults on his record, although the more recent one was 
from more than three years earlier;
Mr K had four active credit cards, of which three were  at or slightly above 
their limit, including two hed only taken  out earlier in 2017;
Mr K was paying only the minimum monthly  repayments on his credit 
cards;
Between May 2017 and September  2017,  Mr K had borrowed around 
£10,500 from four high cost lenders;
Ref: DRN34521062oTM Advancess  estimate of Mr Ks credit expenditure showed he was committed  
to making monthly payments of around  38% of his net monthly  income towards 
his existing debt;
I acknowledged that one of the reasons for the new loan was debt 
consolidation, but, even with two of the accounts settled as planned, 
Mr Ks consumer  credit commitment would increase to 43% of net income  
with the new loan;
oGiven the high expenditure on credit, I found  TM Advances also needed to verify 
Mr Ks declared expenditure on rent and other living expenses;
oTM Advances could see from Mr Ks credit  file that he had a history  of taking out 
short-term loans,  and so I considered it would have been prudent  to also check 
whether hed taken  out any more recent loans of that nature that may not yet be 
reflected on his credit file;
oTM Advances calculated Mr K had a disposable  income of around  £400 per 
month. Once the loan repayment  of almost £300  had been paid each month, this 
left Mr K with a little over £100 per month  for unforeseen expenses over a loan 
term of 24 months.
So I considered  proportionate checks should have included TM Advances  ensuring  it 
had a thorough  understanding  of Mr Ks financial circumstances before  it approved  the 
loan:
oA more recent credit file showed Mr K took out a further four high cost loans in 
September 2017 and October  2017  that werent reflected on the credit  record  
assessed by TM Advances  at the time. The combined scheduled repayments on 
those was around £250.
I considered it unlikely that Mr K would have been able to sustainably  make repayments 
of £297.50 per month because:
oIts likely  that Mr Ks actual monthly  disposable income was less than the 
repayment;
Although I couldnt verify Mr Ks income  and expenditure  from bank 
statements, he would have had no real need  for various short-term  loans 
if his disposable  income was the £400  per month  that TM Advances 
calculated;
Even based on Mr Ks declared  figures and his known commitments  on 
credit expenditure, his disposable  income was only around £150  per 
month;
oThere were  clear  indications he was already struggling to manage his money:
His combined credit commitments would actually  have been over 50% of 
his declared income with the new loan;
His credit  file showed he wasnt making  any real inroads to his existing 
debt levels;
There was a history of dependency  on short-term lending.
Ref: DRN34521063I noted Mr K made only his first payment on time and that was at least partly funded by 
additional high cost loans: he took out a further eight of them between the TM Advances 
loan and the end of 2017, of which two, totalling  over £2,500, were  taken out within two 
weeks of the TM Advances  loan.
Altogether I was satisfied it was irresponsible for TM Advances to have approved Mr Ks 
loan.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision.
TM Advances responded to say, in summary,  that just because  Mr K had had other cases 
upheld, it didnt follow that this case should  have the same  outcome. It said the adjudicator 
had seen bank  statements  and the results  from a credit search and didnt find the complaint 
should be upheld,  mainly because he was maintaining  his other credit accounts. TM 
Advances said this was a strong  indication  Mr K could maintain the new loan, especially as it 
would have enabled consolidation of other accounts. It adds that it has now accepted Mr Ks 
debt management  plan and that he is making  monthly payments.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I need to take into account the relevant 
rules, guidance  and good industry practice  as outlined in my provisional decision.
I accept what TM Advances says about other  cases Mr K says hes had upheld. As with all 
complaints, I have considered this one based upon  its own merits and the other cases have 
had no bearing  on my findings.
Much like the adjudicator,  I found that TM Advances needed to have a thorough 
understanding of Mr Ks financial  situation before approving the loan. I acknowledge that 
Mr K appeared to be maintaining his other  credit  accounts, but it was apparent in the lead up 
to the loan that he was using one loan to re-pay another. Even  though the TM Advances 
loan was to be used for a partial  consolidation  of Mr Ks loans, his monthly  credit  
commitment was set to increase and, therefore,  Im satisfied his new repayments  were  
unsustainable.
In summary,  as neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. TM Advances Limited should:
A)Remove all remaining interest,  fees and charges  from the balance on the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the loan. If this results  in Mr K having made overpayments  then TM 
Ref: DRN34521064Advances should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint  is settled;
If there  is still an outstanding balance, then TM Advances  should try to agree 
an affordable repayment  plan with Mr K.
B)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ks credit  file up until this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. 
TM Advances should give Mr K a certificate  showing  how much  tax its deducted, if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3452106