K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about treatment he has received from Nationwide  Building Society in 
relation to his credit  card.
background 
In December 2017 Mr W sent Nationwide a cheque  for £146 to clear the balance on his 
credit card. Nationwide  misread the amount of the cheque and only credited £46 to the 
account. As a result  of this Mr W incurred late payment fees and interest. Nationwide  also 
reported adverse  information about the credit card to credit reference agencies.
Mr W complained  to Nationwide  about the above problems and about the length of time it 
was taking to resolve them. Nationwide upheld  Mr Ws complaint. It agreed to refund the 
fees and interest  to Mr Ws account and to correct his credit  file. It also paid him £50 
compensation. It didnt  agree that it had given him poor service  by not resolving his 
complaint sooner than it did.
Mr W wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
After the complaint had been  referred to this service  it became apparent that Mr Ws credit 
file was still showing adverse information about  his Nationwide  credit  card.  Our investigator  
raised this with Nationwide and it offered to pay Mr W £200 in addition to the £50 it had 
already paid. Mr W didnt accept this increased  offer because  his credit file was still showing 
adverse information  reported by Nationwide.
Nationwide again  agreed to remove the adverse information and increased its offer of 
compensation to £300 on top of the £50 it paid initially. Our investigator  thought  this was a 
reasonable offer and recommended Mr W should  accept it.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. He wasnt convinced that 
Nationwide would correct  his credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr Ws latest credit report.  He isnt happy  with the entries shown in respect of his 
Nationwide credit card because they dont show the actual payments he made. In particular 
the payment made in January 2018 is still shown as £46.
While I can understand why Mr W is dissatisfied,  I dont think his credit  rating  is adversely 
affected by the inaccurate recording of the actual payments. There  isnt any suggestion that 
he failed to make any payments when they became due. So I think  Nationwide has now 
complied with its offer to remove  adverse information relating to his credit card.
Its apparent that the service Mr W received from Nationwide in relation to this matter  fell 
below the standard he was reasonably entitled to expect. As a result he suffered  
unnecessary trouble  and upset. But I dont think hes suffered any financial  loss. 
Ref: DRN33096872Im aware he made an application to another credit  card provider  which was refused. 
However, I havent seen  enough evidence to enable me to reasonably conclude the refusal 
was due to adverse information Nationwide had put on his credit file. In addition, I dont think 
the refusal of the credit card application caused  Mr W any direct financial loss.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied £350 is a reasonable  amount  of compensation for 
Mr W to receive  for the trouble and upset hes suffered. Nationwide  has paid Mr W £50 and 
Im aware its sent him a cheque for £300  which he hasnt  banked.  If Mr W accepts my 
decision Nationwide wont need  to take any further  action  unless, for any reason, the cheque 
cant be banked.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide  
Building Society to pay Mr W £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3309687