K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI).
background
Mr B took out the MPPI policy  in June 2004. The MPPI was arranged  alongside his 
mortgage with Halifax. It was part of a package  of insurance, but Im only looking at the 
MPPI element. The MPPI was cancelled in 2009.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B hasnt said he didnt want the PPI, but rather that he now believes its possible he either 
didnt need it  or if he did, that he could have bought it more  cheaply elsewhere. It seems  
the PPI was sold in a meeting, but I dont know what Halifax  told Mr B about  it. Mr B says he 
cant remember being given much information about the policy  at all. 
From what  we know of how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time, I think  it normally  
made it clear  to customers they had a choice about MPPI and got their agreement  to it. I 
havent seen anything to make me think Halifax didnt follow its normal  process here. I have 
seen the mortgage offer Mr B received  in 2004. Theres no mention of PPI on it, so I cant 
say it was needed to get the mortgage.  I think its likely Halifax  made it clear  to Mr B he had 
a choice about MPPI and he agreed  to it, even if he doesnt now remember that. 
Ive gone on to see if there are other reasons  why I should uphold  Mr Bs complaint but I 
dont think there are. Halifax says it recommended the MPPI to Mr B so it needed  to make 
sure it was right for him. Looking at the policy terms and Mr Bs circumstances at the time, I 
think the recommendation was right for Mr B. I say this because:
Ref: DRN38533142Mr B was eligible  for the MPPI.
Mr B wouldnt have  been caught  by any of the things the policy  didnt cover   like 
known health  issues or unusual employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to 
stop him claiming  the full benefit of the policy if hed needed  to.
Mr B says he might not have needed  the MPPI.  But he wouldnt have got any sick 
pay from his employer  if he couldnt  work   and he didnt  have any savings that might  
have helped him in such  circumstances. The MPPI wouldve covered the mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months  if Mr B was too sick to work. And it also wouldve 
helped if he was made redundant. Given Mr B was taking on an important  financial  
commitment I think this couldve provided  him peace of mind  to meet his mortgage 
repayments. Indeed Mr B did claim about  £2,317 when he lost his job a while later.
Halifax has told us the MPPI  cost Mr B £36.31 a month and it wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit which wouldve covered his entire monthly mortgage  repayment. 
Nothing Mr B has told us suggests  he couldnt  afford to make these monthly  
payments at the time.  I appreciate  Mr B says he might have been able to get similar 
cover cheaper elsewhere, but the cost of this policy wasnt out of line with other 
policies available  at the time, so I dont think thats a reason  to uphold the complaint.
As well as making sure the MPPI was right for him, Halifax also had to give Mr B clear  
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  it. I dont  know  what steps 
Halifax took to do this and its possible some things  werent explained as clearly as they 
should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely  Mr B agreed to the cover and it looks to 
me as if it was right for him. So I dont think clearer information wouldve changed his 
decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think  the policy was 
suitable for him.
Mr B told us he later entered an IVA  an individual voluntary arrangement  with some of 
his creditors. Weve  tried but been  unable to check with the IVA practitioner  if he has any 
interest in the outcome of this complaint. I dont think that affects this decision, because, as 
Im not upholding the complaint, theres no compensation to be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3853314