K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs E say Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about monthly premium MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002  and 
then amended when a further advance was taken  in 2003. The entire mortgage became 
regulated in 2007 when  Mr S and Mrs E successfully  applied for another  further  advance.   
Mr S and Mrs E had a joint mortgage  and the monthly benefit was split 65:35 in Mr S favour.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S and Mrs Es case.
Having thought about everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S and Mrs Es 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
I dont know what happened at the time the policy  was sold. But I can see Mr S and Mrs E 
signed a separate application form for MPPI cover after ticking  the box to confirm  that they 
wanted it on their mortgage  application form. Mr S and Mrs E also wouldve known that they 
didnt have to have MPPI on their later advances. And, in these circumstances, I think that 
they wouldve  queried why they had to have MPPI on this mortgage  if theyd  been  misled 
into thinking that they had to have it.   
So taking everything Ive seen together, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds made     
Mr S and Mrs E aware the MPPI was optional and that they chose to take it out having an 
appreciation of what it was they were agreeing to.
I think that Lloyds  recommended the MPPI to Mr S and Mrs E. So it had to make  sure that 
the policy was right for them.  And based  on what Mr S and Mrs E have told me about their 
circumstances at the time, I dont think that Lloyds  recommendation was unsuitable.  
To explain, the information provided  suggests that monthly benefit  was split roughly in 
proportion to Mr S and Mrs Es incomes. And while Mr S may have been self-employed,  I 
dont think that this meant he wouldve  found it more difficult to claim the unemployment 
benefit on this policy. So I think that the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  if Mr S or 
Mrs E had to stop working suddenly at a time when  their finances are likely to have been 
squeezed. This is especially as it was protecting  the payments to the mortgage and I dont 
appear to have had much  in the way of other means to make  their mortgage payments. 
Im open  to the possibility that Lloyds  couldve  explained the cost of the policy  better than it 
did. But the policy wasnt that expensive, in relation to the protection  it provided. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Mr S and Mrs E couldnt afford the premiums at the time the 
recommendations were  made. And as Ive explained, I think that Mr S and Mrs E had a need 
Ref: DRN34029292for this cover  too. So even if it Lloyds had explained  the cost better, I still think that Mr S and 
Mrs E wouldve  bought it. 
Its also possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr S and Mrs E everything it shouldve  done about the 
policy and the main things it didnt cover. But from what Mr S and Mrs E have told us, I dont 
think that they wouldve been  affected  by any of these. It looks  like they were eligible for the 
policy, were in good health and they were  working.  So I think  that Mr S and Mrs E wouldve 
still taken the MPPI even  if Lloyds had told them everything it needed to when they took it 
out.
Id like to reassure Mr S and Mrs E that Ive thought about everything theyve told us. And 
Ive listened to everything theyve said. But I dont think  that the MPPI was mis-sold to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr S and Mrs E complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S and Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3402929