K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Legal & General Partnership  Services Limited mis-sold him a 
mortgage.
background
Mr W and his late father had an interest only mortgage. On L&Gs  advice, they moved to a 
repayment mortgage with another lender, consolidating a car loan Mr W had in the process.
Mr W now complains,  with the assistance of a claims management company (CMC), that the 
mortgage was unsuitable. It said that Mr W and his father should have been advised  to stay 
with his existing  lender.  It says they shouldnt  have been advised  to consolidate the debt 
because doing  so means Mr W will have  paid significantly  more interest over the term. And it 
says they shouldnt have been  advised to add the cost of a will to the mortgage balance,  and 
that fees charged by the broker  were  unfair.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint, other  than to offer a refund of commission the broker  
received from the solicitor  it referred them to, and the cost of adding  the will to the mortgage 
balance, plus £250 compensation. Our investigator  didnt uphold  it either, so the CMC  has 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this was an unsuitable mortgage  to recommend. Mr W and his late father had an 
interest only mortgage supported by an endowment. The fact find  which no one has 
suggested is incorrect  shows that there was a projected shortfall  on the endowment.  So I 
think converting the mortgage  to repayment  terms was a sensible course of action. The 
CMC says this could have  been  done with the existing lender. I dont know  if Mr W and his 
father had approached their previous lender. And I dont know whether or not it would have 
agreed. But I dont  think  it was unreasonable  that, once theyd decided to use a broker, the 
broker reviewed the whole of the market for the best available  mortgage.
The CMC says consolidating  the car loan made it much  more expensive over the long term, 
since the mortgage was longer than the loan term. It hasnt provided  any calculations  of its 
own to support that. Ive calculated this myself, and I think  the CMC is wrong. The car loan 
was for just under six years at an interest rate of over 13%. Left unconsolidated,  the interest 
charged would have been over £2,000 in total.  Added to a 12 year mortgage,  with an initial  
five year fixed rate of 4.49%, however,  results  in less than £1,700 total interest.  So 
consolidation was cheaper for Mr W both month by month and over the long term  and as a 
result I cant  find doing so to be unsuitable  in this case.
L&G has made an offer in respect of the commission  and will, which I think  is fair. I dont 
think it needs to refund any other  fees, since I think Mr W understood and agreed to the 
brokers fees, and he received the service he paid for.
Ref: DRN38536262my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont direct it to 
do anything further  than that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2  April  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3853626