K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  irresponsibly  gave her loans which  she 
couldnt afford to pay back.
background
This complaint is about four loans Myjar provided to Miss M between  November 2017 and 
April 2018. They were  each set up to be paid back by way of 3 monthly instalments. The first 
three loans  were repaid early but (so far as I am aware) Miss M hasnt yet repaid loan 4. 
Heres a table setting out more details:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 16/11/2017 23/12/2017 3 £150.00 £79.82
2 23/12/2017 16/03/2018 3 £275.00 £139.06
3 16/03/2018 17/04/2018 3 £275.00 £136.70
4 17/04/2018 outstanding 3 £550.00 £272.41
Miss M said that this unaffordable lending caused  her long term hardship  and added to her 
financial difficulties. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and felt it wasnt unfair for Myjar to have provided 
loans 1 to 3, but that loan 4 shouldnt have been  lent to Miss M. 
He said (briefly)  that by loan 4, Miss Ms borrowing history showed  signs that she was 
struggling to repay some  of her previous loans. In these  circumstances,  our adjudicator  
thought there was a significant  risk Miss M wouldve been unable  to sustainably meet her 
repayments for loan 4. He recommended steps  Myjar should  take to put things  right for 
Miss M. 
Myjar didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said the checks it carried  out were proportionate  
and that our adjudicators view lacked information, so it wasnt certain  that everything had 
been properly  considered.  
Myjar asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss M could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
Ref: DRN33127302These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.  
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss M. It asked Miss M for 
details of her income and normal  expenditure. And Myjar  carried out checks  on Miss Ms 
credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Miss M loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information it had recorded about  her income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. 
As Miss M hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans 1 - 3, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
So I will focus on the loan which  remains  in dispute  loan 4.
Ref: DRN33127303I agree  with our adjudicator that by now, Myjar shouldve realised that she was struggling to 
manage her debt. 
Miss M repaid loan 3 barely  a month  after she took it out. This was the third time in a row 
that shed arranged a loan to be repaid  over a number of months and then paid it back  early 
 and each time shed  then taken out a new loan the same  day. 
And the trend  was for her to ask for increasing amounts  loan 4 was for more  than three  
times as much  as loan 1. 
Although loan 4 mightve looked affordable on the figures Miss M gave, her history  with 
Myjar suggested this wasnt  the case and her borrowing track record  was clearly  at odds 
with what Miss M had told Myjar about her financial situation. 
It shouldve been  apparent to Myjar that it didnt  look like Miss M was using these loans for 
their intended purpose as a short term fix for cash flow problems or to cover a one off or 
emergency expense.
And I think her borrowing history suggested  that Miss M couldnt afford to pay back what  she 
had borrowed without  borrowing again, and Myjar could see that her indebtedness was 
generally increasing unsustainably . 
For these reasons, I dont  think  it was reasonable for Myjar to think that it was likely Miss M 
would be able sustainably  to repay  loan 4  so it shouldnt have provided this loan.
And it appears that this is borne out by what happened after  as far as I can see Miss M still 
hasnt repaid loan 4.
 For these reasons, Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint  about  loan 4.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back  before doing what  I have outlined 
below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 4, and treat any 
repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B.If this results in Miss M having  made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" should be 
used to repay loan 4. Any surplus  should  be paid to Miss M. Otherwise,  if there is 
still an outstanding  balance, then Myjar should try to agree an affordable  repayment 
plan with Miss M.
D.Remove all adverse entries  from Miss Ms credit  file for loan 4 once it is repaid  and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same  if Myjar sold this loan on. 
Ref: DRN33127304*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint about  loan 4 and direct MYJAR Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3312730