K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains hat HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt help her after her card was retained  by an 
ATM whilst she was abroad.  
background
In October  2018 Ms T went on holiday with her son. On 24 October 2018 Ms T tried to 
withdraw some case from an ATM but her card was retained. Ms T visited  a branch of HSBC 
in the country  she visited and asked for help.  But she didnt have identification  and the 
branch didnt provide any assistance. 
Ms T called HSBC in the UK and explained the situation. HSBC spoke with the branch to try 
and release funds  but the call handler  was told that the local rules meant that wasnt  
possible. Ms T was given  details of how to contact  VISA to arrange for some emergency 
cash to be sent. But VISA wasnt willing  to send cash to Ms T. 
Over the course of Ms Ts holiday she spoke with HSBC but it wasnt able to assist.  Ms Ts 
friend transferred some funds to her but shes told us there was a delay for additional checks  
which meant she didnt  get them until 26 October  2018. 
Ms T complained and HSBC offered £40 as a gesture of goodwill. HSBC said there  was no 
card or account block so couldnt say why the local ATM retained Ms Ts card.  Ms T referred  
her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. The investigator agreed  that 
there was no evidence HSBC had blocked  Ms Ts account or caused her card to be retained. 
But he thought  HSBC should  have  provided  better service when Ms T called and offered to 
send her emergency funds. The investigator upheld Ms Ts complaint and HSBC  agreed to 
pay her £300. 
Ms T didnt accept and has asked  HSBC to cover  the cost of her holiday. Ms T asked to 
appeal so her complaints been passed  to me to make a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms T is disabled and the impact  of having to visit HSBCs branches whilst 
abroad made things  really  difficult for her. Ive looked at everything  thats  happened  to 
decide whether  I can reasonably tell HSBC  to cover the cost of her holiday. Whilst I dont 
doubt that the absence  of her card did cause significant inconvenience to Ms T, I dont think 
that would  be a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Ms Ts card was retained on 24 October  2018  by an HSBC ATM in the country  she visited. 
But this complaint is about  HSBC  based in the UK and Im satisfied the ATM  Ms T used 
wasnt operated by that business. In addition,  HSBC has sent us evidence  that there wasnt 
a block on her card or account which would have prevented  a cash  withdrawal. I havent 
found anything  to show that HSBC  UK was responsible for Ms Ts card being retained.  
Ref: DRN36479292Ms T also complains about  the service provided  by HSBC branch staff in the country she 
visited. Whilst HSBC is a global bank,  HSBC UK isnt the same business as the one Ms T 
visited whilst  on holiday. I dont doubt  what Ms T says happened in branch, but HSBC UK is 
a separate legal entity to the bank she visited. Im sorry  but I cant  say HSBC UK is 
responsible for the service she received in branch whilst abroad.  
However, like the investigator, I do have some concerns about the information Ms T was 
given when she spoke  with HSBC on 24 October  2018. Ms T explained  that her card was 
retained and she had very limited funds left. The call handler tried various  measures, 
including speaking with the local branch, but wasnt able to find any way to resolve matters. 
The call handler went on to give Ms T details of how VISA could send emergency cash. 
HSBC confirmed to the investigator that the normal approach in this situation is for funds to 
be sent via an emergency cash advance using  its Lost and Stolen team.  But this option  
wasnt offered to Ms T. I think its more likely than not that HSBC could have done something  
to help which would have meant  Ms T had funds  available sooner. Like the investigator,  I 
think HSBC should  compensate Ms T for this error as its clear  it did make  the situation  more 
stressful. 
But Im not persuaded it would be fair to tell HSBC to pay £2,000.  Ms Ts told us she was 
away between 21 October 2018  and 28 October  2018. Ms Ts card was retained on 
24 October 2018 and she spoke  with HSBC. Ms T was subsequently  able to get a money 
transfer on 26 October 2018.  I dont doubt that the situation was very upsetting while  Ms T 
waited for funds form her friend, but she was able to continue the holiday. 
HSBC has agreed to pay Ms T £300 to resolve the complaint. Ive considered everything 
Ms T has told us about the impact the issues had on her in order to decide whether the offer 
is reasonable. Having done so, I think the offer fairly reflects the impact of not being told 
there was a process to send emergency  cash to Ms T and is fair in all the circumstances. As 
a result,  Im not telling HSBC  to increase its offer beyond the £300 its agreed to pay.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Ms T £300. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3647929