K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  
In April 2018, Mr O responded to an online  advert to invest  in crypto currency  with a 
company Ill refer to as C. He completed an online enquiry  form and was later contacted by 
a representative  from C. He was taken through  an account opening process  and later made  
a series of payments from his HSBC account to the account details provided  by C to fund his 
investment. 
Mr O was provided with access to an online account  where he could  monitor  his supposed 
investments. It was explained that C would invest his money  for him. In December 2018, C 
tried to entice Mr O to invest more. When he said no, he lost access  to his online account. 
He made  numerous  attempts  to contact C by phone and email  without  success. 
Mr O then realised  hed been the victim of a scam and, in January 2019,  reported this to 
HSBC. HSBC said they wouldnt refund Mr O as theyd followed his instructions when 
sending the payments. They also said they would contact the beneficiary banks to attempt  to 
recover the funds.  Mr O complained as he was unhappy with a lack of progress and updates  
from HSBC. 
When HSBC maintained their position, the matter  was referred  to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld.  In summary, he didnt think  Mr Os 
payments were so unusual that HSBC ought  to have intervened.  He also thought HSBC had 
done what they could to recover  the funds. As he disagrees, Mr O has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
Below is a table of the payments (totalling £6,200) that Mr O made as a result  of the scam. 
These all took place through Mr Os online banking.
Date Beneficiary Bank Amount
30 May 2018 P £2,500
29 June  2018 L £1,200
1 October 2018 HSBC £1,000
17 October 2018 HSBC £1,500
In September  2020 I issued a provisional  decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, Ive concluded  that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would  be to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN363625021.It is common ground that Mr O authorised each of the payments totalling £6,200. He 
believed at the time he was making  genuine investments. I accept that these were all 
authorised payments  insofar  as Mr O intended to send the monies to the scammer 
(because, at that time, he was unaware he was being scammed). Accordingly,  under 
the account contract and Payment Services Regulations, HSBC had a duty to 
execute his instructions  without  undue delay  unless its due diligence warning 
systems were triggered such as to give a reasonable banker grounds for suspecting  
fraud or financial crime by or against the customer. As such, Mr O is liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
2.However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice  at the time, I consider it would have  been  fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
Monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that their customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things),  
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
Taken additional steps or made additional checks  in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing the payment; or in 
some cases, to have  declined to make a payment altogether  in order  to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm  from fraud.
3.I consider that, on 30 May 2018,  when  Mr O authorised  the first payment, there were 
clear triggers  which  ought reasonably  to have alerted HSBC to unusual  and/or 
uncharacteristic activity by Mr O with regard to his account, irrespective of the 
payment channel used. HSBC  should, in my opinion,  have acted on these by taking 
additional steps, or making additional checks, before processing the payment, as it 
was reasonably foreseeable that not doing  so might result in this sort of financial 
harm.
4.In Mr Os case, Im satisfied there were the following triggers to alert HSBC  to the 
possibility of a fraud  or scam:
The payment  of £2,500 was an unusually large  amount. Ive looked at Mr Os 
statements going back to December 2017,  which I consider gives  a fair sample 
size to assess what typical  activity  for his account was. The account  appears to 
have primarily been  used for day-to-day  spending. There  are card payments, 
cash withdrawals and online payments. There are infrequent higher value 
transactions, the largest of which  was a bill payment for just under £1,500 in 
January 2018.  But most payments were for a few hundred  pounds or less.
The payment  represented  a sudden  and uncharacteristic increase  in spending 
from the account.
The payment  was to a new payee.  
The payment  was made to an account with P who primarily specialise in pre-
paid credit card accounts.
5.The beneficiary of this first payment is a relevant factor.  In my experience,  a lot of 
fraudulent payments  go onto pre-paid cards and this is something I think HSBC,  as a 
Ref: DRN36362503large international bank, ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware of at the 
time. Its commonly  known by banks that pre-paid card companies are vehicles  that 
fraudsters often use when  asking their victims  to transfer money. So, the recipient 
bank, with their primary business being pre-paid cards, presented  an additional risk 
to the transaction. And on top of this, Im mindful  the payment  Mr O made was for 
£2,500. This is a large amount for someone  to move onto a pre-paid card. Its fair 
and reasonable for a bank  to look out for anything unusual in relation to a transaction 
or payment instruction.  
6.Ultimately,  its a matter for HSBC and/or the regulator as to how they choose to 
configure their fraud detection systems given the balance  between  the duty of care 
towards clients and the duty to execute instructions without  undue  delay.  But on the 
facts and evidence  before me, I am satisfied that HSBC  could and should reasonably 
have made additional  checks with Mr O before they let the first payment through.  
There were enough triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic activity such that, in my 
view, a prudent and professional banker  could  and should have realised that 
something didnt  look quite right  and that further enquiries  would be appropriate 
before going further. I therefore  conclude  that, in failing to do this, HSBC didnt do 
enough to protect Mr O from the risk of loss.
7.So, Ive gone  on to consider whether HSBCs  intervention at this point would  have 
made a difference  its essential for any failing to have caused the loss. Here,  if 
HSBC had contacted Mr O, I would have expected them  to have asked probing 
questions with the aim of uncovering a potential scam and not necessarily to have 
taken Mr Os answers at face value  (because  banks know that victims  are often 
coached into giving  cover stories by the scammers). I think  Mr O would probably 
have explained  that he was making an investment  in crypto currency   this is what he 
believed he was doing at the time.  At this point, its likely it would quickly  have 
become apparent to HSBC that he was in the process of being scammed.  HSBC 
would or should  have  then told him the payment he was instructing was going to a 
business who specialise in pre-paid  credit  cards. This would have been at odds with 
what Mr O was expecting (a payment being  made to C to be invested  on his behalf). 
8.Its also likely that HSBC would  have warned Mr O that this is a common  means used 
by scammers to accept payments and that the area of crypto currency is one where 
unfortunately fraud was prevalent. I think this would have quickly  unravelled  the 
scam. I think its most  likely that Mr O would have withdrawn his instruction to make 
the payment and this loss would have  been  prevented. It is reasonable to conclude  
that, if the scam had been stopped at this first payment, then all the subsequent 
payments (and the resultant losses) would also have been  prevented. 
9.Ive also thought about if Mr O hadnt  answered the contact  from HSBC  by being 
unable to take a call or similar. I dont think HSBC could fairly have concluded that 
being unable  to contact Mr O was reasonable reassurance that he wasnt  at risk of 
financial harm. And in those circumstances, Id have  expected  them to hold the 
payment until they had been  able to speak to him.
10.Ive also considered whether Mr O should  bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that at the time of making the payments, 
Mr O believed this to be a genuine  investment. He was taken through an account 
opening process and was also provided  with access to an online portal showing his 
investments. These steps and this provision  closely follow those of legitimate 
Ref: DRN36362504investment firms. Mr O has worked  in banking and was further  persuaded by the 
accurate technical  terminology  used by Cs representative. The Financial Conduct 
Authority published  a warning on their website  about C in October 2019, but this was 
long after Mr O had realised hed been the victim of a scam. Considering all the 
above, I dont  think it can fairly be said that Mr O was negligent. Mr O was an 
unwitting victim of cunning fraudsters.  HSBC are the finance professionals  whereas 
Mr O was a consumer for the purpose  of these transactions. 
11.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse Mr O for the loss he suffered without any reduction, together  with interest 
to compensate him for being  deprived of the money he lost from his account. 
12.Much  of the complaint  to date has focussed on HSBCs  efforts to recover Mr Os 
funds. Particular attention has been paid to the beneficiary account of the final two 
payments which was also held with HSBC.  I understand this account  was subject to 
an Account Freezing Order issued  by a court in December 2018.  This would have 
understandably limited the actions HSBC were  able to take in relation to that account 
when Mr O reported the scam in January 2019.  But as Im satisfied HSBCs failure to 
intervene at the first payment is the dominant, effective cause of Mr Os losses, its 
unnecessary to make detailed findings in relation to their efforts to recover the funds. 
I do, however,  note that both P and L confirmed to HSBC that no funds  remained  to 
be returned in the beneficiary accounts   and, indeed, it tends to be a feature of fraud  
and scams that scammers very quickly withdraw  the stolen funds precisely to defeat 
this sort of recovery attempt. 
13.HSBC have accepted  that some  of the service  they provided  around giving updates  
to Mr O was lacking  and they offered him £50 compensation for the impact of this. 
Ive carefully considered  all the circumstances and Im of the opinion  that HSBCs  
handling of this matter as a whole has caused  Mr O material distress  and 
inconvenience. Ive kept in mind  that much  of his distress was caused by the criminal 
act of the scammer who tricked him into making the payments  but HSBC could 
ultimately have prevented this. As such,  I think a total of £300  is a fair amount of 
compensation for distress or inconvenience.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, but subject to any further information I receive from either  
HSBC or Mr O, Im intending to uphold this complaint and direct that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay 
Mr O the following:
£6,200 for the payments he lost as a result of the scam (less any amounts recovered 
(if any) from the payee banks and already reimbursed to Mr O); plus
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused (if the £50 referred  to 
above has already  been paid then only a further  £250 needs to be paid).
HSBC should  also pay interest on this proposed award (save for the distress and 
inconvenience) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the respective dates of the 
scam payments to the date of actual refund. But interest will also accrue at that rate on the 
£300 for distress  and inconvenience if it is not paid within 28 days  of HSBC receiving 
notification of Mr Os acceptance of my final decision. 
Both HSBC  and Mr O responded to say they accepted my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN36362505my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party had any further submissions or comments  for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained  in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc must pay Mr O the following:
£6,200 for the payments he lost as a result of the scam (less any amounts recovered 
(if any) from the payee banks and already reimbursed to Mr O); plus
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused (if the £50 referred  to 
above has already  been paid then only a further  £250 needs to be paid).
HSBC should  also pay interest on this award (save for the distress  and inconvenience)  at 
our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the respective dates of the scam payments  to the 
date of actual  refund.  But interest will also accrue  at that rate on the £300  for distress and 
inconvenience if it is not paid within 28 days of HSBC receiving notification  of Mr Os 
acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3636250