K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
1992. Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr W took out a mortgage with Halifax  in 1992. At the same time a PPI policy  was taken  out 
to cover the mortgage repayments. Mr W paid a monthly amount for the policy.
If Mr W had made a successful claim the policy would  have  paid the monthly mortgage 
repayment for up to 12 months if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if 
he lost his job.
Mr W also made a complaint to us about a PPI policy that was taken out in 2002.  Our 
adjudicator upheld this part of the complaint due to Mr Ws employment status at that 
time and Halifax agreed to reimburse Mr W. As this part of the complaint has been 
upheld and Halifax has offered to repay the premiums  as per our guidelines,  I wont be 
considering this any further in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed  so the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate that this will come  as a disappointment 
to Mr W and Ill explain my reasons for reaching that outcome.
Halifax had to make it clear that Mr W didnt have  to take out the PPI and he had to agree to 
take it out. Neither Mr W nor Halifax  has been able to provide much  in the way of paperwork 
from that time so I dont  have any notes to show what discussions may have taken place or 
any copies of the documents Mr W may have seen  or signed.  This isnt surprising 
considering the length of time that has passed  since the sale.  
Ive thought very carefully about this but I havent  seen enough to say that its more likely 
that Halifax didnt  make it clear that the policy was optional  or that Mr W didnt agree to take 
it out. So when  taking everything  into account, I think  its more likely that Halifax made Mr W 
aware the policy was optional  and he agreed  to take it, knowing  he could refuse it if he didnt 
want it.
Both parties  agree that advice was given to Mr W about the policy.  Based  on what we know 
about Halifaxs sales processes at the time I think this is likely to be the case. This means 
Halifax had to check that the PPI was right for Mr W  and based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example he appears to have been eligible for 
the policy and doesnt seem to have been  affected  by any of the main  exclusions or 
Ref: DRN31533252limitations on the PPI cover, such as unusual  working arrangements or suffering from a 
medical condition  of which he was already aware.
Mr W has told us that in 1992 he would have received  statutory sick pay and that he had 
some savings he could  have used. But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if 
he was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness which would be in addition  to, and 
potentially for longer  than, any sick pay he may have received. And it would also pay out for 
the same  length  of time if he was to lose his job. By having this policy Mr W could have 
protected his savings  for another purpose  or use them to cover  other essential living 
expenses. So I still think this policy could have been  useful for Mr W.
Its possible the information Halifax  gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think its more  likely he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems  like it would have  been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have 
put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what he has said about the other PPI 
complaints he has had with Halifax being upheld and so he believes this one should also be 
paid in full. He has said that all of his mortgages were just a continuation of the existing 
arrangement. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, we are considering the sales  of the PPI 
policies, not the mortgages.  And we consider  each  case on its individual merits taking into 
account the circumstances that were relevant at the time of each PPI policy  being  taken out. 
And, as mentioned  previously, when considering  Mr Ws circumstances  in 1992, I dont think  
this policy  was mis-sold. So this point  doesnt  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN31533253my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3153325