K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that a payment she made from her account  with Santander UK Plc was 
delayed and then returned. In the meantime, she was given very little information about what  
was happening.    
background
On 1 November  2018 Miss N authorised  Santander to make  a payment of £9,500  from her 
current account to an account in the USA. Shes explained that the payment was to enable  
her partner to pay bills. The transfer  details recorded  that the money was to make card 
payments. When,  a few days later, the payment hadnt arrived Miss N called Santander to 
try to find out why. She called several times  over the following weeks,  but was told only that 
the payment was going through checks.  
The bank says that the team carrying out the checks on the transfer  tried to call Miss N 
during the same period,  but wasnt successful in contacting  her. Eventually,  on 27 
December, the payment  was returned.  
Miss N complained to Santander about what had happened. Santander said though that it 
had acted in line with regulatory  requirements  in initiating the additional checks.  Those 
checks would not have been  visible across  its systems, so its staff were unable  to answer all 
Miss Ns questions. It didnt believe it had done  anything wrong. 
Miss N complained to this service, and one of our investigators looked at what  had 
happened. She concluded that Santander  had acted in line with its own processes, as well 
as with relevant  regulatory procedures. So, whilst she acknowledged that the delay and 
return of the money  would have been  frustrating for Miss N, she didnt recommend that 
Santander make any offer of compensation. 
Miss N didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Indeed, theres  little I can usefully add to what the investigator has already said here. I 
accept that Santander needed to carry out checks on the payment. When  Miss N called the 
bank, it was unable  to provide meaningful information, because those checks were being 
carried out in a different department. But when the bank called Miss N, it was unable on 
three occasions to contact  her. That was unfortunate,  but its not the fault of either the bank 
or Miss N. 
Like the investigator, I can understand that this was frustrating  and worrying for Miss N. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained, that wasnt because of anything  Santander  did but shouldnt 
have done, or anything  it didnt do but should have done. In the circumstances, I cant 
properly make an award in her favour. 
Ref: DRN31347322my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to do anything further to resolve 
Miss Ns complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss N to accept or reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3134732