K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says HSBC  Bank plc (trading at the time of sale as first direct)  mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in July 1995. Mrs M applied  for the 
card and insurance through a postal  application.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs M, through  her representatives, disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and will explain why.
I think HSBC made Mrs M aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. I say 
this because I can see on the application form provided by HSBC  that PPI was presented as 
an optional requirement.  Mrs M would also have had to have ticked a box to agree to it. So I 
am persuaded after seeing this that Mrs M was given a choice to have PPI and she agreed 
to it by ticking in the box on the application form.
As this was a postal  application, I dont think HSBC  recommended the PPI to Mrs M. So it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. HSBC did have to ensure that the information it 
gave Mrs M was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an informed choice 
about the insurance. 
It is possible the information HSBC gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think she would have taken the policy anyway. It would have paid more  
than her minimum credit card repayments, for up to 12 months  if she couldnt find work, 
providing a useful extra benefit  at a difficult time. She doesnt appear to have had means to 
make her credit card repayments if she couldnt  work for an extended period of time,  at least  
not enough that it would have put her off from having the insurance.  The policy was also 
affordable and competitively priced.  
Mrs M was self employed at the time of sale. So I have checked the policy document from 
the time the PPI was sold to her to consider whether the terms given for self employed  
people making  a claim for benefit was restrictive  in any way. I can see that Mrs M would 
have been able to claim benefit  as a self employed policy holder  and the conditions  that 
applied were not restrictive or onerous  on her. So I dont think this was a significant  term that 
she needed clearer information on or was something that would have put her off at the time 
of sale. I also couldnt find any other  exclusions or limitations within the policy  that would 
have affected  her either.
Ref: DRN38968072In conclusion, I think Mrs M would still have bought the policy  if the information that HSBC  
had given her about  the PPI had been  better. This means Mrs M isnt worse  off as a result of 
anything HSBC did wrong, and theres  nothing it needs to do to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3896807