K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that a car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  wasnt of satisfactory  quality. 
background
On 18 December 2018 I issued a provisional  decision  on Mr Ns complaint. After considering 
all of the evidence  and arguments presented by both sides, I was minded to think there was 
enough information to persuade me, on balance, that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied  to Mr N in particular  that it wasnt reasonably durable.
I attach a copy of my provisional decision to this final decision.  It forms part of this final 
decision and fully sets out the background to this complaint. It details in full how and why 
I reached this position. 
I invited Mr N and Mercedes FS to let me have any further evidence  or arguments they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision.
after my provisional  decision  
Mr Ns response
Mr N broadly agreed with what Id said in the provisional decision. He said that hed tried to 
start the car because it had been  sat for a while. He said that the replacement  door handle 
had started to stick again and provided  video  footage to show this. 
Mr N also said that the dash cam has never  been  hard wired  into the car as it plugs  into the 
cigarette lighter.  He felt this demonstrates  that the car hasnt been inspected  properly as it 
wouldve been clear  that there was no hard wiring. He provided  video footage  to show how 
the dash cam connects to the cigarette lighter. 
Mr N provided  evidence  of the car insurance hes been paying monthly for the car supplied 
by Mercedes FS and asked if this cost could be taken into account. He added  that hed also 
paid to have new number plates physically made up when he had to transfer his private 
registration number.  He explained  that he was out of pocket by around  £30 for that and 
thought it should be taken  into consideration too.
Mr N stressed  the impact this matter  was having on him and his finances and urged for 
things to be concluded as quickly as possible. He suggested that the £250 award for distress 
and inconvenience  that I was minded to make didnt go far enough  to recognise all that hes 
been through with the car. 
Mercedes FS response
Mercedes FS disagreed with my proposed  outcome. In summary, it made the following 
comments:
It felt there was a lack of evidence to support Mr Ns concerns with the car and said 
that the only fault to have been evidenced was the issue with the handbrake light.  
Mercedes FS said that it disputes  all of the other  issues Mr N has highlighted. 
Ref: DRN35327482Mercedes FS said the fault with the handbrake light did not present itself for over 
eighteen months into the agreement. It felt the car had covered a sufficient amount of 
miles for its age and that the fault couldve happened for any number of reasons. 
It said that my opinion isnt that of a qualified  engineer or technician so I wasnt  in a 
position to say that the fault with the handbrake light was down to the build quality of 
the car. 
It pointed out that the Consumer Rights Act 2015  sets a six month rule on when the 
burden of proof moves from the business  to evidence that a fault wasnt inherent at 
the point of supply to the customer proving that it was. It recognised  that this wasnt a 
solid line in the sand but felt that it was unreasonable for me to say that the burden  
should fall back  on Mercedes FS in this particular case. 
Mercedes FS added  that it wasnt reasonable for Mr N to have purchased  a new car 
when this one remained useable. It pointed out that Mr N had driven the car for a 
further six months after hed first identified concerns and that there  was no change  in 
circumstances to suggest that the vehicle became unsafe after a further six months 
of driving. 
It reiterated the comments it had made previously around the handbrakes operation.  
It said that the handbrake light doesnt  reference the level of application  and whether 
that level is suitable for the cars circumstances at that time. It explained that the light 
will come  on when the handbrake is applied passed the first notch and that had the 
light not been visible at all, this would not impact  the functionality of the handbrake or 
the car.
It pointed out that tapping  the handbrake wasnt normal practice or operation and that 
I shouldnt be considering this particular video  footage as evidence. Mercedes FS 
added that any part being used against  its normal operation can be damaged.  
Mercedes FS also wanted to review the images of the bumper being removed from 
the car when  it was wrapped. We provided  the requested images. 
Ref: DRN35327483my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint and Ive thought  very carefully 
about the points that have been made in response to my provisional decision.  Having done 
so, it remains my view that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes FS to allow Mr N to 
reject the car. 
Its not in dispute  the car has a fault with the handbrake light. This fault was observed when 
the independent expert  carried out an inspection and can also be seen in video footage that 
Mr N has provided.  Both sides to the dispute do broadly agree that the handbrake light 
shouldnt operate  in this way. 
But Mercedes FS doesnt agree that it has supplied a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  exactly what is satisfactory  quality will depend on a 
number of things,  including  the age, mileage and price paid for the car. This was a brand 
new car. I still think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that a brand new 
car could  be used, free from even minor defects, for a considerable period  of time. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability, and with cars this means  that the components  
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.  Exactly what  a 
reasonable period of time for a car to last free from defects would be depends on a variety of 
factors. In this particular  case, the car supplied to Mr N was brand new, so I think  its 
reasonable for him to expect to use it without any problems or faults for some time. 
Mercedes FS points  out that the first time the fault with the handbrake light was observed  
was when the independent  expert  inspected the car, which  was around eighteen months  into 
the agreement. But Mr N first highlighted problems  with the handbrake warning light on his 
brand new car around a year after he got it. Hed only travelled around 7,000 miles at that 
point. 
I still consider that an issue with the handbrake light would be a significant  concern to a 
reasonable person. I say this because  I consider  it to be integral to the driving experience 
because it goes to the safety of the car when it is in use. I have noted  Mercedes  FS 
comments that the handbrake light doesnt  impact the functionality of the handbrake and that 
it still securely holds the car. But a handbrake light that flickers on and off could suggest  to 
the driver  that the handbrake  is engaged when it isnt. As I said in my provisional decision, 
the handbrake light is integral to Mr Ns confidence that it correctly engages at the 
appropriate times when hes operating the car. I dont think  a reasonable person would 
expect to have  this issue develop on a brand new car from a relatively early  stage.
I accept Mercedes FS point that the fault with a handbrake light can happen  for any number 
of reasons and that it may not have been present or developing  at the time the car was 
supplied. But Ive not been  provided  with any evidence that makes me think  the issue  in this 
particular case has been caused by normally expected wear and tear or that its happening 
as a result  of a maintenance issue. And Im not persuaded that this issue  has arisen  
because of the way Mr N has been  driving the car, nor have I seen anything to show  that its 
as a result  of his dash  cam. 
I recognise that Mercedes  FS feels that Mr Ns footage of the handbrake being  tapped  
should be disregarded because it isnt normal practice or operation.  But I consider that this 
footage is Mr N attempting  to show that the light illuminates in situations when it shouldnt. 
From what  Ive seen, Mr N isnt applying excessive force  to the handbrake unit.
Ref: DRN35327484Having very carefully  considered the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that the 
evidence indicates  there has been an ongoing  problem with the handbrake light and that it 
has been observed from a relatively early stage. As there have already been numerous  
unsuccessful attempts  to diagnose and troubleshoot the fault, for the reasons Ive already 
explained both here and in my provisional  decision, I dont think it would be fair to allow any 
further option to investigate  or repair the car. 
In summary,  from everything thats  been said and provided, I remain  persuaded, on balance,  
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr N  in particular   that it 
wasnt reasonably  durable. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr N highlighted additional financial losses  hes 
incurred. He provided bank statements to show he paid £80 to transfer his private number 
plate to his new car, and £32.88 to have new number  plates  physically made up. He also 
provided evidence  to show that hes paid £43.55  a month to keep the car supplied by 
Mercedes FS insured, even though hes not driven  it since June 2018. I agree that Mr N has 
had little benefit from the car insurance  that hes paid and that hes out of pocket as a result 
of having to change his private number plate over. These are costs that hes only incurred as 
a result of the breach of contract. With this in mind,  I think Mercedes FS should refund these 
amounts to Mr N. The evidence Mr N has provided  to me to support these costs  will be 
provided to Mercedes FS. 
Mr N was disappointed  with the amount I was minded to award to recognise  the distress  and 
inconvenience hes been caused.  I do recognise that its been incredibly frustrating to have 
to return to the dealerships and to keep  driving  the car whilst  it was presenting  a problem 
with its handbrake  light. But I recognised that situation in my provisional decision by saying 
that Mercedes  FS should  pay Mr N £250  compensation  for the impact  the breach of contract  
has had on him. I felt it was evident that Mr N had experienced problems relating directly  to 
the supply of the car. I also felt that Mr N should  be given a 10% refund of the monthly 
payments he made from January 2018  to May 2018  inclusive plus interest. I was minded to 
make that award because  of the impact  on Mr N of the loss of enjoyment from the car. I then 
recognised that Mr N hasnt driven  the car or had any use of it owning to his concerns over 
its safety. As a result, I felt it would be fair for Mercedes FS to refund the payments Mr N has 
made from June 2018 onwards in full. I am still minded to think that approach  is fair 
compensation. 
my final decision 
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited should now:
take back ownership of the car and end the finance agreement with nothing  further  to 
pay
  
collect the car at no cost to Mr N
remove the account from Mr Ns credit file
Ref: DRN35327485Give Mr N a 10% refund of the monthly payments he made  from January 2018  to 
May 2018 inclusive.  Mercedes  FS should  add interest at 8% simple a year on the 
refunded amounts  from the date each  one was originally paid to the date of 
settlement
Refund the payments Mr N has made  from June 2018 onwards in full as Mr N hasnt 
driven the car or had any use of it owing to his concerns over its safety. Mercedes FS 
should add 8% simple  interest  a year from the date each payment was paid to the 
date of settlement
Refund the £43.55  monthly payments Mr N made to insure the car supplied by 
Mercedes FS from June  2018 onwards. Mercedes FS should add 8% simple  interest 
a year from the date each payment  was paid to the date of settlement 
Reimburse the £80 fee Mr N paid to transfer his private number plate to his new car 
and the £32.88 he paid to have new number plates physically made up. 
Mercedes FS should add 8% simple  interest  a year from the date each amount was 
paid to the date of settlement 
Pay Mr N £250 distress and inconvenience
If Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  considers it is legally required to deduct 
income tax from the interest parts of my award, it must send a tax deduction  certificate with 
the payment so that Mr N can reclaim the tax if he is able to. 
Mr N should refer back to Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited if he is unsure of 
the approach  it has taken  and both parties should  contact HM Revenue  & Customs if they 
want to know more  about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  must  make any outstanding payment to Mr N 
within 28 days of the date we tell it that Mr N accepts  my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35327486COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr N complains that a car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed by Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
In June 2016  Mr N entered into a hire purchase agreement for a brand new car. The cash  price of the 
car was around £13,500  and the agreement was to run for 48 months. The agreement  allowed Mr N 
to cover 8,000 miles a year.
Shortly after getting the car, Mr N raised  concerns  about whether it was the same colour and had the 
same features as the one hed test driven and then went on to order. In August 2016, the supplying 
dealership made  Mr N an offer which included having the car colour  wrapped as a gesture  of goodwill.  
Around a year after Mr N got the car, he started to report problems. In June 2017, Mr N said that the 
engine bay had started to squeak and rattle and that hed noticed high revs when the car was idling. 
The car was booked  into the supplying  dealerships garage for an inspection into the rattling  noise on 
21 June 2017. The car had travelled around 7,000 miles  at that point. 
The diagnostic was inconclusive.  The garage suggested that Mr N could have some parts replaced 
under warranty  to see if that resolved the issue. Mr N didnt keep the appointment made for 8 July 
2017 because he was unhappy with the exploratory repair work  the garage proposed to do. He 
decided instead  to see how things went and if the issue would correct  itself in time.
At the end of January 2018, Mr N booked the car in as it was still presenting  with a rattling  noise from 
the engine area. He also noticed the door handles  were  sticking  and that the handbrake  warning light 
flickered when the handbrake was on. The car had travelled around 11,350 miles  when the supplying 
dealerships garage carried out a road test. The door handles were replaced  and the handbrake was 
tightened up. No other issues were identified.
At the end of March 2018, Mr N took the car back to the supplying dealerships garage.  It had 
travelled almost 12,500 miles at that point. Mr N explained the issues with the noise and the 
handbrake were  still presenting and provided video footage of them.  The garage had the car for a day 
and a further road test was undertaken.  No faults were identified. Mr N says that the mechanic told 
him that his type of car wasnt really made for motorway driving and that his experience was down to 
the nature of the car.
Mr N then made a complaint and said that he should be allowed to reject the car because of all of the 
trouble hed had. It was agreed that Mr N would return the car to the supplying dealership on 21 April 
2018 for a week long road test. Mr N was provided with a courtesy  car of a higher specification during 
this period. He collected  the car on 30 April 2018. It had travelled nineteen  miles in the time the 
garage had it. Mr N says it wasnt tested for long enough and points out that the engine  rattling noise 
was still there. He also adds that his car was damaged whilst in the garages  care and that the garage 
had agreed  to cover the cost of the fuel in the courtesy car he was given.  
Mercedes FS issued its final response. It said none of the issues reported could be replicated during 
an independent inspection or a week long road test. As a result, it said it was unable  to accept  Mr Ns 
request to reject the car. It added that if any faults had been found, it wouldve  taken  the opportunity  
to fix them first before  looking at accepting a rejection.  It went on to explain the options open to Mr N if 
he wanted to end the agreement early. It explained the outstanding finance balance that Mr N would 
need to pay if he wanted to sell the car to a third party as well as outlining voluntary  termination  and 
handback options. 
Ref: DRN35327487On 1 May 2018 Mr N used  the car to drive to work. He recorded footage of the engine  rattling  and of 
the handbrake  light on the dashboard flickering.  The footage was sent to Mercedes FS and it 
arranged an independent inspection of the car. This happened on 4 May 2018.  Mr N was present 
during this inspection and he says that the handbrake light did flicker and that the noise was heard. 
The independent inspection report says that the car was driven on various road surfaces including  the 
motorway. The engineer  concluded there was no unusual  noise when  the engine  was idle, nor when 
the car was driven. He said there was no grating noise  from the brakes and that they operate without 
fault. The engineer noted that the handbrake warning light flickered once when the car was waiting  at 
a set of traffic  lights.  It said the handbrake warning light is very intermittent. The report  made no 
comment on whether the engineer considered the car to be of satisfactory  quality when  it was 
supplied to Mr N. 
Mr N said the report proved  the existence of one of the faults on his car and that Mercedes  FS should 
either allow him to reject the car and refund the payments hed made  towards it or that it should fix the 
car and offer him a discount  on his monthly payments. 
Mr N then contacted Citizens Advice. He explained that hed given the main dealer garages numerous 
occasions to rectify the problems  and that he should be allowed to reject the car without giving them 
any further opportunities to try and find then fix the faults.  When Mercedes FS didnt agree, Mr N 
contacted us.
On 11 May 2018, our investigator spoke to Mr N on the phone. Mr N agreed that he would allow a 
different garage  to undertake further investigation  and booked  it in for early  June 2018. Mr N was 
optimistic that he would  be able to work  with the finance company to sort things out. 
On 15 May 2018, Mr N needed to call roadside assistance out to the car. It had travelled just over 
13,000 miles  at that point. The roadside  assistance company identified an engine overboost  fault 
code. It suggested taking the car to a main manufacturer dealership for further investigation. 
Mr N was frustrated  with the entire  situation. He said he was disappointed  with the quality of the 
repairs to the damage caused when the supplying garage  had the car. He said that further damage 
was caused whilst these  repairs were being  undertaken and that the exhausts heat shield was now 
loose. 
The garage  told him the repair to the heat shield wouldnt be covered under warranty because  of the 
presence of a third party  part. Mr N said the only opportunity for other parts to have been used on the 
car wouldve been when the colour wrap was applied.  Mr N was concerned that the wrap work may 
have caused the problems he was experiencing  with the car. 
Mr N said the car started to smell like burning  when  he was driving it on 25 May 2018.  He explains 
that he had no other option but to buy another car because this one is clearly faulty. Hes provided 
paperwork to show that he ordered a new car on 29 May 2018. Mr N explained that things are tight 
financially for him now as a result of having to pay for two cars and two insurance premiums.  He said 
that he wanted  to be able to reject the car supplied by Mercedes FS and receive  a refund of all the 
payments hed made towards it. He also wanted compensation for having to order a new car, along  
with a written  apology  from each  of the different people  hes had to deal with. He pointed out that he 
shouldnt be having so many  problems  with a car that was brand new when he got it and that the 
customer service  hes received has been awful. 
Mr N took the car to the garage in early  June  as arranged.  This was a main dealers  garage, but not 
the same one that originally  supplied the car. This garage wasnt able to find any electrical faults 
either but said there was a slight lip on the front brake disk. Mr N was surprised that this hadnt been 
picked up in any previous inspection.
Ref: DRN35327488Mr N explained that he now wanted either to reject  the car or that the car should be discounted  by 
50% and repaired to the standard it should be. He pointed out that the second main  manufacturers 
garage had also damaged  the colour  wrap on the door and provided a photograph to show this. The 
garage agreed to repair that problem.
Mr N felt like hed been  through enough. He said hed been back and forth to the garages at least  
seventeen times and that the car had been damaged  by both dealerships. He was very upset to have 
to keep paying for a car with faults and damage. Mr N provided evidence  from his insurer  to support 
his position that the car had never  been involved in a rear end collision.  He pointed  out that the only 
time the rear bumper  could have been removed  for any third party  part to be added  was when  the 
colour wrap took place. Mr N said this meant that the heat shield has been loose and that he hadnt 
had original  manufacturers  parts on the car since 2016. 
On 8 June  2018, the dealership tried to return the car to Mr N following the repairs  to the damage 
caused by the dealership.  Mr N refused to accept  the car back. He pointed out that the repair to the 
wing mirror  wasnt right and that there was a further  scratch on the paintwork. The dealership refused 
to take the car back.  The relationship between Mr N, the retail  dealerships and Mercedes FS reached 
stalemate. Mr N says the car has remained  on his driveway ever since.  The cars mileage  now is just 
short of 13,500 miles. 
On 4 July 2018, Mr N declared  the car as being  off the road and removed his personal  number plate 
from it. 
Our investigator looked into things and gave his view. He didnt  think  the car supplied to Mr N was of 
satisfactory quality, specifically  because he wasnt persuaded that it was reasonably  durable. He 
pointed out that it wasnt in dispute that there was an electrical fault with the handbrake  and that he 
wouldnt expect a brand  new car to be experiencing this sort of problem. He didnt think there was 
anything to suggest the issue was down  to wear  and tear or Mr Ns driving style. 
He also thought that Mercedes FS had had enough opportunities to try and replicate and fix the fault. 
To put things right, the investigator said that Mercedes FS should collect the car and cancel  the 
finance agreement with nothing further to pay. He added that Mercedes  FS should refund the initial 
deposit Mr N paid along  with the payments  he made towards the finance agreement  in June and July 
2018. He also thought that Mercedes FS should pay Mr N £250 compensation  to acknowledge the 
trouble and upset this experience has caused. 
Mr N was happy with the proposed outcome. But Mercedes FS didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  the matter. It pointed out that the first instance of the problem  was nineteen 
months into the agreement so it didnt agree that the fault was inherent when the car was supplied. It 
said that the handbrake  was functioning as it should be and was holding the vehicle when applied. It 
didnt think the light flickering had any impact on the handbrakes operation. It added that its not been 
possible to specifically identify or fix the issue as the cars  diagnostic logs keep coming back clear.  It 
also felt that Mr N had decided to buy another car knowing the likely impact paying  for two cars would 
have on his finances. 
Mr N added  additional points  to the complaint before it was passed to me. He said that he wanted to 
claim back the payments hed made towards the cars  three year service plan because the car had 
two services and neither of them identified  any issues.  He pointed  out that Mercedes FSs response 
to the investigators  opinion was incorrect. He provided photographs to show that the cars bumper 
was removed when the colour wrap was applied.
Mercedes FS also added additional points. It said that under the relevant law, a fault needed  to 
appear within  the first six months to establish  that it was present at the time of delivery but the 
problem with the handbrake  wasnt seen until Mr N was nineteen months into the agreement. 
It confirmed  that it had reviewed all of the video evidence  Mr N had provided. 
Ref: DRN35327489But it didnt think the video footage, despite the quantity of it, was conclusive.  It also felt it was 
impossible to provide a fix to a fault that cannot be found or diagnosed, even with extensive  
diagnostics and checks. 
Mercedes FS suggested that the car was useable  and it was Mr Ns decision to buy a new car. It said 
it was possible that Mr Ns hardwired dash cam could be causing the intermittent  fault with the 
handbrake light. It concluded by saying that Mr N had completed  a large  proportion of his mileage  
allowance and that it didnt  consider there to be any evidence to suggest the car was subject to an 
inherent fault or unfit for purpose. 
Whilst I have  been reviewing the complaint, Mr N reiterated his position. He explained that he didnt 
have any choice but to buy another car on finance, so all of the payments that hes made should be 
refunded to take into account the strain of the cost of paying for the new car along  with his household 
bills. He also pointed  out that this matter was causing him considerable  anxiety and that the £250 
compensation the investigator had recommended wasnt anywhere near enough. 
After I reviewed everything both sides had said and provided,  I broadly agreed with the conclusions 
our investigator reached but thought  the position with the deposit  Mr N paid was actually  different to 
what the investigator said. I also thought it would  be fair to recognise the impaired  use Mr N had of 
the car. In addition,  I noted that Mr N had incurred costs  transferring his private number plate to 
another car. I informally let both sides know of my observations around the proposed redress.
Mr N didnt entirely agree  with the points Id raised  around his impaired use of the car and thought it 
would be fairer to recommend a full refund of the payments hed made  from January  2018 onwards. 
Having said that, he explained that he was anxious to bring things  to a close and asked me to issue a 
final decision  urgently. 
Mercedes FS didnt agree that it needed  to do anything  at all as it still didnt  agree there were  any 
faults inherent at the point  of sale.  It provided further commentary  from the independent  engineer  that 
had inspected  the car. It also suggested that the fitting of Mr Ns dash cam could be causing  the fault. 
Mercedes FS indicated that it had further points that it wished  to make directly in relation to the facts 
of this case but it needed more time to do so. 
As it wasnt going to be possible to informally resolve the matter, I have moved to a provisional 
decision in order to set out my position to both sides  at the same time. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr N has said he wants us to look at his whole  customer service  experience with the brand  of car 
(including all the interactions with the dealership  and manufacturer). Just to make it clear I am only 
able to consider complaints  relating to a regulated  consumer credit agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement that Mr N entered  into is a regulated  consumer credit agreement. Mercedes FS is the 
supplier of the goods under  this agreement, and as such, is responsible if the car supplied wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
So I can look at the obligations of Mercedes FS as the supplier of the goods. And if it hasnt supplied 
goods of satisfactory quality  I can look at how this has impacted Mr N, and what  it should do to put 
things right. This doesnt necessarily mean I will say Mercedes FS is responsible  for all his 
interactions with the wider brand  but I want to reassure  Mr N that I will be considering  the things  he 
has said about the problems  with the car and how these have impacted  him when deciding  what 
Mercedes FS needs to do next.
Ref: DRN353274810did Mercedes  FS supply a car of satisfactory quality? 
My role is to decide whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr N. 
Relevant legislation  says goods should meet the standard that a reasonable  person would consider 
satisfactory (taking account of their description, price, and other relevant considerations). Aspects of 
the quality of goods can include their durability.  If goods are not of satisfactory quality,  then the 
finance provider  can be liable as this is a breach  of contract. 
Mercedes FS supplied Mr N with a brand new car with a purchase price  of around £13,500. With this 
in mind I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect  that it could be used, free from 
defects, for a reasonable  period of time.
In this case, the parties fundamentally disagree  about the problems  with the car. From  Mr Ns 
perspective, hes had a lot of trouble with it. Hes gone to significant lengths to provide video evidence 
to try and demonstrate  the issues hes experiencing  as well as going back and forth to the 
dealerships. But Mercedes FS disagree. It says the car is fit for purpose and useable  as intended. It 
feels the only fault which  has shown itself after nineteen months is a handbrake light which very 
intermittently flickers.  It says the light has no impact on the usage of the car and isnt significant. 
But I dont think Mr N wouldve gone  to the trouble  he has to record footage and take the car to 
dealerships for inspections and road tests if he was driving the car without any problems. Hed had 
the car for around a year and was able to do approximately 7,000 miles in it before he had concerns 
about a rattling noise.  This suggests to me that there was a perceptible change  in his driving 
experience and Ive not seen anything that makes me think that came about  as a result of his driving  
style, a lack of servicing or because the car had been involved in an accident. 
Mercedes FS position  centres on the handbrake light flickering on the dash.  I can appreciate that this 
is the only concern that Mr N has highlighted that has actually presented itself, albeit it fleetingly, 
whilst the car has been subject to a garage inspection.
But that doesnt mean  that Mr Ns other  concerns  with the car are unjustified.  He has consistently said 
the car has a rattling  noise when accelerating  and that the brakes make a grating noise. The difficulty  
is that the problems Mr N has reported do seem  to be intermittent. He has been able to film some of 
the issues  but the garage  hasnt been able to reproduce  the problems when it has carried out 
diagnostics or had the car for road tests. 
I accept Mercedes FS points that some of the video footage  Mr N has provided isnt persuasive  
enough to conclusively  demonstrate  the cause  of the problems hes experiencing. Ive listened  
carefully to the recordings of the engine noise  Mr N has provided and the audio  is unclear as to 
specifically what operation hes highlighting as being abnormal. The snippets dont make it clear  what 
normal operation sounds like and it is difficult to hear specifically what  Mr N is concerned  about due to 
the general  background noise in the recording from the other traffic on the road. 
But Mr N has provided evidence from a roadside assistance company that attended  the car in May 
2018 and reported an engine  overboost fault code. Although the car has been seen since then, it 
appears that the underlying cause of the engine overboost fault doesnt appear to have  been fully 
explored. Mr N has also highlighted issues with the eco stop start light not coming on and a burning 
smell. 
When the car was seen  in June 2018, the garage only suggested there was a slight lip on the front 
brake disk. It wasnt  suggested that this lip caused any major problem  to the operation of the brakes, 
but Im mindful  of the fact that Mr N has consistently maintained that hes heard a grating noise from 
the brakes. 
The main focus of the complaint  has been whether theres  a fault with the handbrake  because  the 
dashboard light has flickered intermittently when the handbrake is on and engaged. When Mr N first 
reported these concerns in June 2017, exploratory  repairs were proposed to try and troubleshoot the 
cause of the issue.  I can understand why Mr N wasnt happy with that approach. It wasnt guaranteed 
to even identify the cause of the issues, let alone resolve them. 
Ref: DRN353274811Bearing in mind  this was a brand new car, a reasonable person would expect  problem free motoring 
for much more  than a year. I dont think a reasonable  person would expect a brand new car to need 
exploratory repairs. 
The videos Mr N has provided  of the handbrake light flickering do show  theres a possibility of an 
electrical fault, perhaps a wiring or connection  issue. The expert report also identified the presence of 
the flickering too. Ive looked carefully at the video  footage Mr N has provided and I think it shows that 
the connection  appears to be unstable. When he taps the handbrake, it shouldnt flicker  in this way. I 
believe Mr N has provided this footage to show the connection appears to be unstable. And I dont 
agree with Mercedes FS that a flickering  handbrake light isnt significant. The bar for what  would  be 
considered satisfactory  quality is higher with a brand new car.
Whilst the garage has said that the warning light doesnt impact on the operation of the handbrake, I 
can understand why Mr N would be concerned about  it. The operation  of the handbrake (and the 
drivers confidence that it is or isnt engaged) is integral  to the safety of the car. I dont think  a 
reasonable person would be happy to accept an intermittent issue  like this one so soon after getting a 
brand new car. Theres  nothing  to suggest that this issue is presenting as a result of a lack of 
maintenance or general wear and tear. 
the additional clarification from the independent engineer 
Ive looked carefully at the further clarification  Mercedes FS obtained from the independent  engineer  
that inspected the car. But to my mind, the engineers response is inconclusive-  he didnt think  it was 
possible to say whether  the fault was at the point of sale or developing  since.  So the weight I can 
place on this extra clarification is neutral as it can be interpreted to support both positions equally. 
the timing  of the dash  cam installation 
Whilst the retailer has said in its opinion the dash  cam fitment couldve caused the issue with the car, 
there isnt sufficient evidence  to support  that this is most likely  the cause  for the problems that Mr N 
experienced with the handbrake. It also doesnt speak to the problems  hes highlighted with the 
engine overboost and the burning smell. I accept that it may well be possible for third party  
installations to cause a problem,  but it doesnt seem  to have  been fully explored in the occasions that 
the retailer  has had the car. 
Given the amount  of times the car has been inspected by two separate retail garages,  Id have 
expected the installation of the dash cam to have been investigated  as a potential source  of the 
trouble Mr N has experienced with the handbrake long before now. I also agree  with Mr N that the 
nineteen miles  the car travelled during its week long road test wasnt enough  to fairly replicate his 
usual driving experience. 
And Im currently not minded  dont think it would  be fair for either  the retailer  or Mercedes FS to look 
to investigate the car further now. Too much time has elapsed. 
I do accept that Mr N had the car for around a year before reporting  any concerns  with its 
performance, but Im also mindful of the fact that hed only travelled around 7,000  miles in the car at 
that point.  And Mr N has been consistent with the problems that hes been reporting. Hed travelled 
just under 13,500 miles before he felt he had no option  but to stop using it because he was concerned 
it was unsafe.  I have  placed  weight on the fact that this was a brand new car and that Mr N has had 
more problems  with it than are fair. Whilst it would be unrealistic to expect a car to be fault free 
forever, its clear  that this brand new car hasnt performed as it shouldve done.  I feel the handbrake 
light is a very significant problem  and is integral to Mr Ns confidence that it is correctly engaged at the 
appropriate time when hes operating the car. And Im not persuaded  that in supplying a car of that 
quality Mercedes FS acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN353274812Ive thought about what Mercedes FS has said about how long Mr N had the car before  the issue with 
the handbrake  light was shown. But for the reasons Ive explained, I am currently minded to think  
theres enough information  to persuade me, on balance, that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied to Mr N in particular   that it wasnt reasonably durable.
So next I have to consider what a fair way to put things right would be.
putting things  right
Our investigator said that Mercedes FS has had ample opportunity  to investigate, replicate and fix the 
concerns Mr N had highlighted so he didnt think it would be fair to allow  any further option  to repair  
the car. I agree with our investigator  on this point.  Mr N has highlighted that hes been back  to the 
garage in excess of seventeen times. So I think that a repair is unfeasible and potentially  unfair  to 
everyone involved  in this matter now, not least because the working  relationship between  the parties  
has broken  down to such a degree as to render it untenable.  
I am minded  to agree that Mercedes FS should take back ownership of the car and end the finance 
agreement with nothing further to pay. Mercedes  FS should also collect the car at no cost to Mr N and 
remove the account from his credit file. 
Mr N has said that he should get a full refund of all of the payments that hes made, especially 
because he felt he had no choice but to acquire another car on finance.  But I dont agree  that this 
would be fair. Mr N used the car for around a year before issues presented.  Then he drove the car for 
a further  six months to see whether the issues corrected themselves in time.  So whilst there were 
issues in the first eighteen months of the agreement, they were intermittent. Hed done around 11,350 
miles in the car when it was seen in January  2018. And hes travelled  around 13,500 miles in the car 
overall. 
So I think that Mercedes FS can keep the payments made from the agreements  inception up to and 
including the monthly payment for December 2017 to pay for the use Mr N had. 
But I do think  that Mercedes  FS should give Mr N a 10% refund of the monthly  payments  he made  
from January 2018 to May 2018 inclusive.  This is to recognise the impaired use Mr N had of the car 
during this time. I recognise that steps were taken to assist Mr N and that he did have use of a 
courtesy car whilst further investigation into the issues took place. 
But the video footage and email correspondence  Mr N has provided shows that the issues were 
presenting with more regularity  during  the time he wasnt using a courtesy car. So I dont think  it 
would be fair for him to pay the full monthly repayments during this period  as the car wasnt 
performing as it shouldve. Mercedes FS should add interest  at 8% simple a year on the refunded 
amounts from the date each one was originally paid to the date of settlement.
Mercedes FS should refund the payments Mr N has made  from June 2018 onwards in full as Mr N 
hasnt driven  the car or had any use of it owing to concerns over its safety. Mercedes FS should  add 
8% simple interest a year from the date each payment was paid to the date of settlement.
Our investigator said that Mercedes FS should refund the initial deposit  that Mr N paid. But I dont 
agree that would be fair here. Ive looked carefully at the agreement Mr N entered  into when he 
acquired this car. He already had finance on his previous car. To settle that agreement, he needed to 
pay £9,280.79. The part exchange value he was given for his old car was £8,280.79. This means  that 
the £1,000 payment Mr N made  was to pay off the remaining  amount outstanding of his previous 
finance agreement. The purchase price of this new car was £13,532.62. The finance agreement 
shows that Mr N was given credit of £13,532.62. So Im satisfied  that Mr N didnt pay any deposit that 
went towards this car. 
Mercedes FS should also cover the cost Mr N paid to transfer his private  number plate to his new car 
as he has only incurred this expense at this time because of the breach of contract.
Ref: DRN353274813I agree with our investigators recommendation  that Mercedes FS should  pay Mr N £250 to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience hes been  caused. He made extensive  visits to the dealership to try 
and resolve  the issue so its clear that the breach of contract has had an impact  on him. Its evident  
that Mr N has experienced problems directly relating to the supply of the car. I think  Mercedes FS 
should have accepted the car back sooner. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further evidence  or representations I receive from either  party,  I am currently minded to 
uphold this complaint and say that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  must: 
take back  ownership of the car and end the finance agreement  with nothing further to pay.
  
collect the car at no cost to Mr N. 
remove the account  from Mr Ns credit file.
Give Mr N a 10% refund of the monthly payments he made from January 2018 to May 2018  
inclusive. Mercedes FS should add interest at 8% simple  a year on the refunded amounts 
from the date each  one was originally paid to the date of settlement.
Refund the payments  Mr N has made from June 2018  onwards in full as Mr N hasnt driven  
the car or had any use of it owing to concerns over its safety.  Mercedes FS should add 8% 
simple interest  a year from the date each payment  was paid to the date of settlement.
Cover the cost Mr N paid to transfer his private number plate to his new car
Pay Mr N £250 distress  and inconvenience
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3532748