K820x#14complaint
Mr S is bringing a complaint as director of company  L. He complains  that Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC wont  refund a payment of £9,841  that the account clerk made from Ls business  
account to a scammer. 
background
On 14 February 2018 Ls account clerk received  an email thinking it was from Mr S. In fact 
his email account had been impersonated. The email address was slightly  different to Mr Ss 
genuine email  address  and a scammer  had sent the email instead.  The emailed asked the 
clerk to make  a payment  of £9,841  to a new beneficiary. The clerk  used  the account details 
provided in the email  but the sort code  was invalid. The clerk emailed back (unknowingly  
dealing with the scammer and not the genuine Mr S) and a new sort code was provided. 
The clerk sent the payment from Ls account at 10.32am on 14th February 2018.
Mr S checked his emails  shortly after these events and soon realised L had been  scammed. 
He contacted the clerk to say it wasnt him that had sent the emails  but the payment had 
already been made.
Mr S reported the scam to Barclays the same day. During the call Mr S was told the payment 
had already been made and couldnt be stopped  but Barclays  would  try to recover the funds 
with an indemnity with the receiving bank to see if any funds remained in the receiving 
account.
Mr S thinks  banks  should allow a delay before processing payments so there is an 
opportunity to prevent scams such as this. He says Ls business account accrued interest on 
an overdraft because it didnt have available funds to make  the payment and this scam has 
had a significant impact  on L.
What did Barclays say?
In its final response Barclays said the money  couldnt be recovered.  But it understood Mr S 
was unhappy  with the service received when trying to recover Ls money. Barclays said Mr S 
was promised, on a number of occasions,  that someone would contact  him and didnt. 
Barclays apologised for the service  provided and offered £200 compensation in recognition  
of this. 
Unhappy with Barclays final response on the matter,  Ls complaint was referred to our 
service by Mr S.
Our involvement so far
One of our investigators  looked into things. She said she was satisfied this was an 
authorised payment. Although the clerk had been  tricked into sending  the money to a 
scammer it was still authorised. 
Ref: DRN38169512The investigator was satisfied that the payment was made at 10.32am  on 14 February 2018. 
From the evidence she had seen the investigator thought Mr S first called Barclays  at 
11.02am on the same day to report the scam.  She was satisfied that the payments made 
from the receiving account were  made  at 10.48am and 10.49am, before Mr S contacted 
Barclays to let them know about  the scam. 
She accepted that Mr S may have contacted Barclays before 11.02am.  But because  the 
payments out of the receiving account were made so quickly,  after the payment from L 
credited the account, she didnt think Barclays, or the receiving bank could have reasonably 
acted any quicker and prevented Ls losses at this point.
The investigator considered the nature of the payment  and although it was higher in value 
than other  payments from Ls account,  she didnt  think it was significantly different that 
Barclays ought to have identified it as an unusual  payment, so much so that it needed  to 
take steps to intervene in some way. Again, she didnt  think that Barclays  had acted unfairly 
in the circumstances.
Mr S disagreed. In summary he said:
-the scam  payment was made to a private  account and the other payments from Ls 
account were made to customers,  businesses and to pay salaries  so this payment 
was different to the normal account  activity;
-it took Barclays three hours to contact the receiving bank;
-he wanted to know the exact time his call connected to Barclays when thinking  about 
how quickly they acted  in the recovery of his funds;
-Ls accounts  have never made  a payment over £6,000 so the scam  payment was 
significantly higher;  and
-L has suffered from the loss and the account has been  overdrawn ever since.
Mr S, acting on Ls, behalf didnt  accept the investigators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. So, it has been  passed  to me to consider.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case. And Ive also 
considered that:
-The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Ref: DRN38169513-Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
-identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised  
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances ); and
-look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with L when a payment of £9,841 was authorised on the account,  or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Having carefully considered all of this, I think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in allowing
the transfer to leave  Ls account.  So, I dont think it needs to reimburse L with the
£9,841. Ill explain  why in more detail.
Both Mr S and Barclays agree that the payment was authorised.  Because of this,
Barclays had an obligation  to follow Ls instruction. But it was possible for Barclays  to
stop the payment if it had reasonably been  put on notice that the funds were being
misappropriated. So Ive considered whether there  was anything about the circumstances
surrounding the payment that could  have put Barclays on notice that the payment was being 
sent as part of a scam.
Is the scam  payment unusual?
Barclays isnt expected to prevent every single  fraudulent transaction made. But it does have 
measures in place  (as do all banks)  to attempt to detect and prevent fraud and scams  and 
it does take steps  to protect its customers from financial harm; including  APP scams. 
But there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption  to legitimate payments. 
And how Barclays chooses to configure  its fraud  detection systems is for it to decide. The 
point I need to answer here is: based on all the circumstances  of this complaint, whether 
Barclays ought fairly and reasonably to have  done more here whether  its fraud  prevention 
systems detected the payment or not. Having done  so I dont think it should  and Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN38169514To provide context,  I wanted  to set out some  payments and account activity  on Ls account 
that arent in dispute. Ive included debits and credits and provided the account balance after 
each of these  activities on the account. The scam  payment is in bold.
Date Type of payment Amount Balance on the 
account
20/02/17 Online bill payment  x 2 Totalling £9,000 £15,694.82
06/03/17 Card payment £6,138.84 £151.80
10/03/17 Direct debit  £4,517.82 -£10,286.83
14/03/17 Online bill payments  x 10 Totalling £7,946.80 -£7,298.18
28/03/17 Online bill payment £5,000 £13,825.79
18/04/17 Online bill payment £4,000 £10,582.30
28/04/17 Online bill payments  x 21 Totalling £12,983.62 -£6,051.72
20/09/17 Online banking transfer  credit +£15,000 -£3,3712.62
29/08/17 Online bill payments   x 24 Totalling £17,961.99 -£31,481.63
29/08/17 Online banking transfer - credit +£20,000 -£9,030.63
14/02/18 Online bill payment £9,841 -£9,126.27
I agree  with Mr S that there are no one-off transactions  above approximately  £6,000 but 
there is a lot of activity  on the account  in general.  And often there are several payments from 
the account in one day that in total are larger in value than £9,841  (the scam payment). 
The overdraft is also regularly used and there  are large credits  to the account for example 
there are credits  of £15,000 and £20,000 in the table  above. 
The payments and values of those  payments or series of payments in any given  day, show  
that although the scam payment is higher in value it doesnt stand out in terms of the position 
it leaves the account in, given how the account  normally operates.
Mr S has also suggested that the scam  payment is different  to the other payments he makes 
on the account because it was made to a private  account. He says the payments from Ls 
account are usually made to business, customers or to pay salaries. Ive thought about 
Mr Ss point  but looking at the payment it appears on the statement as a bill payment, the 
same as many genuine payments on Ls account. I appreciate that Mr S believes the 
payment is different in its nature but Im satisfied that it isnt. Barclays  wont necessarily 
know what type of account the payment is being  made to so it wont know that this is being 
paid to an individual rather  than a business account.  
Mr S also thinks  that because it was a new payee  this should have been flagged.
Ive looked back  over Ls account history and can see that new payees were added  to the 
account. In 2016 five new payees were added, and in 2017  seven  new payees were  added.  
And one new payee  received a single  payment  of £4,874.75. So I dont agree with Mr Ss 
point that Ls account wasnt used  to set up new payees and send  large payments to them  
because I can see that it was. I agree this didnt happen on a regular basis  but it happened 
enough to persuade me the new payee  used in the scam payment wasnt  sufficiently 
unusual that Barclays  ought to have  been  concerned that Ls accounts were  at risk of fraud 
or financial harm.
Whilst I appreciate Mr S doesnt  agree, the scam payment doesnt strike me as
particularly unusual or suspicious for Ls account  activity. And I dont think  Barclays had
reasonable grounds to stop this payment  from leaving Ls account.
Ref: DRN38169515Could the payment have been recovered?
I can see that Mr S acted very quickly in contacting Barclays.  The payment left Ls account 
at 10:32am and from Barclays records Mr S was in contact by 11.02am. 
The payment from L credited the receiving  account at 10:32am, so instantly. And the funds 
were then spent from that account in two payments just 16 and 17 minutes later.  £4,500 was 
transferred from that account at 10:48am and £4,565 was transferred from the account at 
10:49am. So even by the time Mr S had contacted Barclays the money  had already gone.  
That means that Barclays couldnt have  contacted  the receiving bank in time to recover  Ls 
money. 
I appreciate Mr S is frustrated that Barclays then took three hours to contact the receiving 
bank but it didnt make any difference in the recovery  of Ls funds here. Whilst Mr S acted  
very quickly in contacting  Barclays the fraudsters were even quicker, which  unfortunately is 
very common with these types  of scams. Fraudsters often move the money on very quickly  
to avoid it being traced, recovered or the account  blocked and thats what  seems to have 
happened here.  
Mr S wants  to know the exact  timings that his call connected to Barclays,  I assume to see if 
he thinks Barclays could have acted  quicker in the recovery  of Ls funds. But even if I accept  
he called  Barclays earlier than 11.02am or the call connected before that time I still dont 
think Barclays could have  reasonably recovered  Ls losses.  I say this because  Barclays 
would need to take the details from Mr S about the scam, identify the payment  and agree  
that L was the victim of a scam. Barclays would then need  to contact the receiving bank to 
ask it to take action  and to look into what had happened.  The actions of the receiving bank 
are out of Barclays control,  but it would also need to take similar steps as I have described 
above. So even  if Mr Ss call did connect  to Barclays before 11.02am  I dont think  its 
reasonable to conclude  that both banks could  have acted quickly  enough to have  recovered  
Ls losses, given that the payments debited  the receiving account  16 and 17 minutes after 
the funds credited the account.  
Mr S is also unhappy that the payment debited Ls account immediately. He thinks there 
should be a delay in processing  payments of this size in case they are fraudulent.  Payment 
service providers and banks have obligations  under  the Payment  Service  Regulations to 
execute payments  and must ensure they are credited to the payee by the end of the 
business day the following day. Failure to do so could result in the bank being  liable  to the 
payer. But most faster payments are executed in a matter of minutes or within two hours. 
I appreciate that with hindsight Mr S believes there should have been a delay on the 
payment debiting Ls account. I understand that some banks do offer this as an option  to its 
customers when setting  up payments, I dont  know  if that was offered here and its not 
currently a requirement  that this is offered.  But even  if it was it would have only made a 
difference if Ls clerk had used this option  and Im not persuaded that the clerk would have. I 
havent seen anything to show the clerk  was suspicious  about the payment instruction or had 
any reason to think the payment needed to be delayed. So I dont think  Barclays  needs to 
refund Ls losses for this reason. 
Ref: DRN38169516Summary 
I appreciate that Mr S is extremely frustrated by these events but its my role to decide if its 
fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for Ls losses. Ultimately the scammers have 
caused Mr S distress and the losses to L. But that doesnt mean that Barclays  are 
responsible. Ive thought carefully  about  whether Barclays ought to have been concerned 
about this payment, it wasnt and I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about Barclays  actions  in the recovery of Ls funds.  And I dont think it 
contributed to Ls losses. Whilst it could  have acted quicker I still dont think  it could  have 
reasonably prevented Ls losses. 
Mr S is unhappy about the receiving banks actions  in the opening of the account. But that 
isnt something we can consider here.  Im looking at Ls complaint against Barclays.  Mr S 
would need to contact the receiving bank to raise any complaint L might have with them. I 
cant comment on that further here.
my final decision
As Ive set out above I dont uphold  Ls complaint against Barclays Bank UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3816951