K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system he says was misrepresented  to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented  by a claims management  company (the CMC).
background
In or around January  2015, Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about buying a solar panel system  (the system) to be installed  at his home. After 
being visited by a representative  of P, Mr M decided  to buy the system and pay for it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement  with Shawbrook. The system was installed shortly  after 
that.
In April 2017 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said, following Mr M receiving a leaflet through the post, P had made  a 
number of representations about  the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations  that induced Mr M to enter into the contract  with P. The CMC  said 
the following  representations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £7,980.00 to 
mislead Mr M  this figure did not include any interest associated  with the loan, so 
the true cost was £15,607.80;
Mr M was promised  a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit  of £698.39 and this didnt take into 
account that after making his loan repayments Mr M had an actual annual  deficit of 
£1,296.84;
the credit  agreement would be self-funded by the Feed  in Tariff (FIT) payments 
alone;
the system would  not cost him a penny; and,
he would  make savings on his electricity bills.
The CMC also said: Mr M had been pressurised into signing the agreement  and buying the 
system; Shawbrook had failed to assess Mr Ms credit worthiness; he had no warranty  or 
guarantee despite being told the system would be under  warranty for 20 years;  and it hadnt 
been explained that the performance of the system would deteriorate slightly year on year.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr M and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section  75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC  provided a copy  of a document  
showing the outcome  of a hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  
dated December  2013, copies of marketing material used by P, a job advert for P, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mr Ms FIT statements. 
Ref: DRN35578982In its final response letter  Shawbrook said it didnt agree the system had been  
misrepresented to Mr M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.  In 
summary, it said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear and showed the cash  price of the system 
was £7,980.00 and the total amount payable, due to the associated  interest,  was 
£15,607.80;
the contract P had provided  Mr M set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made  it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there  would  be a cost involved;
the contract with P showed  the expected annual return in year one was £678.45,  
whereas the loan agreement repayments  were  £86.71 a month,  or £1,040.52 over 
the year, so there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits and the loan 
repayments;
P said Mr M had raised  no concerns  about  being pressurised into agreeing to the 
installation of the system  and the associated  finance, and he hadnt  exercised his 
right to cancel the contract within the cancellation period. To support this it had 
provided a satisfaction questionnaire in which Mr M indicated  no to the question, 
did you feel pressured by the surveyor into buying the system, and indicate yes to 
were you made  aware that, without exception, you had the right to cancel within 
seven working days  from the date the contract was signed ;
the contract with P says the inverter has a 20-year warranty and that the Home  
Insulations and Energy Systems Quality Assured Contractors Scheme (HIES) had 
separately provided Mr M with his warranty/guarantee;
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
as part of the loan application,  Shawbrook had completed a full credit check to 
assess Mr Ms credit worthiness and his ability to repay  the loan. Mr M had met its 
lending criteria;
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission to P for introducing Mr M to it.
Unhappy with this response,  the CMC  referred the complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. During our investigation Shawbrook provided 
copies of documentation between Trading Standards and HIES  in relation to P. Having 
considered all the information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr M and found  no reason to uphold  the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators  view. In summary,  it said:
Mr M didnt receive, review or see the electronic quotation that the investigator has 
based their opinion on;
 
the CMC  accepted  that the quote is partially  signed, however given that the quote  
isnt signed on page 10, this would indicate  the quote wasnt seen by Mr M;
Ref: DRN35578983when calculating the savings on Mr Ms electricity, P should  have been calculated at 
37% of the system generation;
the estimated  performance over 20 years  table doesnt compare the benefits against  
the loan repayments, isnt clear  and doesnt show Mr M would need to make  
additional contributions to his monthly loan repayments;
the graphs  on page 5 is extremely difficult for anyone  without  prior knowledge  of 
Solar, the Feed in Tariff scheme, savings with additional products to understand.  
Furthermore, the graph titled average  monthly returns over 20 years  is misleading 
as it shows from months April to August monthly returns in excess of £100 per 
month; 
the Owl device  Mr M opted  for as an optional extra  for his solar panel  system isnt 
guaranteed to generate  any savings.  Therefore,  P shouldnt have relied upon it when 
calculating yearly  benefits.
(On that final point,  Mr M did not include the Owl heating controller as an optional extra for is 
solar panel  system.)
The CMC also suggested we speak to Mr M for his recollections. When our investigator  
spoke to Mr M, he told us:
prior to his contact  with P, he was interested in solar panels,  however the 
government backed scheme providing  free solar panels wasnt available  in his area;
he initially registered his interest  for the system through an advert on a social media  
platform;
P visited him at his home  and talked with him about his options;
he understood the system would be self-funding from the point the system was 
installed;
he was induced to buy the system as he thought he would benefit from free electricity 
and the FIT payments would pay for the loan repayments;
he did receive some point of sale documents from P, but the quote wasnt  one of 
them.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35578984relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account relevant  law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  sections  56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It says:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against  P, the supplier. So, Ive taken  section  75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances  of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says any negotiations between Mr M and P, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted  by P as an agent of Shawbrook. For the 
purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This says:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  
and matters relating  to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
I have considered Mr Ms recollection of the sale. I note that Mr Ms recollections do differ  in 
some respects to the complaint letter  and Mr Ms statement submitted by the CMC. 
Ref: DRN35578985As an example, in the complaint letter the CMC  has said that Mr M received a leaflet through  
the post, whereas he told us he registered  his interest in the system through  a social  media 
platform before being contacted by P.
Having said that, there  are similarities  between the complaint submitted by the CMC and 
Mr Ms recollection of the sale,  for example that the system would be paid for by the FIT 
payments.
Mr M has decided  to be represented, by a CMC, in his complaint to Shawbrook. The 
complaint letter submitted  to Shawbrook was seven pages in length  and set out in detail the 
reasons for the section 75 claim and the alleged representations that were  made  that 
induced Mr M to enter into the contract.
The complaint letter is dated 5 April 2017, approximately  15 months after the date of sale,  
and I would expect  this to reflect Mr Ms recollection  of what happened  at the time the 
system was sold.
While I appreciate Mr M has spoken to our investigator and provided additional information 
that wasnt included  in the initial complaint made on his behalf, there is a significant  time 
difference between  the date the complaint  was made and the conversation with our 
investigator. I think this may explain the inconsistencies I have referred to above. I think that 
its reasonable to expect  the CMCs letter to accurately reflect  what Mr M says he was told 
and his version of events  at the time of sale, especially  as the CMC  has put the alleged  
representations in quotation  marks. So Ive placed  more weight on the submissions made in 
the original letter of complaint. 
key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mr Ms solar  quote, titled Your  Personal  Solar  Quotation. 
Ive considered these  and whether  they fit with the alleged representations made by P.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  what is 
likely to have happened at the meeting between Mr M and P.
As previously mentioned,  the CMC  contests that Mr M ever received the quotation 
document. Shawbrook  have  provided information  explaining Ps sale processes. This 
detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation  to be sent to the consumers shortly  
after the initial meeting via email.  Based on our experience of what  we have seen with 
similar complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mr M and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened  in this complaint. 
There is also the important point to note that while Mr M may not have signed  the quote  at 
page 10, he did sign later in the document and so this shows  the quote  did feature in the 
sales process was seen by Mr M.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ref: DRN35578986Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
the quotation
Mr M has alleged that he was told his monthly  loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income  
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote. 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr M could expect to receive a 
total income in year one of £476.44 from his FIT.
Page eight of the quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from his 
system. The expected  year one electricity savings is £228.04 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £704.48.  This is shown  in a table titled  Putting it all 
together.
The following  page, so page nine, has a section  titled  Repayments. Typically, in Ps 
quotation documents there would be three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. However,  Mr Ms quote only consists of the table for 180 months and this is the 
length of the loan that Mr M entered with Shawbrook.  The table sets out that there are 180 
monthly payments  of £86.70 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the 
system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr M could expect to receive from the system,  
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare his FIT income  to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does  set out that the overall  income he could expect  to receive  by way of FIT 
income and any additional  savings, would  not be immediately sufficient to cover his monthly 
loan repayments.  Therefore,  Im not satisfied  that he was told that his monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income  alone.
total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mr M has said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,980.00. He has said that 
this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest  associated  with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £15,607.80.
Im satisfied that the quote provided  to Mr M makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£7,980.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which  sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £7,980.00 and goes  on to show that the total amount payable would be £15,607.80.
And as the quote provided  by P is clear  that there would  be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above,  Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote  and the credit  
agreement, made it clear  that although the cost of the system  was £7,980.00, it would cost 
Mr M more  than this as he had decided  to pay for it with a fixed  sum loan.
Ref: DRN35578987Ill now consider whether  P told Mr M that the system  would not cost him a penny, and that 
he could expect to receive  a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £698.39.
Ive considered the table mentioned above  that sets out the expected income  from the 
system versus the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in a reasonable and 
accessible format comparing the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr M was expected to have made a 
loss of £27.99 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £25.23 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until year 10 that the expected benefits would exceed his monthly loan 
repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt  have  been until after the 15 year loan term 
that he would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual  losses and the system would 
be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Mr M was told that the system  would  not cost him a penny. 
I think the quote is clear  that there  would be a difference  between  his expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
In addition to this, page five of the quote  has a graph  illustrating the difference between  the 
expected income  and loan repayments.  Again in my view, this illustrates the expected  
shortfall between the expected income compared  to the monthly  loan repayments.  And 
again this means  it is difficult to conclude that Mr M was told the system  would  be self- 
funding when the documents available to him at the time do not show  that was the case.
I do accept that Mr M was told that hed receive a year one benefit  of £704.48 as this was
the expected combined income  from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy
bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that
Mr M was led to believe that hed receive this sum in his hand.  Im satisfied that the quote
makes it clear that hed have to make loan repayments and overall there  would be a deficit.
I also dont accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would  pay for itself over the term 
of the loan. Page 11 of the quote has a table  headed Estimated performance  over 20 years.   
This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits  that Mr M could  expect to receive  would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under  his loan agreement   so after the 15 year loan 
term. This table also sets out the panel  degradation  rate so Im satisfied  that P made Mr M 
aware that performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
The quote  document also refers to any warranty associated with the system or the inverter 
and whilst Mr M has said he doesnt  have  a warranty, Im satisfied that this is not the case.
Ive gone on to consider the performance  of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr M. The quote  sets out that the system is expected to produce 
2,929.28 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments 
and savings in his energy bills, that Mr M could expect to receive.
Between 16 June  2015 and 20 June 2016  (so over a period of 371 days),  the system 
generated a total of 3,192.15 kWh. I have calculated that the system generates, on average, 
8.60 kWh per day or 3,140.52  kWh a year. This is higher than the estimated  generation 
provided in the quote, so Im satisfied  that the system is performing in line with, or in excess  
of, the quote.
Ref: DRN35578988So, based  on this, I would  expect Mr M to be close to recouping  any initial  losses  from the 
system and for it to be paying  for itself. Mr M has said that this isnt the case  so Ive gone on 
to consider whether P have overstated the potential  income and savings Mr M could expect 
to receive by, for example  using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote  P provided to Mr M was personalised to his specific  circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate  the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy  generated by the system that 
Mr M would use rather than buying  it from his energy provider, therefore leading  to savings 
on his energy bills and the expected increase in utility prices  alongside  the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were  based on the 
Office of National Statistics  (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.  
The quote  sets out that Mr M was expected to use, or self-consume,  50% of the kWh 
generated by the system  each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual  saving of 
£228.04. This amount of saving would  increase  each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Mr M was expected  to self-consume were 
both reasonable  assumptions for P to have  made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Mr M could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information  from the ONS. The figure  used for energy price increases was 8.42% 
and for RPI was 2.92%.  Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased  in line with the estimates  
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests  that energy prices  have  increased  by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56%. Both figures are lower than the assumptions used by P and in my view 
explain why he isnt receiving the financial returns from the system that he may have 
expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS  from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont  think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate  the expected financial returns  from the system.  Im of the 
view that this goes  some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding  by year 
13 and certainly by the end of the loan term. Although I appreciate  Mr M will be disappointed 
by the financial  returns from his system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using 
unreasonable assumptions  when he entered into the contract for the system.
section 140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act.
Ref: DRN35578989A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided 
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along  
with the findings of the RECC non-compliance panel  hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about  P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mr M, or that it relates  to the time his panels were  sold.  Whilst it does 
refer to the system  paying for itself and being  self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place as 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr Ms personalised quote. 
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013,  over a year before 
Mr M entered into his contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided  information from 
Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve  
Ps sales process. This work  included  Trading Standards helping P to enhance  their 
business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation.  
This has ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC  findings  found concerns with Ps sales  practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed  above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mr M entering  into his contract and I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  along  with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Mr M raised  some concerns about Ps sales process, said that he was pressurised into 
entering the contract and fixed sum loan agreement,  and said a proper  affordability  check 
wasnt conducted.
Based on the available evidence that has been  provided Im of the view that the sales 
process wasnt unreasonably pressured  and taking account of the overall  cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont  think the length of the meeting with P at Mr Ms 
home was unreasonable.
Im also of the view that the checks on whether the loan was affordable to Mr M were 
proportionate. 
Mr Ms later  recollections
As previously explained, Mr M has provided additional information that wasnt included  in the 
initial complaint made on his behalf  and there is a significant time difference  between  the 
date the complaint was made  and his later recollections. And as I think that its reasonable to 
expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Mr M says he was told and his version of 
events at the time of sale, Ive placed  more weight on the submissions made in the original 
letter of complaint.
Ref: DRN355789810my final decision
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, Im not 
persuaded there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced  Mr M to enter  
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other  reason to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3557898