K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc mis-sold her a fee paying  Additions packaged 
bank account,  which it later changed to a Barclays Additions with Platinum account.
background
Mrs H wants to complain  about what happened  when her bank account was upgraded to an 
Additions account. 
Mrs H says she first opened an account with Barclays in 1984. Barclays  cant  confirm  that  
the earliest record it has of this account  is dated  23 January 1998   by which time this 
account was already  an Additions account.  
So its unclear  exactly when Mrs Hs account was upgraded  to an Additions account.  But, 
based on information weve seen about  Barclays  accounts,  we think  its reasonable for 
Barclays to say it launched the Additions account  in May 1996. This means that the earliest 
possible date that Mrs Hs account  couldve been upgraded to an Additions account was in 
May 1996. So, I think its reasonable to assume  that this was the date she was sold the 
Additions account.
In May 1996  when  the Additions  account was launched the account fee was £5 per month  
but it rose gradually over the years  that followed.  
Mrs H is mainly unhappy that it wasnt made clear that the monthly fee was for an optional 
packaged bank  account and her need  for this was never discussed. 
Mrs H complains that that these accounts included benefits she didn't need  or want  as 
Barclays was duplicating cover she already had set up. 
Barclays told us that Mrs Hs Barclays Additions  account was amended to the Additions with 
Platinum account  in December 2002.  I dont consider that it was a separate sale. Platinum 
Banking was a service  for longstanding customers who had multiple  products  with Barclays. 
It gave those customers extra benefits and services for no extra cost. This account change  
cost Mrs H nothing and she didnt  lose out in money terms when her account  changed to 
include Platinum benefits. For these reasons, I dont feel I need to say any more about  this 
so Im not looking into this aspect  of her complaint any further. In my decision, Im going to 
concentrate on the sale of the Additions  account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mrs Hs complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Ref: DRN34262012Mrs Hs banking history with Barclays goes  back a lot of years.  Theres  only limited  
information about some of the account changes she had during this time so it is a confusing  
picture overall. And I can see that when our adjudicator first wrote  to Mrs H about this 
complaint, we included quite a lot of details about an account that wasnt  something Mrs H 
wanted us to look at. 
As Im looking in my decision  just at the Additions account, Ive started  by thinking about 
whether Mrs H was given a clear  choice about taking it. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mrs H says. But what Mrs H says isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold her complaint.  I have  to make my decision based on what  I think 
is most  likely  to have happened taking into account  all the available information and looking 
at the wider circumstances.
Mrs H says the account fee wasnt transparent.  She told us that shed thought at the time it 
was just an operating  fee for having the account and seemingly just a transition in Barclays 
product offering". But before  Barclays launched the fee paying  Additions account in 
May 1996 I understand that Mrs H had previously had a free account  with Barclays. So 
I think that she wouldve  known free banking was still an option if thats what she wouldve 
preferred to choose. 
It appears the account was sold to Mrs H in a Barclays branch and she agreed to take it out 
by signing the acknowledgment form. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed or how Barclays  explained what  the Additions  
account offered.  But, on balance,  looking at what it offered and Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time, I can see that some of the account  features mightve been  of interest to her. On 
balance, I think its likely  she chose to upgrade because she thought that the key feature it 
offered  the overdraft benefits  that came with the Barclays Additions account - couldve 
been useful to her. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, and what this service knows  about the way Barclays  
sold the Additions account  around this time, I think its likely that Mrs Hs account was 
upgraded at her request  when she chose to do so.
It was up to Barclays to ensure that it gave Mrs H enough clear  information to be able to 
decide if the Additions account was right for her.
When it was first launched, as far as we know the Barclays Additions account provided a 
fee-free overdraft. Also, the first £100 of any overdraft was interest free. This was an 
immediate benefit  to Mrs H. And it looks like Mrs H was able to benefit quite substantially 
from this over the following years. So I think that she made a saving on the overdraft  usage  
fees she wouldve  otherwise had to pay when she had an overdraft. And the amount of 
overdraft interest she was charged  was less than it wouldve  been  if she hadnt had the 
benefit of the interest free portion that the Additions  account offered. Even  allowing for the 
account fee she paid to have the Additions  account, I think  Mrs H benefitted overall  by 
saving on overdraft costs  with this account.  
It was up to Mrs H to check  if she had any duplicate cover once shed decided  to have the 
Additions account - and to cancel any other insurance arrangements she had set up that she 
no longer required.
Ref: DRN34262013Mrs H says Barclays didnt properly explain the benefits  and she ended  up paying for 
benefits she didnt  need. Shes particularly unhappy  that the policy  conditions  meant  RAC  
breakdown cover wasnt something  she was able to benefit from having. But it looks like this 
wasnt a feature of the account  when  she signed up to it in 1996  the date Ive assumed she 
upgraded. Mrs H couldve  stopped  paying  for the Additions account and changed to a new 
fee paying account or gone  back to a fee free account  if she hadnt wanted  to continue 
paying for the Additions account  at any time. It was up to her to decide if the overall  benefits  
package was something she felt she could continue  to benefit from having.
It appears that the Additions account continued to offer Mrs H benefits  she felt were 
worthwhile  including some benefits  (like phone and gadget  insurance) that were added  to 
the account over the years, as well as continuing  to use the overdraft facility.
Even if Mrs H now feels she didnt get full benefit from everything the Additions account  
offered her, this doesnt mean that the account  was mis-sold. I think  that Mrs H was able to 
benefit overall from having the Additions account,  so this isnt a reason for me to uphold her 
mis-sale complaint.
Ive looked at all the information Mrs H provided and Ive thought about everything shes 
said. But having done so, I dont think that having  clearer information about the various 
policy benefits wouldve  put her off taking  out the Additions account  or that Barclays has 
treated her unfairly overall. 
I understand that Mrs H will be disappointed in my decision. But I hope that setting things out 
as Ive done will help explain  how Ive reached my conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3426201