K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited (MBFS) 
have asked her to pay to refurbish a car she has been financing through  them.
background
Ms H took receipt of a new car in May 2016.  She financed  the deal through  a hire agreement  
with MBFS. 
But when she returned the car at the end of the term she was disappointed to receive  a 
charge from them to refurbish a quarter panel.  MBFS  said this was dented  and the damage 
was beyond reasonable wear and tear, so they asked  Ms H to pay £260 to have this fixed.
But Ms H thought this was unreasonable and that, as the car was inspected  and collected on 
the same  day, she wasnt given enough  time to rectify the issue.
MBFS agreed to reduce  the charge to £195 but Ms H still thought  this was too much.
So she referred  his complaint  to this service and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She 
reviewed the damage against the industry  guidelines for fair wear and tear provided  by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) but she explained that the 
photographic evidence showed the damage to be well in excess of the 10mm dent allowed. 
She went on to consider  whether MBFS had given Ms H enough time to repair the car. She 
noted that the hire had been extended by a month  and she thought  this was sufficient time 
for Ms H to have repaired any problems  prior to inspection  and handover.  She explained that 
she had been  provided with a copy of the inspection standards  when she took receipt of the 
vehicle. So overall, she was persuaded that MBFS  were being fair when  applying  the new 
discounted charge.
But Ms H was still dissatisfied so she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms H but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  reasons.  
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms Hs contract with MBFS allowed them to charge her if she didnt maintain the vehicle in a 
condition consistent  with the vehicle  return standard they sent to her at the outset of his 
finance agreement.
Ref: DRN32505622That standard said that dents on high profile panels  are unacceptable
Its not clear what a high  profile panel  is. But I recognise that the vehicle return  standard is 
broadly in line with that proposed by the BVRLA  industry guidelines and I think its therefore  
fair to review  the damage against that standard for clarity.
That standard says that dents greater than 10mm in diameter are to be considered  beyond  
normal wear and tear and I can see that the damage to the car Ms H returned was 
considerably larger  than that. So I think MBFS were  entitled to charge for refurbishment and 
I think the charge  theyve  applied is broadly in line with other charges Ive seen for similar 
issues and Im persuaded its reasonable, especially now that theyve reduced  it to £195.
Ms H says MBFS  didnt give her time to rectify the fault but Im not persuaded by that 
argument. I think its most likely she was provided with the vehicle return standard when she 
took receipt of the car. So I think  she had the inspection standard  available  and I think its 
reasonable to suggest she could have inspected the vehicle herself and arranged repairs  
before the collection: especially as the agreement had been extended by a month.
So overall, Im not persuaded that MBFS have done  anything wrong here and Im not asking 
them to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3250562