K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank) 
background
Miss H took out one payday loan and nine instalment loans with Piggybank between January  
and August 2017.
Before this service became involved, Piggybank offered to put things right for loans six to 10. 
But the adjudicator recommended that Miss Hs complaint about loans one to six be upheld.
Piggybank doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation.  It says
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Piggybank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Piggybank should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Piggybank was required to establish 
whether Miss H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
Ref: DRN39202402the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
loans six to 10
Piggybank has already  offered to refund the interest and charges that Miss C paid on these 
loans together  with interest. As loans six to 10 dont  appear to be in dispute, I dont think I 
need to say much more  about them.
However, I do require Piggybank to remove loans six to 10 entirely from Miss Hs credit file. 
This is because by loan six, Miss H had taken out six loans in five months. So I think that 
Piggybank shouldve seen that Miss H was persistently reliant on short term loans. 
I think that Miss H lost out because Piggybank provided loans six to10 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed Piggybank money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
loan one to five
Before agreeing to lend the first loan,  Piggybank  carried out a check of Miss Hs credit file. It 
could see that Miss H had five defaults  and a delinquent account within the previous  three 
months. 
Although this was Miss Hs first loan with Piggybank,  I consider that the negative  information 
on her credit  file was a strong indicator that Miss H was struggling with money  and couldnt 
afford to repay loan one, or any of the subsequent loans sustainably.
I appreciate that Piggybank says the defaults  were  historic but it hasnt given  further details. 
However, I still consider  that the number  of defaults on Miss Hs credit search was clear 
evidence of the difficulties she was facing  managing  her finances. As a responsible lender, I 
wouldve expected  Piggybank to say no to loans that put Miss H further into debt.
So Im upholding  Miss Hs complaint about  loans one to five as well as loans six to 10.
Ref: DRN39202403putting things right  what Piggybank needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss H paid on all of the loans;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on the loans;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  before paying the 
remaining balance on the refund (if there  is any) to Miss H**;
remove any negative information  loans one to five from Miss Hs credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 10 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 10 should be removed from       
Miss Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Piggybank to take off tax from this interest.  Piggybank 
must give Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off ifs he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct  DJS (UK) Limited  (trading as 
Piggybank) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.  
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3920240