K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1998. Mr P says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr P says the PPI was sold to him over the internet. On the other hand, Capital One says 
the PPI was sold to Mr P via a postal application  and has provided a copy of the application 
form Mr P completed and signed. This form has Mr Ps name  and address printed at the top 
and instructions on how to return the form to Capital One. So based on what  Ive seen and 
been told I think its more  likely that this was a postal sale.
Mr P says it wasnt  made clear  that the PPI was optional. But looking at the evidence 
available from the sale, I think Capital One made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this 
now. I say this because  Mr Ps application  form included  both a yes and no option for the 
PPI - and the yes box has been  ticked to agree to the policy. Mr P signed the application 
form  so I think this reflected what he wanted at the time. And as this was a postal 
application, he did that in the comfort of his own home with, it seems, little involvement  from 
Capital One other than the provision of the agreement itself,  so he had the time and space to 
make that decision freely.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check  if the policy  was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr P got the information he needed  to decide if the 
policy was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr P says at the time he wouldve been  entitled  to some sick pay from his employer and he 
had some savings, so the policy  wasnt  needed. However, the PPI couldve paid out 10% of 
Mr Ps outstanding monthly  balance for up to 12 months. So it couldve cleared his credit  
card balance if claimed for long enough.  The PPI wouldve also paid out in addition to any 
other means  he had, so his sick pay and savings wouldve been free to use for other  
expenses. And Ive seen that Mr P had other credit cards, so its likely he wouldve also 
needed to maintain the repayments on these cards had he been  unable to work.  So I still 
think the policy wouldve  been useful for him.
So overall, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Ref: DRN33672762This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3367276