K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance Limiteds handling  of a claim 
under his buildings insurance policy after his property was subject to an oil spill.
background 
In March 2018, Mr Ms property was subject to an oil spill. The property was unoccupied at 
the time but in the past had been  let to tenants.
Mr M made a claim under his policy which Lloyds accepted. Its contractors investigated the 
extent of the damage and began remedial work.
Mr M said he would have  rented the property out again if it werent for the oil spill. He asked 
Lloyds to provide  cover  for loss of rent. However, it wouldnt agree to do so on the grounds  
that Mr M wasnt  able to demonstrate that the property had been about to be rented out.
Mr M was unhappy at Lloyds decision. He was also unhappy that its contractor had given a 
set of keys to a neighbour without  his permission, particularly as he felt the neighbour was 
untrustworthy. He also became  unhappy at what he saw as the very slow progress of the 
remedial work. He complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds issued a final response to Mr Ms complaint  in September  2018.
It maintained its decision to decline his claim for loss of rent as Mr M had been unable to 
provide a tenancy agreement and it therefore  felt he hadnt proved that he would have 
been in receipt  of rental income were it not for the oil spill.
It noted that the contractor had given a set of keys to a neighbour for safekeeping but 
without obtaining  Mr Ms permission. It further  noted that in April 2018  the contractor had 
apologised to Mr M for this and had agreed  to change the locks, including  the garage  
door lock, when the work was completed.  It understood  that Mr M had been content with 
this outcome. However, Mr M had raised the concern again in August 2018, and it had 
therefore asked  the contractor immediately  to change the locks  at that time, which  it 
considered had been a fair response.
It acknowledged that there had been some  delays in the progression  of the claim, as well 
as in providing Mr M with certain  information. It paid Mr M £250 compensation in 
recognition of these  delays.
Mr M was unhappy at Lloyds response. He referred  his complaint to us. He further 
explained that he had since discovered  items  had gone missing from his garage.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
Ref: DRN39311132Loss of rent
The policy states:
If your home is made uninhabitable by any cause covered under Buildings cover,  we will 
pay for  Rent  you should have received but have lost.
As Mr M points out, there is no obligation on him to provide  a tenancy agreement. However,  
to support his claim he needs reasonably to show that were it not for the oil spill he would  
have received rental income.
Mr M has shown  that between June 2009 and July 2016 his property was rented out virtually 
continuously (with the occasional gap between tenants adding up to less than three months 
in total over this seven-year period). In September 2016, two months after his most recent 
tenant had left, Mr M notified Lloyds that the property would be unoccupied because he was 
updating it. He continued to insure it as a landlord, including at its renewal in August 2017. 
He says that when the oil spill occurred, he had recently completed  the redecoration and the 
property was virtually ready  to be let again. I have  seen  photos of the interior taken by the 
contractor and consider  that these show the property  to be in a good state of repair.
It seems  to me that Mr M was updating the property to re-let  it. I consider  that it was nearly  
at the stage where he could have advertised it for letting when the oil spill occurred. 
Evidence shows that he had experienced little trouble in finding tenants in the past. 
I therefore consider  that, if it were not for the oil spill, he would have been able to install a 
tenant and receive  rental income.  He might not have been able to have achieved this 
immediately but I consider  it likely  he would have  done so long before September  2018, six 
months following  the incident, which is when  Lloyds issued its final response  letter.  
I therefore think Lloyds  was wrong  to continue to decline his claim during this time.
It is arguable as to when  Mr M would likely have had a tenant in place. However, I think  it 
reasonable to say that, allowing for final touches  to be made to the property, advertising, and 
the tenant being ready to move in, Mr M should  have  been expecting to receive  rental 
income from 1 June 2018, which  was just under three months from the time of the incident. 
I therefore consider  that Lloyds should pay the claim from this date.
In terms of the amount of rent payable, the absence of a rental  agreement  means this is 
again arguable. However, I consider it reasonable to say that Mr M could  have let the 
property for the amount the most  recent tenant  had been paying, plus a modest increase of 
5% to reflect inflation and the fact that the property has been  updated.  Mr M will need to 
provide suitable  evidence  in response  to this provisional decision to show how much rental 
income he was receiving from the most  recent tenant. If I dont see that evidence,  I may not 
make any award regarding lost rent.
Mr M has referred to other losses as a result of not having a tenant, such  as the fact he has 
to meet  utility charges.  For the avoidance of doubt,  the policy only provides cover  for loss of 
rental income. I therefore wouldnt  expect Lloyds to factor  in these other  costs  when settling  
his claim for lost rent. However, if Lloyds were to cause  delays which  meant the claim 
dragged on beyond the time it should  have been settled, it would be open to Mr M to ask for 
compensation from Lloyds for the additional  costs he was incurring due to having no tenant 
in place  such  a claim isnt dependent on the policy wording. As I shall later explain,  I dont  
consider that Lloyds  needs to pay such compensation  at this stage.
Ref: DRN39311133Keys and change  of locks
It is accepted that the contractor gave the keys to Mr Ms neighbour without his permission. 
Mr M has explained that the neighbour is someone  he doesnt trust. I understand the 
neighbour was given  the keys in March 2018.  Mr M learned of this in April 2018  and it was 
agreed that the contractor would replace the locks,  though there is a dispute  over when this 
was to take place.  The contractor says it was agreed it would take place when the work was 
completed whereas  Mr M says he understood it would take place immediately. I think  the 
latter is most likely as I cant see why Mr M would have agreed for the situation to continue.
In August  2018,  Mr M discovered  the locks still hadnt been changed and Lloyds therefore 
asked the contractor to do this immediately. However, Mr M says that while  the front door 
lock was replaced, the garage lock still hasnt  been  changed.
In the meantime, Mr M has reported items  missing  from the garage. He also says items may 
be missing from the house but that he cant verify this because he doesnt know what has 
been taken into storage.
The investigator recommended  that Lloyds pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress 
caused by giving his keys to someone without his permission and a further £150 to 
compensate him for the missing items. Mr M says the £150 wont  even  cover  the cost of one 
missing power tool and estimates his loss from the garage to be at least  £1,000.
Im satisfied that the contractor acted wrongly  in giving Mr Ms keys to the neighbour without 
his permission. I consider  that, particularly bearing in mind his comments on the neighbour, 
this will have caused him distress. I consider that it is fair that Lloyds pay him £150  
compensation for this. Furthermore, I consider  it should replace the lock on the garage which 
the contractor, in April 2018, had offered to do once the work was complete.
With regard to the missing  items, Mr M has vaguely  referred to hand tools and power tools 
but he hasnt provided either Lloyds or us with a definitive list of the actual items he believes 
to be stolen, along with their replacement cost. He has also raised the prospect that there 
may be items missing  from the house.
I consider that I am not in a position  to make an award on the missing items. Mr M has not 
yet confirmed his alleged total loss and Lloyds hasnt been given the opportunity  to consider 
this. I therefore consider  that, when he is able,  Mr M should compile a comprehensive list of 
all the items  he believes  have been stolen  from his property and how much  each would  cost 
to replace. This should  include items missing from the house as well as the garage. This 
may require  Lloyds giving him access to the storage  facility so he can see what  is stored  
there. Once  Mr M has compiled this list, he should  present  it to Lloyds, along with any other 
supporting evidence, for its consideration. If Mr M is unhappy with any offer of compensation 
from Lloyds, he may complain about  this to Lloyds and, if still dissatisfied, to us.
   
Delays
Lloyds accepts that matters could have  been progressed quicker and has offered  £250 
compensation. Mr M thinks this is insufficient.  Based on a timeline provided by his next-door 
neighbour, he believes that Lloyds  contractor was on-site for only 23 days during the first 
eight months of the claim. He says that Lloyds  was also slow to authorise work. He believes 
the combined effect of all this is that the escaped oil was allowed to cause further damage 
and that this has prolonged the overall claim.
Ref: DRN39311134I note that there are discrepancies between the neighbours  timeline and the contractors 
own diary of when it has been working  on-site.  I consider  the contractors diary is likely to be 
accurate. Furthermore,  while there have been periods when no-one was on-site,  Lloyds has 
explained that the type of work involved in a case such  as this is of a stop/start nature rather  
than requiring continuous activity. I consider this is reasonable.
There were occasions  where matters  could have been progressed  quicker  but Im satisfied 
that Lloyds offer of £250 compensation is fair. I consider that this type of claim can often 
raise complexities and thus take a long time to resolve. Therefore even if the claim had been 
handled without  any delays, I consider it wouldnt necessarily have been resolved by the 
time Lloyds  issued its final response  letter  in September 2018. I therefore  consider it is not 
the fault of Lloyds that Mr M was still unable  to rent out his property by this date and 
consequently it doesnt need  to pay him compensation for any additional costs  he may have 
incurred, such as utility  charges,  as a result of this inability. I should emphasise that I am 
considering matters only up to Lloyds final response letter of September 2018.  I understand 
that Mr M is intending to raise a fresh complaint about the progress of the claim since  then.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision though  he maintained that Lloyds had caused  
unreasonable delays and he disputed  its arguments  in defence  of its handling of the claim. 
He also said that the claim was still ongoing and that he had continued to experience 
problems with Lloyds,  including  its continued  failure to grant him access to the storage 
facility so he can see what is stored there. Mr M didnt  provide evidence of the level of rent 
paid by his most recent client.
Lloyds also accepted my provisional decision though it pointed out that its acceptance  of 
Mr Ms claim  for loss of rent would be subject  to the policys limit on this benefit. It also said 
that it would  consider his claim for compensation for missing items after Mr M had confirmed 
that the items werent  in storage and that he didnt have a contents policy with another 
insurer through which he could make  a theft claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rent
Mr M didnt  provide me with evidence of the rent paid by his most recent tenant as I had 
asked him to do. This would  have  allowed me to specify the amount of benefit  which  he 
should receive. I consider that my award  should  remain as it was but that Mr M will now have 
to provide the evidence of the previous  rent directly  to Lloyds so that it may calculate the 
benefit owing to him. Given that Lloyds will have to pay interest on this benefit, and it cant 
make any payment until Mr M has provided  the requested evidence, I consider it reasonable 
to put a time limit on Mr M to provide Lloyds with the evidence. He should do so within  28 
days of his acceptance of the final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I said that once Mr M had provided acceptable evidence,  Lloyds  
should pay him benefit for loss of rent in accordance with the policys  terms and conditions.  
Lloyds has pointed out that these  terms and conditions include  a limit on the benefit. I note 
Ref: DRN39311135the policy says that Lloyds  will pay total benefit  of no more  than 20% of the total sum insured 
(£400,000) for any one event which  means  the maximum benefit available is £80,000. Im 
satisfied that the policys  full terms and conditions, including the policy  limit, should apply. If, 
of course, the claim were to continue for so long that this limit was reached,  and Mr M were  
to consider that it was Lloyds fault that the claim hadnt been resolved sooner, he could ask 
Lloyds to pay him compensation for the continued  loss of rent and, if unhappy at its 
response, could  raise  this as a new complaint.
Keys and change  of locks
   
Lloyds says that for it to consider Mr Ms claim for missing  items, he would need to confirm 
the items  werent  in storage. I consider this is reasonable. However, this requires  Lloyds to 
allow him access to that storage which Mr M says it hasnt  yet done.
Lloyds also says it would need Mr M to confirm that he didnt have a contents policy  with 
another insurer through which he could make  a theft claim for the items believed to be 
stolen. I consider it reasonable for Lloyds to ask Mr M to confirm that he hadnt made, and 
wasnt going to make, an insurance claim for the missing items because he should not 
receive two lots of compensation for the same loss. However, if Mr M did have a contents  
insurance policy which might potentially offer him cover for the loss, I dont consider it 
reasonable for Lloyds to require Mr M to make a claim through  this rather than pay him 
compensation. This is because to make an insurance claim will take more  of Mr Ms time; it 
is likely  to have an adverse effect  on his future  premiums which  cannot easily be quantified; 
and there  is no guarantee that the claim would be successful given that the suspected thief 
was granted access  to Mr Ms property.
Delays
I note that Mr M disputes some of what Lloyds has said in its defence  of how it had handled 
the claim up until September 2018.  However, he also accepts the overall provisional 
decision. I remain of the opinion that the £250 compensation Lloyds has offered for the 
delays up until September 2018  is fair.
Mr M has also expressed concern about Lloyds handling of his claim since  it issued its final 
response letter in September  2018. To clarify matters  to Mr M, this decision deals only with 
Lloyds handling  of the claim up until that final response letter. Mr M is free to complain to 
Lloyds about its handling of the claim since that date. If he is unhappy  with its response (or it 
doesnt reply to his complaint within eight weeks)  he may refer the matter to us as a new 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold  
this complaint in part. 
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to do the following:
Subject to Mr M providing it with appropriate  evidence of the most recent tenants rent 
within 28 days of telling us he accepts this final decision, accept his claim for loss of rent 
from 1 June 2018 and pay benefit in accordance with the policys  remaining terms and 
conditions at this level of rent plus 5%;
Ref: DRN39311136Add interest to the above payments at the annual simple  rate of 8%, calculated  from the 
first day of the month  to which the rent relates, to the date of settlement;*
Replace Mr Ms garage  lock;
Pay Mr M £150 compensation for giving his keys to his neighbour without his permission;
When Mr M is eventually able to provide it with a comprehensive list of items he believes 
have gone missing from his property, and he confirms  no insurance claim for these has 
been made or is to be made, consider  his claim for compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3931113