K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has unfairly  
collected from him £235.93 for a damaged tyre.
background
VWFS supplied  Mr O with a new car under a hire agreement. When Mr O returned the car it 
was inspected and deemed to have  damage  in excess of fair wear and tear. This included £39 
for a chipped windscreen and £235.93 for damage  to the sidewall of the left had rear tyre.
Mr O complained to VWFS about  the charge of £274.93 it was seeking from him.
Having considered Mr Os complaint VWFS agreed to waive  the £39 charge for the chipped 
windscreen, but not the £235.93 charge  for the damaged tyre. It said that although the 
damage did not affect the road legality of the car, it was unacceptable cosmetic damage  
and fell outside  of the national rental and leasing standards.
Having already collected the sum of £274.93  from Mr O, VWFS refunded  Mr O the sum of £39.
Mr O didnt agree with VWFS retaining the sum of £235.93 so brought  a complaint to our service. 
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded, in summary, 
that although there was damage to the sidewall  of the tyre in question, and the BVRLA 
guidance says there should be no damage to sidewalls or tread  she had seen no evidence 
that this damage  had caused VWFS to suffer a loss. And because of this VWFS shouldnt 
hold Mr O liable for the sum of £235.93.  She also said that VW should remove  any adverse 
information it might have recorded with credit reference agencies in respect  of this sum.
Mr O accepted the investigators findings,  but VWFS didnt. VWFS said it was entitled to 
make the charge and stood by its decision to do so. It also made reference to a previous 
decision issued by our service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear VWFS  has very strong feelings about this complaint.  It has provided detailed  
submissions in support  of its view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that VWFS  will not take the fact that my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Under the hire agreement, which Mr O agreed to, VWFS is entitled to charge him for 
damage which is beyond  fair wear  and tear. The reason for this is that a car with a higher 
level of damage will likely  have a lower  resale  value than a car with a lower  level of damage.  
It wouldnt be fair for VWFS  to lose out financially because its car hasnt been maintained as 
agreed in the contract it has with Mr O. 
Ref: DRN35809162The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) is a trade body for the vehicle 
rental and leasing  sector. The guidance  it issues highlights damage  which  would be 
considered more than fair wear and tear on return of a vehicle.  For tyres  it says they must 
meet minimum legal requirements  and there  must  be no damage  to the sidewalls  or the 
tread. Ive taken this guidance into account, but I need to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Photos of the tyre shows there is a cut in it. But this isnt in dispute.  I think the cut counts as 
damage to the sidewall of the tyre. But from the photo in the report it appears  to be a small 
cut which  is hardly visible  unless seen close up. 
I acknowledge there is cosmetic damage on the side of the tyre. However, Ive also 
considered the nature  of the damage  alongside  normally expected wear and tear 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. Tyres inevitably need  replacing 
periodically and a buyer is unlikely to expect new tyres on a used car. So I think its unlikely 
the condition of the tyre in this particular case would impact the cars resale  value beyond  
what would  normally be expected for a model  of the same age and mileage. And I note that 
VWFS hasnt  shown this to be the case either.  
As Ive said,  it wouldnt be fair for VWFS to lose out financially  because  the car wasnt maintained 
as it should have been. I acknowledge  that VWFS  says it expected  the car to achieve  more at 
auction than it did. However, while it achieved less than it hoped for, Im not persuaded that minor  
damage of this kind would likely have impacted the resale in the way VWFS indicates.  From the 
(not entirely clear) photos Ive seen the damage seems to be barely visible.  
For all the reasons given  I dont  think that is the case here so I dont think its fair or reasonable 
for it to hold Mr O liable for the cost,  at £235.93,  for a replacement tyre. I also dont think  its fair 
for VWFS to record  any adverse information  about this sum with credit reference agencies.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
-refund Mr O the replacement tyre cost of £235.93;
-pay Mr O interest on the above  sum of £235.93, from the date it was collected to the 
date its refunded, at 8% simple a year*; 
-remove any adverse information about this sum with credit reference  agencies.
*HMRC requires  Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited  to take off tax from this interest. 
If Mr O asks for a certificate showing how much  tax has been taken off this should be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3580916