K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mrs A. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  Canada Square sold 
Mrs A the policy at the same time that she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs A and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Canada Square made  Mrs A aware  that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. I 
have seen evidence  of the online process and this required  the customer to actively 
choose whether  they want PPI. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable  for Mrs As 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It was up to Mrs A to decide  on that, taking into account what 
resources (such as employer sick pay and any savings) she would have  if she wasnt  
able to work through sickness or unemployment.  
The information Canada Square  gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  The formula for how much the PPI would cost was there on the 
application webpage, but it could  have been  put more clearly;  and it didnt say how 
long the PPI paid out for. But I dont  think, in Mrs As circumstances, full information  
about costs and benefits would  have affected whether she took the PPI. And it 
doesnt look like shed  have  been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the 
policy. 
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. But 
Canada Square  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs A about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mrs A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN34165962my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3416596