K820x#14complaint
Ms L and Ms W, represented  by their solicitor, AL, have complained  that Adrian Flux 
Insurance Services Group (Flux) mis-sold them a buildings insurance policy for an 
unoccupied property. Ms L and Ms W were unable to make a successful claim on this policy 
following a water leak, causing the property  to be sold for an amount less than expected.
As AL acted for the parties throughout, and for ease of reference,  Ill refer to AL throughout 
this decision.
background
Ms L and Ms W inherited a property in January 2017. The property sat empty whilst 
executors, a solicitor firm in which AL (whos  also Ms Ls husband) is a partner, settled her 
estate. The property required  insurance,  and AL arranged appropriate buildings insurance 
cover through Flux, a broker. This insurance  renewed in January 2018.
In March 2018 the property, whilst  still unoccupied, suffered a flood due to a burst  water  pipe 
in the loft, causing significant damage. AL tried unsuccessfully to claim on the insurance  
policy. The claim was rejected because the property wasnt  heated above 15 degrees  during 
the time in question   the policy contained a specific clause saying that escape of water 
claims would  only be covered in the winter months if either the utility mains were  switched 
off/water drained,  or the property remained heated at that temperature.
AL complained they were  unaware of that requirement when the policy began, or at renewal 
- had they known, they would have ensured the heating remained on. However, Flux pointed 
out this clause was clearly  set out in the policy documents sent to AL, and this specific  
requirement had also been separately highlighted in letters before the policy  was taken out, 
and prior to renewal. Flux believed theyd taken all appropriate steps to notify AL of this 
clause, and it was their responsibility  to have read the documents  before agreeing to take 
out the policy.
AL brought their complaint to us, but one of our investigators agreed that Flux hadnt done 
anything wrong   he didnt think the relevant term was unusual in the context of a policy  for 
an unoccupied  property, and Flux had done enough  to highlight the term. Unhappy with this, 
AL asked an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been told the property  has now sold, but at a price £65,000 less than had been expected 
after an initial buyer pulled out. This is a significant reduction in value, which AL thinks is 
partly down to the flood  damage not being  fixed. Im also aware  this all happened at a time 
when AL were  dealing  with the loss of a close relative, causing further upset. However,  
notwithstanding this, Im afraid I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.  Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN36460772There are a number of facts not in dispute here.  AL provided detailed and accurate 
information in relation  to the property  to Flux when  taking out the policy, and again when it 
renewed. Also, the policy Flux arranged contained  a clause stating escape of water  claims  
wouldnt be covered  in the winter  months if the water supply was left connected but the 
heating not kept above a constant 15 degrees.  Its also not in dispute  the water  supply was 
left connected,  but with the heating turned off during the relevant period.
I want to begin  by considering if the relevant clause was unusual.  The Adrian Flux 
Unoccupied Property Insurance policy document contains the following, at page  five and six:
What is covered
Water or oil leaking or spilling from any fixed domestic water or heating installation, 
swimming pool, hot tub, jacuzzi, spa, aquarium, washing machine, refrigerator, freezer 
or dishwasher.
What is not covered
Loss or damage unless  during the period from 1st November to 31st March all mains 
supplies are turned off and the water and central  heating systems are drained or the 
central heating system  is kept running  to maintain a temperature  of 15 degrees  
centigrade throughout the private residence
This policy is designed to insure unoccupied  private  residences. In the winter, an unoccupied 
property can succumb  to frost damage causing unused  pipes  to burst.  So, having a clause  in 
the policy to try to mitigate this type of damage appears sensible.  So I dont think its an 
unusual clause  in fact its likely to be found  in other similar types  of insurance product.
But is it onerous?  It certainly requires  the property owner to do something  the policyholder 
has to either  turn the mains off, or heat the property  constantly throughout the winter  
months. I dont think turning the mains/water off in an empty property  is onerous   I think  this 
could be said to be common  sense.  However, requiring a property to remain  heated is, I 
think, an onerous condition, if only because it requires constant heating (in this case) for five 
months, which could be expensive.
That being  the case, I need to decide if this onerous condition was notified clearly to AL. 
There are a number of key exchanges  between Flux and AL that persuade me this condition 
was clearly notified.
Flux sent a policy quotation to AL in early  January  2017. On page two Important  
Information, under  the Additional Notes  section, it says:
Escape of Water or Oil claims are excluded during the period from 1st November to 
31st March unless all mains supplied are turned off and the water  and central  heating  
systems drained, or the central heating system must  be kept running to maintain a 
temperature of 15 degrees centigrade throughout the property.
I think this clearly sets out the condition  its been highlighted by Flux as a key policy  
clause. AL phones  Flux the following day to accept the insurance.  Flux then send/email the 
policy, schedule and a statement of relevant facts to AL over the subsequent weeks - 
although I note the above clause isnt highlighted in these communications.
Ref: DRN36460773Taken together, I think  Flux did enough to highlight the relevant clause at inception. I think  
Flux was entitled to assume the policy was purchased after AL had read and agreed to the 
information contained in the early January 2017 quotation letter.
The policy renewed  in January 2018 - which is important because  its during this period of 
insurance the flood  occurred.  Flux emails a renewal invitation to AL in early January 2018.  
Attached is a renewal  document. On page  2, under the Excesses, endorsements  and 
conditions section, it repeats the text mentioned above. AL phones Flux to renew  the policy 
a week or so later  AL was asked if he was happy with the terms and conditions,  and he 
confirmed that he was.
Here, and for the same reasons, I again think Flux had done  enough  to highlight the relevant 
clause at renewal.  In both instances, based on what Ive seen, it seems  clear to me Flux was 
aware of the importance of that particular clause, and ensured it was highlighted to AL 
before the policies  were taken out. I think they made it sufficiently  clear  to AL, as 
professional representative who acted as the sole point of contact. I think Flux were  entitled 
to believe they had done, and indeed had done all they needed  to do in these 
circumstances.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Flux did anything wrong in how they communicated and sold 
the policy to AL. It follows I cant say that Fluxs actions have in any way contributed to the 
reduced selling price of the property, and so I wont be asking them  to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3646077