K820x#14complaint
The business name on this complaint has now changes to AXA France  IARD  this is because 
AXA France  has now taken responsibility for this complaint, To keep things simple, Ill refer 
to AXA France as the seller in my decision.
Ms O says AXA France mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2002. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. In my provisional decision sent in September 2019 I 
explained why I didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. In I said:
AXA France  had to make  Ms O aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Ms O applied for her card 
and PPI but AXA France had provided a copy of the available paperwork. Ms Os store  card 
application form had a separate section for PPI which  Ms O signed  to take the policy.  Ms O 
has also signed the application in agreement with the selections that were made on it. So I 
think she would have  known she didnt have to the PPI, and she chose to have it. 
AXA France  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms O so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms O got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Ms O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
to make her repayments, which included  sick pay. Ms O told us she would have been 
entitled to generous sick pay when she took out her card and based on this our adjudicator  
didnt think the policy was suitable  for her. Although it has since  been confirmed that Ms O 
was entitled to much less sick pay. As the policy would have paid out in addition to Ms Os 
sick pay, and for longer I think  she would have  found the policy  useful.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Os circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Neither Ms O nor AXA France provided any further  information in response to my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further  information,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN35725162my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3572516