K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about interest  applied to his credit  card account  by Virgin Money  plc.
background
Mr P is represented by a relative in bringing  his complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
all submissions as having been made by him directly.
Mr P successfully applied  online for a Virgin Money credit card. He opted to make the 
monthly repayments by Direct Debit. When he received his first statement, he saw that only 
the minimum payment  was due to be taken. Mr P tried to amend this using online banking 
because he wanted  to pay the full statement balance  each month.
But when he received the next statement, Mr P noticed that only the minimum payment had 
been taken. Consequently, interest had been applied  to the account. He complained to 
Virgin Money and asked them to refund the interest.
Virgin Money didnt  uphold his complaint because they couldnt find any evidence  that Mr P 
had tried to change the Direct Debit amount. So they say the interest has been charged  
correctly and cant be refunded. They say that when Mr P applied  for the credit card,  he was 
informed that the Direct Debit would be set up to take the minimum payment and that he 
would need to change this later using online banking if he wanted  to pay a different amount. 
They say his statement  also confirmed that the minimum payment would be taken. 
Mr P now realises that he didnt complete  the final step of the online process to amend  the 
Direct Debit. It has now been amended. But Mr P is unhappy that hes had to pay interest  for 
the initial period.  He says he genuinely  thought he had amended the Direct Debit  to take the 
full statement balance  and it was a mistake that he didnt complete the process.
Our investigator looked into it and thought that Virgin Money had acted  fairly.  But Mr P didnt 
agree and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  He says hes never  
known a credit card company to take the minimum payment as the default position.  And he 
says that Virgin Money have since changed  their approach  to this. He thinks they should 
refund the interest as a gesture of goodwill.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the information available to me, Im satisfied that Mr P was aware before the first 
repayment date that the Direct  Debit was set up to take only the minimum payment. Virgin  
Money say that this information was displayed  as part of the online application process. But 
even if Mr P didnt see that, his first statement made  it clear. And Mr P says it was as a result 
of receiving this statement  that he went online to change the Direct Debit  amount.
It was clearly Mr Ps intention to amend the Direct  Debit so that the full balance would be 
paid each month. He says he thought  he had done all that was required and that it was only 
when he received the second statement that he realised the change  hadnt been processed.  
He says he realised  then that he hadnt  pressed the submit button  to complete the 
instruction to change  the Direct  Debit.  I can understand that this was frustrating for Mr P. 
But I dont think Virgin Money have done  anything  wrong here. 
Ref: DRN31171142They made it clear that they would take the minimum  payment each month and that Mr P 
would need to change the Direct  Debit instruction if he wanted to pay a different  amount. 
Mr P tried to change the instruction.  But Virgin  Money  couldnt  have known he was trying  to 
do so. They  would only have become  aware  of his intention to pay the full amount if the 
instruction had been completed through the online banking service. And Mr P accepts that 
the reason it wasnt completed was due to his mistake.
So the Direct Debit instruction hadnt  been  changed  at the time the first payment fell due. 
Virgin Money therefore took the minimum payment as theyd said they would.  Theyre  
entitled to charge interest where only the minimum payment  has been made. So Im satisfied 
they were entitled  to charge interest  here.
Mr P says hes not aware of other banks taking only the minimum payment as the default  
position. Im not looking at other  businesses here but, even if some do have a different 
approach, that doesnt automatically mean that Virgin Money  have acted unfairly. Mr P says 
they have changed their approach in the meantime.  I dont have any information about that 
but, even if its the case, it doesnt  follow that Virgin Money have acted unfairly  here. Im 
satisfied that they made it clear they would be taking the minimum payment. And Mr P knew 
this because he tried to change it. His attempt wasnt successful but I dont find that to be 
Virgin Moneys fault.
I did ask Virgin Money  if they would  be willing  to refund the interest to Mr P as a goodwill 
gesture. Theyre not willing to do so and its for them as a business  to decide when they 
might want  to make such a gesture. But I dont think theyve done  anything wrong here,  so I 
cant fairly direct them to refund the interest  to Mr P.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117114