K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms L have complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  when they took out a mortgage with National  Westminster  Bank  Plc 
(NatWest).
background
Mr M and Ms L took out a PPI policy when they borrowed £99,000 using a mortgage. The 
repayments were just over £500  a month and the mortgage  was due to last 25 years. The 
policy cost £27.14 a month and paid out £265  a month if either Mr M or Ms L were unable  to 
work due to accident, sickness or were  made  unemployed for up to 12 months in any one 
claim (£530 a month  if they were  both out of work).
Mr M and Ms L have said they didnt feel like they had a choice when taking out PPI and the 
terms of the insurance  werent properly explained.  They say they had other means to make 
the payments  if they were out of work.
Ms L had suffered from a medical condition before the policy was taken out that she would 
have found it difficult to claim for if she was out of work because  of it. Once NatWest was 
made aware  of this, it agreed to pay 50% of the cost of the PPI to Ms L. But it said PPI 
hadnt been mis-sold  to Mr M as he would have  been able to claim under the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think PPI had been  mis-sold  to Mr M, but he disagreed,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Ms Ls complaint. 
NatWest has accepted that PPI wasnt right for Ms L and offered to pay her 50% of the cost 
of PPI. She has accepted this offer, so I wont consider  it further in this complaint. 
Having considered the available  evidence, Im not going to uphold  the rest of the complaint, 
but Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN34111522did Mr M and Ms L have a fair choice to take out PPI?
Mr M and Ms L have said NatWest recommended that they take out PPI, but they felt 
pressured and it wasnt made clear  PPI was an optional product. Mr M and Ms L think there 
was a duty on NatWest  to check their circumstances and find out if PPI was suitable  for 
them. NatWest has said that it didnt give Mr M and Ms L any recommendation about PPI, 
but it gave them information about  the product and they chose to take it out.
NatWest has sent us a copy of some of the documents available  from the time. As the sale 
took place some time ago I cant be sure what was said about PPI, so Ive looked at all of the 
paperwork and taken  into account what both Mr M and Ms L and NatWest  have said 
happened.
Ive seen that there is an application form for PPI where Mr M and Ms L signed up to take 
the PPI. Ive seen  that they selected cover against  accident, sickness  and unemployment 
and chose for both of them to be covered, as well as choosing the level of cover.  On the 
form both Mr M and Ms L have  signed  to take out the PPI and right below that there is a 
section for them  to indicate  if they didnt want to take out PPI  this section has been left 
blank.
Ive also seen the mortgage application  form and I cant see that it was ever said they 
needed to take out PPI to get the mortgage. 
Ive seen that a conversation about PPI took place,  that they then had to apply separately for 
PPI, filling  in a form that set out the monthly cost and benefit. I think  PPI was discussed, 
presented as optional and Mr M and Ms L chose  to take it out. This doesnt fit with what they 
have said but Im not surprised if their recollections arent clear as they took out the PPI 
nearly 20 years ago and memories naturally  fade with time.
were Mr M and Ms L given information that was clear, fair and not misleading?
NatWest has said that it didnt advise Mr M and Ms L about  taking out PPI, but they say 
something different.  Having looked  all of the available information I cant  see that any 
tailored recommendation was given, taking  into account their circumstances. So NatWest 
had to give Mr M and Ms L enough information  so that they could decide whether to take out 
the PPI. 
Ive looked at the documentation thats been provided and I cant  be certain they were given 
all the information  about the policy that they needed. For example, I dont think Ms L would  
have thought the policy was right for her if it had been properly explained that she might 
have found it hard to claim for her medical  condition. But I think  that Mr M would have 
bought the policy even  if he had all of the information when they signed  up for it.
I say this as Mr M wasnt caught  by any restrictions in the policy  and would have been 
eligible for the full benefits. And although Mr M had some sick pay in place, he thinks for up 
to twelve months, the policy would  have paid out on top of any sick pay which  could have 
been of some help if he was out of work. Ive also taken into account  that Mr M had some 
savings and was entitled to redundancy pay, but again  the PPI would have paid out on top of 
these, so he could  have used these savings  or redundancy for other  living expenses at what  
could have been a difficult time. 
Ref: DRN34111523Mr M has said his parents could have  helped out financially if he needed it. Although I dont 
doubt his family would want to help, there was no guarantee that they would  have been  able 
to at the time. And I dont  think  Mr M could have relied on selling his car or any equity in his 
house to pay his mortgage if he was out of work. Finally, it appears Mr M could afford the 
policy and I havent  seen anything showing that he had a need to keep his costs  down.
So I dont  think that knowing  more about  the cost and benefit  would  have put Mr M off taking 
it out. And I think he would have  taken out PPI to cover his half of the mortgage payments 
even if Ms L didnt take out PPI. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr M and Ms L paid on Mr Ms part of the  PPI  and 
whether NatWest treated them unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr M and Ms Ls PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  their commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   
so I dont think NatWest treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr M and 
Ms L back any of the commission they paid for the Mr Ms part of the PPI. 
But NatWest  has offered to pay back half of the total cost for PPI, with interest, to Ms L. I 
understand its already done  this and I think that is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Ms Ls complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3411152