K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way The Mortgage Shop (Barnsley)  Ltd (TMS) dealt with 
their application  for a mortgage. Mr and Mrs W want compensation for the cost of purchasing  
the freehold interest by credit card.
background
TMS assisted Mr and Mrs W as broker in applying for a mortgage in 2018.  The mortgage 
was approved but then the lenders  solicitor noted that the lease had only 54 years to run 
which was less than the lenders minimum  of 70 years. So Mr and Mrs W decided  that in 
order to move forward that they would buy the freehold. The lenders solicitor  required the 
purchase of the freehold before it would allow the mortgage to proceed.  Mr and Mrs W paid 
for this by credit card. But because  of the time it took to register  the freehold  purchase the 
mortgage offer expired and the lender told the broker that the matter would need to proceed 
as a new case. But the new application  was refused by the lender.
Mr and Mrs W were in a debt management  plan (DMP) and told their broker  that was the 
case. The broker submitted an application telling the lender that the applicants  hadnt made 
an arrangement with their creditors  although under another  section of the application  headed 
commitments it did say that they were in a DMP. Mr and Mrs W say that TMS should  have  
told the lender  about the DMP.  Our investigator  felt that TMS had made an error in not telling 
the lender about the DMP but felt that Mr and Mrs W would always  have had to buy the 
freehold to get a mortgage. His view was that TMS should pay £150 to Mr and Mrs W for 
their disappointment at not getting a mortgage  once they had bought out the freehold. Mr 
and Mrs W disagreed saying in summary that TMS  were very unprofessional and 
misinformed them for about  a year. TMS also disagreed as it didnt believe it passed wrong 
information to the lender about  the DMP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W make a complaint against TMS  as they eventually didnt get a mortgage. They 
made two applications.  TMSs job was essentially to source for them  a suitable mortgage 
offer. Mr and Mrs W got a mortgage  offer from a lender but a problem arose  because  the 
remaining term of the lease was less than their proposed lender and indeed most lenders 
would accept. The lenders solicitors raised  the issue  of the length of the lease. To solve that 
problem Mr and Mrs W bought the freehold  but their solicitors couldnt complete the 
registration of the freehold before the offer lapsed.
I cant see that TMS were at fault for the failure  of this application. TMS wouldnt have known 
the length of the lease - as Mr and Mrs W didnt - and the problem this would  have caused.  
Quite a time elapsed  between when this issue was discovered and eventually  solved by Mr 
and Mrs W buying out the freehold. But TMS  wasnt responsible for either advising on the 
purchase or suggesting  the payment by credit  card or the delay in registration. So, I consider 
that TMS performed its primary job of sourcing Mr and Mrs W a suitable mortgage and I 
dont uphold that part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN30511972The second  application failed for a number of reasons  including  the increased debt that Mr 
and Mrs W now were in because  of buying  the freehold by credit card. But it seems it 
wouldnt have succeeded in any case because it became apparent  that Mr and Mrs W were 
in a DMP. It seems that this wasnt picked up in the first application because under the 
question have the applicants  ever been declared bankrupt  or made  arrangements with 
creditors  TMS answers  no which was incorrect and unfortunate as TMS clearly refers  to it 
later but under the commitments section looking at what monthly payments Mr and Mrs W 
were making. I believe that this was an innocent error. I know TMS feels  strongly about this 
but it is an error as the DMP should have  been referred to in the relevant section of the form 
that asked the question  about arrangements. This error seems to have led the lender to 
issue an offer it wouldnt otherwise have issued. But the DMP was picked up by the lender 
on the second application.
I consider that TMSs unintentional error and the success of the first application would have 
led Mr and Mrs W to reasonably  believe  that the second application would be successful. 
For that reason  I believe that its fair to uphold that part of the complaint and award Mr and 
Mrs W £150 for their upset at this loss of expectation.
       
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and award Mr and Mrs W £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3051197