K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc (then  trading as Halifax)  mis-sold Mr and Mrs D 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2006 to cover  a 
mortgage. Im not, in this decision, looking at any other products  that might  have  been  sold 
at the same  time. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say they were cajoled into taking the PPI and that Bank  of Scotlands 
methods, knowing that we were extremely anxious to secure  new funds, were to get us to 
take on the payment protection irrespective of whether we could afford it or not. They  say 
the offer of a mortgage with PPI was presented as a scenario that would almost  certainly  
secure us the funds  that we needed  and so we opted for this. Mr and Mrs D also say:
it was described, as we remember, as a safety  net. We agreed to the insurance  at 
the time as we had a young family  and the idea of a safety net assuaged a concern 
about a worst case scenario of perhaps losing a roof over our heads.  We do not, as a 
rule, take out (knowingly) payment protection or products such  as extended 
warranties as we believe them to be simple income generators. However our home 
at risk was a persuasive argument
They say they went for the mortgage  illustration  that overall had lower monthly costs, but 
which included PPI, rather than the higher cost illustration that didnt include PPI in the 
illustration. By way of background, I would say that the higher monthly-cost mortgage was 
because it was for a shorter repayment period. I can also see that the lower-cost/longer-
repayment-period illustration did describe the PPI as optional insurance  this is just under 
where it said that having buildings  insurance was a requirement, but that you do not have to 
take out through Halifax.
Mr and Mrs D are effectively saying  that they were subjected to undue pressure to take the 
PPI. The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly advise someone to buy an insurance  policy, even if the adviser  is partly  motivated 
by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  recommending.  And, 
although the value of PPI to cover certain  types  of borrowings might sometimes  be 
questionable, it is true that there  might  be serious consequences if you cant  pay your 
Ref: DRN37198452mortgage. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say 
the bank did something wrong unless I had stronger  supporting evidence  of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply. I will explain why.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
their particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ds situation at the time. Its 
likely Mr D (the person covered) was eligible  for the policy. And, as Ive said, finding yourself 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mr D received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. 
It would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it seems 
Mr and Mrs D didnt have savings or other means  of help to fall back  on  theyve said they 
had life insurance and critical illness insurance, but these wouldnt have helped in the many  
cases of sickness absence or in case of redundancy. 
So the PPI could have put Mr and Mrs D in a more secure position, if theyd eventually  lost 
income due to long term sickness  or unemployment.  And it seems they were likely  to be able 
to afford the PPI when they took it out (even  though I acknowledge they wanted  to keep their 
costs low). 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs D to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (though I also acknowledge they say they felt 
pressured into taking  it  which Ive addressed above.)
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs D would have  understood 
how much  it would cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr D would have been affected  by any of these.  And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3719845