K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains the Society of Lloyd's (SoL) delayed her landlord insurance claim, for fire 
damage to a property  she owned.  She says she suffered financial losses  and upset as a 
result.
background
In October  2017, Mrs A made  a claim on her landlord insurance policy for fire damaged. In 
early-2019, she made a complaint about  the progress of the claim, and SoL offered £350 
compensation. Mrs A remained unhappy,  so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  partially upheld Mrs As complaint. He recommended a further £300 
compensation be paid due to the delays during the claim, in addition to the £350 SoL had 
already offered. Because  Mrs A disagreed with our investigators outcome, her complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
The claim has moved on since the complaint was first referred  to our service. Some  issues  
have been resolved, whilst new issues have been  raised. I understand the following to be 
the issues that Mrs A would like me to consider:
-The time taken to agree the settlement for the remedial works, and the delays during 
the scoping and tender process.
-The financial losses  Mrs A says shes suffered due to: a fall in the property market, 
changes to rental income tax rules, and her fixed rate mortgage ending.  She says 
these losses wouldnt have been  incurred if the claim hadnt been  delayed. 
-The cost of a replacement boiler and cooker,  which Mrs A says stopped working  due 
to being inactive for so long.
-Loss of rent for two additional months  after the insured works were completed,  but 
whilst the boiler  was replaced and then the appropriate  landlord certificates  were  
obtained.
-The cost of replacement locks after they were  tampered with and damaged whilst the 
property was unoccupied; council tax charges  whilst the property was unoccupied; 
and garden maintenance costs due to the property  being  unoccupied for so long.
-The cost of resolving  a damp issue which  Mrs A paid for and says was caused by the 
fire being extinguished.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will set out my findings under the following three headings: claim delays and financial 
losses; replacement boiler  and loss of rent; and locks, damp, cooker, council tax and 
garden maintenance.
Ref: DRN33835182claim delays  and financial losses
When the complaint  was referred to this service the claim was subject  to ongoing tender and 
scoping discussions; and its not clear from the information  we have been provided whether 
the claim was then cash settled, or a contractor from SoLs  network completed the works. 
However, I understand the scoping  and tender considerations  were resolved about 18 
months after the claim was made, and the works  were completed a few months later.
I accept that for a claim  of this value  its likely  to take some time to determine the required 
works and the reasonable costs.  I also accept some delays here were  due to the ongoing 
discussions between SoL and Mrs As loss assessor. However, 18 months is a relatively 
significant amount  of time for a claim settlement to be agreed  and Ive not been shown 
anything that persuades  me the time taken  was unavoidable or reasonable. 
We havent been provided with much detail by either  party about why it took so long for the 
scoping and tender issues to be resolved. But our investigator concluded that SoL had 
unnecessarily extended  the claim process by about  nine months and neither party has 
disputed his estimations,  so Ive kept that period of delay in mind.
Mrs A is claiming for several financial losses which she argues shes suffered due to SoL 
delaying the claim. Im sorry to disappoint  Mrs A, but Im not persuaded I can reasonably  
make an award for the losses she is claiming for. Ill explain  why.
Mrs A put the property  up for sale after the repairs were  completed, and she says its market 
value was substantially  less than what it would have  been  a year before. She also says she 
suffered a loss due to rental  income  tax rule changes, and her fixed rate mortgage ending,  
during the claim. Mrs A argues she couldnt  offset  these increased  costs by increasing the 
rent or by selling the property, or obtain a more preferential mortgage  rate, whilst the 
property was uninhabitable. Instead, her rental income was limited  to the loss of rent 
payments being  made by SoL, as per the tenancy agreement in place  when the fire 
occurred.
Mrs A hasnt provided anything that shows she would have achieved a higher sale price,  or a 
higher rental income, if the property had been  marketed sooner  or to show  how quickly  the 
property would have  sold or tenants  been found. In any event, the property wasnt  subject to 
an offer from a prospective  buyer  or tenants during the claim, so I cant reasonably  decide  
that Mrs A lost out here as a result of the claim being delayed.
I also havent seen  anything that shows Mrs A was unable to re-mortgage  the property whilst 
the claim was ongoing; or to persuade me she would  have taken this route,  rather than trying 
to sell the property,  had the repairs been  completed sooner. 
I accept the claim delays would have been  frustrating for Mrs A, and caused  her some upset. 
I also note some loss of rent and a payment for flooring were delayed, which caused some 
difficulties. However, it wasnt Mrs As own home that was affected, and SoL was covering  
the rent she was losing  due to the tenants  having  to leave the property.  Taking everything 
into consideration, Im persuaded  that £650  is fair compensation for the impact  the claim 
delays can reasonably be said to have had on Mrs A. So, Im not awarding her anything  
more.
 
Ref: DRN33835183replacement boiler  and loss of rent
The boiler wasnt damaged by the fire. However,  Mrs A says that it stopped working due to it 
not being used for so long, and she points towards  the delays during the claim. SoL made  a 
50% contribution towards her replacement boiler  costs. Mrs A would like all her boiler costs 
to be reimbursed and two months  loss of rent to be covered whilst the boiler was replaced, 
and the necessary landlord certificates  obtained.  
The boiler was relatively old, and it was on the manufacturers obsolete list. We havent been  
shown anything that supports the delays  caused it to stop working, or that it would have still 
been working had the works  been completed  sooner.  Its possible that it may have come  to 
the end of its serviceable life during the time it was switched off, even if it had been in use. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that SoLs claim delays were the main reason the boiler 
stopped working,  and given it wasnt damaged by the fire, Im satisfied SoLs 50% 
contribution was fair.
Mrs A says that shes lost out on two months rent whilst the property  was without a working 
boiler, which was discovered after the fire damage  repairs were completed  and her loss of 
rent payments had ended.  However, the property was then sold rather than being let out 
again. Therefore,  Im not persuaded I can reasonably conclude Mrs A lost out on rent 
because of the boiler situation. 
locks, damp,  cooker, council tax, and garden maintenance
Based on the information we have received, its my understanding that SoL hasnt previously  
considered a claim for the locks,  cooker, council tax, or garden;  or a complaint about  its 
decision on the damp at the property. These items  also werent considered by our 
investigator.  
This means  I cant  fairly  decide those  issues  here.  I would be pre-empting  SoLs  outcome. If 
Mrs A wishes to pursue  these points, she needs  to raise them with SoL first.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
My final decision is the Society of Lloyd's  should  compensate Mrs A £650. If the £350 
originally offered has already been paid,  it only needs to pay a further  £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3383518