K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Greystone Financial Services Limited (Greystone)  gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer from his AXA Sunlife personal pension  plan (AXA plan) to a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  and another personal  pension plan (PPP) in January 2004.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision sent to both parties 
dated 6 May 2020. In summary  the following should  be noted:
On the recommendation of a Greystone adviser  (the adviser), Mr B transferred from his 
employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) to the AXA plan, which  came  into force on 
2 February 2003.  Following the transfer,  Mr Bs pension funds were split into protected  and 
non-protected benefits within the same AXA plan. 
On 23 December 2003 Mr B was advised  to switch  his AXA plan to a SIPP  and another PPP 
which operated  in a similar way to a SIPP but that was capable  of holding protected  benefits. 
This was to enable Mr Bs planned drawdown and increase his investment options. At the 
time of the transfer on 29 January 2004,  Mr Bs pension  was worth £715,572. He transferred 
£377,232 to a Transact  PPP (protected  benefits) and £338,340  to A J Bell SIPP (non-
protected benefits).
In terms of the Transact PPP,  the adviser recommended  Mr B invest the total amount held in 
Transact to Greystones Absolute Return Portfolio (the portfolio) with an asset allocation 
as follows:
2% Cash
18% Bonds (fixed-interest)
20% Equities
60% Hedge funds
Greystone didnt receive a commission for establishing the Transact PPP. It did, however, 
receive initial commission of 2.5%  on the original underlying investments, along with an 
annual management  charge (AMC) of 0.7% of the portfolio funds. Other charges included:
Initial commission - 0.5% to Transact  PPP and 0.2450% to the investment house; 
AMC - 0.6% to Transact PPP and 0.9778% to the investment house.
The adviser noted in respect  of the hedge funds, which were  in fact funds  of hedge funds, 
that the aim of the majority of Alternative  Investment  Strategy (AIS) funds (Hedge Funds) 
is to produce results that are not directly correlated  to equity, bond or currency  markets. The 
adviser said he considered this investment  offered Mr B more flexibility  than traditional  unit 
trusts.
The A J Bell SIPP asset allocation  was as follows:
31.85% Cash
9.80%  Bonds (fixed-interest)
10.88% Equities
32.67% Hedge Funds
7.38%  Structured Products 
Ref: DRN399007027.39%  Property
The bonds,  equities and hedge funds were  part of the model portfolio. The adviser  
recommended holding 31.85% in cash totalling  £104,085. This was to account for Mr B 
potentially taking his pension income and tax-free  lump sum of 25%. 
The property investment was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS) with a 
total of £25,000 of Mr Bs pension fund invested  in commercial property. In a letter  dated  
10 March 2004,  this was amended with the adviser  recommending a different UCIS  called  
Merchant Place Property Partnership 34  Fulham Broadway scheme (Merchant Place). 
The UCIS represented approximately 3.5% of Mr Bs total pension fund.
In October  2006 Greystone provided  Mr B with details of the commission charges in relation 
to the funds held in the A J Bell SIPP. It noted  no commission was received for establishing 
the SIPP, but that Greystone did receive commission on the underlying  investments  of 3%, 
with the exception of Merchant Place where it was 2%. Greystone noted that the AMC on the 
funds held at that time (October 2006), ranged from 0.5% to 0.6% depending on the fund.
Mr B was due to start his income  drawdown in 2004  but when he didnt get a permanent role 
with his employer,  he continued with consultancy  work. It wasnt until he stopped working in 
2006, that he began an income drawdown  firstly  with the A J Bell SIPP  (July  2006), and then 
with the Transact  PPP in August 2007. 
Mr Bs personal circumstances at the time of the advice in late 2003 were  broadly as follows:
-He was in his late 50s and was married  with no dependent children;
-He was hoping  to get a permanent role with the employer with whom he did 
consultancy work;
-His main assets consisted  of money  owed to him by his employer for two months 
consultancy work  of £14,000  and £18,000  under the employers SAYE scheme; 
-He jointly  owned his home  valued  at around £400,000 with no mortgage; 
-He had an ISA and PEP holdings with a total value of around £37,000.
On 9 December  2008 Mr B let Greystone know that he wanted to terminate  their 
relationship. Just prior to this, hed instructed  a new adviser who provided him with a full 
review of his assets including  his pension funds. And on 11 December 2008, amongst other 
things, the new adviser  recommended  that Mr B transfer and consolidate  his pension funds 
into his A J Bell SIPP. This would mean all of Mr Bs pension funds would be held in one 
plan, which  was possible following removal of restrictions  to protected benefits being  held in 
SIPPs from 1 October  2008. The transfer to the SIPP completed on 25 March 2009.
Mr Bs complaint
A few years after moving to a new adviser in late 2008, Mr B complained to Greystone about 
the advice hed been given to switch from the AXA plan.  He didnt think  the investments hed 
been advised to make when he transferred from his AXA plan had been  suitable for him. In 
particular, he didnt  think the UCIS held in the A J Bell SIPP should have been 
recommended to him as it wasnt suitable  for someone with his risk profile.
Greystones initial  responses to Mr B focused  largely on issues  relating to whether  the 
complaint was time-barred. Once it was decided by this service that the complaint  was within  
the relevant time limits, our adjudicator  issued  a view on the merits of Mr Bs complaint and 
Ref: DRN39900703Greystone provided  a detailed response  to this. Our adjudicator also considered a number of 
separate complaints from Mr B both about  the original advice to transfer from his OPS,  and 
also subsequent  new purchases of specific UCIS within his SIPP and PPP,  which are not 
being decided  in this decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint about  the 2004 pension  switch  his view mainly 
focused on the suitability of a UCIS  investment held within the A J Bell SIPP. In brief, he 
didnt think the UCIS  was suitable given Mr Bs risk profile of low/medium. Greystone 
disagreed with the adjudicators view.  
Given no agreement could be reached by the parties, the matter was been  passed to me for 
a decision. I issued an initial provisional decision in May 2020  where  I considered the whole 
portfolio, including the UCIS, was unsuitable.  Following representations  from both parties, I 
amended my redress in a second provisional decision dated 10 September  2020   this was 
sent to both parties.
Greystone disagreed with this second  provisional decision. In summary Greystone said that:
The ombudsman has only provided 28 days  for the pension  redress to be calculated 
which is in stark  contrast to the 90 days period for Mr Bs OPS transfer complaint;
Due to Mr Bs other complaints there is a risk that he will be overcompensated.
In addition to the points  that Greystone made  specifically about this complaint, it also raised 
a number of points about Mr Bs other  complaints. As it may appreciate,  as they are 
separate complaints and final decisions have now been issued, I can make no further 
comment on any of these  cases.                                                                                                                                            
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said in my second provisional 
decision Im satisfied that the arguments  I made in my first provisional decision form a fair 
and reasonable basis  for upholding this complaint. The relevant section  that now forms a 
part of my final decision is as follows:
Before I explain  my reasoning, whilst  I appreciate the strength of feelings on both sides,  it 
isnt my role to address all the questions and issues that each party has raised. My role is to 
concentrate on the issues directly  relevant  to the outcome of the case and to make a 
decision based on what I think are the central  issues. So whilst Ive taken into account 
everything thats been submitted, I may not comment on every  single  point thats been 
raised.
Further, when considering this complaint, whilst I understand why Mr B focused on the UCIS 
when he brought  his complaint to us, he also questioned the advice around the pension 
switch more widely. So Ill need to consider the overall SIPP portfolio when reaching my 
decision rather than any one particular investment  recommendation.
Ref: DRN39900704Mr Bs attitude to risk
At the time of the advice in 2003  and 2004, the adviser said that the portfolio matched Mr Bs 
attitude to risk and it had been classified low/medium. I think the clear inference  Greystone 
were making was that Mr Bs attitude to risk was low to medium.  But even if this is the case, 
I dont find that description  particularly helpful.  So Ive considered what the parties 
understood by this term to mean  at the time.
A fact find doesnt seem  to have been completed  before  the advice was given. One was 
completed in respect of the transfer from Mr Bs OPS to the AXA plan a year earlier. For this 
transfer, Mr B was considered to have a low to medium risk profile. Greystones explanation 
of this profile said that someone in the low risk category could expect to invest  100% in with-
profits funds  and a medium risk profile was someone that would invest 50/50%  with-profit/  
managed funds. I note in this same fact find, Mr B said that his number one priority was the 
security of [his] pension fund.
While this fact find was completed more than a year before the switch from Mr Bs AXA plan 
to A J Bell SIPP and Transact PPP, Im not persuaded his circumstances had changed to an 
extent that his attitude to risk had increased  to anything higher than low to medium.  Im also 
satisfied that given Mr Bs number  one priority  was to secure his pension fund, this put him 
on the lower side of medium. I think this is also supported by Greystones own records  which 
at times describe  Mr B as a cautious investor. And I think  the evidence supports that while  
Mr B mayve  been willing to take a small degree  of risk to achieve his objectives, I dont think 
the evidence supports  Greystones more  recent  view that he was willing to take a higher 
than average degree of risk, with his pension funds.
The advice  was it suitable?
When Mr B was expressing dissatisfaction with the rate of growth of his AXA plan funds, and 
was thinking of drawing down  on his pension, the adviser recommended that he transfer his 
funds to a SIPP. Whilst it wasnt  possible to do this with all of his funds because his 
protected benefits could not be held in a SIPP, this transfer did enable him to invest  the vast 
majority of his funds  in the Greystone absolute return portfolio. This portfolio consisted 
largely of hedge funds or more accurately, funds of hedge  funds.
In total between his A J Bell SIPP and Transact  PPP, Mr B invested more  £409,599 in the 
hedge funds. To put this another way, 57% of Mr Bs overall pension fund was invested in 
hedge funds on the advice of Greystone. Along with the UCIS, this meant  that a high 
proportion of Mr Bs pension funds were  following  Alternative  Investment Strategies. So I 
need to decide whether this suited  Mr Bs attitude  to risk.
A description  of each  fund was outlined in the material enclosed with the recommendation 
letter dated  13 February 2004.  According  to a description of one of the hedge funds, its 
objective was to achieve long term capital appreciation by aiming to produce  consistent 
positive absolute returns accompanied by low levels of volatility.  It goes  on to say that 
Preservation of capital is of primary importance and it is aimed that negative  monthly 
returns will be rare. Similarly, another hedge fund is described as a relatively low risk 
asset class, due to the fact that the fund has an exposure to a variety of different  styles of 
hedge fund management ranging  from convertible  arbitrage, event-driven, market-neutral 
and long-short  equity positions.
Ref: DRN39900705While these descriptions say hedge funds are relatively low risk, they also suggest 
something much more complex  and speculative than Id expect a low risk investment to be. 
In respect of one hedge fund for example, the suitability report  includes details of the areas 
in which  the fund would be investing including in the secondary market in distressed debt  
and exploiting  pricing  anomalies in the international fixed  income  markets.
Greystone says the hedge funds were suitable as they acted as a diversifier  in Mr Bs 
portfolio thereby reducing overall risk. Whilst I accept what  Greystone are saying, that its the 
mix of investments that matters, and that it may not be unreasonable  to have some 
alternative or less conventional or traditional  assets, overall, the portfolio should still reflect  
the investors attitude to risk having regard to Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances. 
That didnt, in my view, mean putting nearly  60% into hedge funds in Mr Bs case.
Greystone say that Mr B understood the risks and agreed to them. But I dont think its about  
whether he agreed  to what  the adviser was recommending or signed  to say he agreed to the 
risks  the point is that Greystone should not have advised him to invest as he did. I think the 
overall risk profile of the portfolio constructed for Mr B was above the low to medium  
investment strategy  hed wanted to adopt.  And I consider if Greystone had advised  
differently, to invest in funds that were suitable  for him, I think, on balance,  Mr B wouldve 
followed that advice.  In any event, the descriptions  of the hedge  funds provided to Mr B 
focused on the most positive outcome, so I can understand why he did agree to the risks as I 
dont think this was a true reflection of the risks they posed.
I also think the risks were increased by the level of fees impacting on the potential  returns.  
As these  were funds  of hedge funds this wouldve meant an extra  layer of fees. The AXA 
plan, from which Mr B switched, had fees of 1%. Following  the transfer the costs significantly 
increased as a result of several different parties being involved in running the fund. This 
included the platform  itself, as well Greystone, the investment  house  and underlying  funds. 
In respect of the funds held with Transact PPP, the AMC of all of these parties were 
predicted to be more than 3%. And similar charges wouldve been replicated in the A J Bell 
SIPP given the same portfolio made  up more  than 54% of this. So the impact of the 
additional charges would  most certainly  have impacted on Mr Bs returns, which  he was 
relying on to provide him with a pension.
As well as the hedge  funds, Mr B was also advised  to invest £25,000,  or 3.5%  of his overall 
pension fund in the UCIS,  Merchant Place which was invested in a commercial property. 
From it description provided  to Mr B by Greystone, this investment came  with a high level of 
gearing and was not regulated so it didnt carry the usual regulatory protection.  Further, 
there was no ready secondary market and it was illiquid until the partnership  chose  to sell.
Greystone says its advice  should  be judged against the standards  of the time. But at the 
time of the advice,  Greystone  was required by its regulator to provide suitable advice. To do 
this it wouldve had to take into account Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances as well 
as his understanding of the risks of investing in these alternative investments. Ive not seen 
any evidence that Mr B understood what gearing was and why that increased the potential 
rewards, as well as the risks - or appreciated the risks involved  with high risk strategies such  
as investing in distressed debt or exploiting pricing anomalies in the international fixed  
income markets.
Ref: DRN39900706Greystone dispute  that Mr B didnt have  the required level of knowledge to understand these 
investments. It says he was a sophisticated  and engaged investor so hed a good 
understanding of the risks. Theres a form that was purportedly signed by Mr B in 2008 to 
confirm his status as a sophisticated investor - Mr B disputes ever signing this document. 
But as it was signed well after this advice was given in 2003 and 2004,  I dont  think it 
relevant to this complaint. In any event,  whilst  Mr B had some  experience  of mainstream  
investments involving equities and fixed-interest  securities by this time, I dont think he could 
be regarded as a sophisticated investor because of this. Instead,  I think  he was still largely 
reliant on the advice  he was given. And as Ive said, I think these alternative investments 
were more complex and sophisticated in nature than hed invested  in previously.
I dont agree with Greystone that the suitability reports  and literature were clear   I think the 
information given  to Mr B generally downplayed the risks and I think  more  shouldve been  
done to draw his attention to the potential risks. I dont think the way the funds  were  
described allowed  Mr B to fully appreciate the risks involved. And with the pension soon to 
be his only source of his income, something he wished to keep  secure and with very little 
other assets from which he could draw  an income, I think the importance of this, in my view,  
becomes greater. This is particularly the case due the significant exposure of his portfolio to 
these alternative investment strategies.
Ive noted Greystone emphasises the importance of diversification of a model portfolio in 
minimising the risks. But while  I understand this principle, any investment recommended  
must also be suitable. And given 60% in total of Mr Bs model portfolio was recommended  to 
be made up of riskier alternative  investments strategies,  which were not guaranteed to 
achieve the lowering of risk overall, I dont  think Greystone took sufficient steps to diversify 
his portfolio so as to bring it within his risk profile.
Ive also considered whether later recommendations helped balance  the portfolio  so it met 
Mr Bs risk profile.  The amount invested in hedge funds did go down over time. But even 
excluding later property  investments  (UCISs), which are the subject matter of separate 
complaints, I consider  there was still a significant proportion of Mr Bs portfolio  in higher risk 
investments. For example, in a letter dated  10 May 2006, the adviser recommended  
changes to Mr Bs model portfolio investing  in: 7% fixed-interest funds;  37.5%  UK Equities; 
12.5% International Equities; 20% Total Returns; and 23% property funds.  So even 
excluding the property funds, the majority  of Mr Bs pension fund was still invested in what  
Greystones own risk rating considered to be higher risk investments.
Finally, I should say that I can see there  was a significant amount of cash  held back  in 
Mr Bs A J Bell SIPP. As noted  above,  this was to protect some  of the value in case he 
decided to take the tax-free cash in the short term. I dont think that was necessarily an 
unsuitable thing  to do if Mr B was genuinely  concerned about not getting the permanent  role 
with his employer,  which he thought  might  mean  he needed to start spending his pension.  
And as he did drawdown in 2006 the advice still wouldve been needed as at this point. I just 
think he wouldve invested  differently in line with his low to medium  attitude to risk.
So in summary,  I consider  Mr B was investing  the majority of his funds in higher risk assets 
that did not match his attitude to risk and those risks werent balanced  as Greystone claim, 
by investments into lower  risk assets. The overall risk presented by the recommended 
portfolio was, in my view, greater than the level of risk he was willing to take when looking at 
the advisers description of the funds  and based on Greystones  own risk scale. 
Ref: DRN39900707Following my first provisional  decision, I addressed Greystones further  submissions. In 
essence, Greystone  considered my first provisional decision unreasonable  because  there  is 
a risk that Mr B will be overcompensated  both in terms  of the redress dealing  with the 
financial loss and the award for the distress and inconvenience. In response I said the 
following:
The key issue for Greystone is the separation  of Mr Bs complaints and the consequences 
that flow from this. By way of background, an ombudsman issued a separate decision on 21 
February 2019, in which he decided that Mr Bs complaints  were  within  our jurisdiction  in that 
they had all been brought within the relevant time limits. In this decision along with a letter  
dated 25 July 2018, the ombudsman set out, in detail, why he considered  the concerns 
raised by Mr B were  six distinct  complaints.
In terms of the current complaint, I can see he noted that The proceeds of the [OPS]  
transfer were initially invested in reserve, with-profits and fixed interest  funds  and they 
increased by about 5% in value from £681,327 to £716,058 by January  2004, when the 
switch to A J Bell and Transact SIPPs took place (complaint 2). These SIPPs  employed  a 
model portfolio,  as part of which the Merchant  Place  34 property investment was used.
Having considered this again, Im satisfied that this is a separate complaint. I accept the 
proceeds of the OPS  transfer were used to fund the AXA plan, which were then used a year 
later to fund the A J Bell SIPP and Transact PPP. Whilst  there  is a link with the funds, the 
advice to switch  from his AXA plan was based on separate advice taking into account  
different issues and a different product was recommended.
In terms of the redress formula for the financial loss, I accept that this is complicated 
because now all of Mr Bs funds are amalgamated  together,  so deductions have to be made  
to account for Mr Bs other  complaints. Whilst this is unfortunate, Im satisfied the advice 
Greystone gave to Mr B to transfer out of the AXA plan is a separate complaint from all the 
other complaints, so this necessitates separate redress. 
It was the intention with the formula Ive used to take into account the other complaints Mr B 
has with this service  by deducting the later UCIS  investments  from the calculations  and 
using an index to benchmark how Mr Bs AXA plan should have performed after he switched 
to the SIPP  and PPP. 
In effect the benchmark provides a midway point between on the one hand,  what the OPS 
would have been worth  if Mr B had not transferred (which is a complaint Ive already 
decided), and on the other hand,  the likely further reduced value of the A J Bell SIPP  and 
Transact PPP as a result of the second  switch in January 2004. By referencing both the 
OPS transfer complaint  and the subsequent switch complaint  against  this same benchmark,  
this should ensure Mr B is not being  overcompensated in relation to what he has actually 
lost.
However on reconsidering Greystones comments about this, Ive become aware  of a clerical 
error in the previous formula I gave which meant the calculation didnt achieve this. I 
apologise for this. I inadvertently stated that any investments made into UCIS  that were  the 
subject of later complaints  should be deducted from the calculation of the fair value from the 
point they were made. However I should  also have taken into account  that on several 
occasions, contributions  were first made into the SIPP  that were  similar  (but not always  
identical) to the amounts invested  into these  UCIS.
Ref: DRN39900708Ive changed the formula below so that contributions made into the SIPP are added to the 
calculation of the fair value, but investments made into UCIS that are the subject  of 
subsequent complaints are deducted.  This effectively means that:
-If the subsequent  UCIS Mr B has separately  complained about were  always  funded 
by a gross contribution  into the SIPP that was identical  to and on the same day as 
the UCIS  investment, the two amounts would exactly cancel  out and play no part in 
the calculation,  as Greystone would expect;
-Where there are slight  amount and/or timing differences, any residual amount will 
form part of the calculation for this complaint as this amount  forms part of the 
ongoing investment  of the other funds within the SIPP.
I hope it will be easier for Greystone to see from this that no amounts are being  double-
counted in the compensation  being awarded across several complaints.
 
I acknowledge Greystones point that because of the number of complaints Mr B could 
receive more in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. Whilst Ive looked  at each 
complaint on its merits, Ive taken into account  that unlike his other  complaints, in this 
complaint about  the SIPP/PPP switch Mr B wasnt being told his investment in the UCIS 
which featured (Merchant Place) had lost some or all of its value. I can see that Mr B did 
actually sell this particular  UCIS at a profit.  So having looked at this matter again, I dont 
think it would  be fair to award a payment for distress  and inconvenience in this particular 
complaint so have  removed this from the redress.
Greystones remaining points were about  wanting to see provisional decisions on the other 
complaints first, and on the tax adjustment to compensation. In summary, I explained  that I 
wouldnt be making my final decision on this complaint until Greystone has heard further 
from me in respect of all the other complaints.  I also said that it was my intention  for the tax 
adjustment which I set out below to be calculated only once and the same  adjustment 
applied to each  of Mr Bs remaining complaints.
Having reconsidered  all the evidence in response  to my second provisional decision,  I dont  
consider that there is anything that has changed my mind. Whilst I appreciate how strongly 
Greystone feel about this issue,  the points theyve  made in response  to my second 
provisional decision are a repeat of the issues raised in response to my first provisional 
decision. I responded to these points in full in my second provisional decision and have now 
included them in my final decision  above. 
I also note Greystones point about  the length  of time that it has to undertake  the redress  
calculations for this particular complaint of 28 days.  This is in line with our standard  
timescales for this type of complaint, which isnt affected by the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys redress methodology for defined benefit transfers. Greystone have now had the 
benefit of a provisional decision  setting  out the intended redress. I dont see any reason to 
depart from a 28 day timescale in this case.
For all the reasons set out above,  Im upholding Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and require Greystone Financial  Services  Limited to 
calculate compensation as follows:
Ref: DRN39900709-Compare the performance of Mr Bs A J Bell SIPP and Transact PPP with that of the 
benchmark shown  below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Greystone Financial Services Limited must pay a sufficient amount into 
Mr Bs pension  plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. Its payment must allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. 
Greystone Financial Services Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. 
If Greystone  Financial Services Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  If Mr B is likely to have been a higher rate taxpayer had any losses  
resulting from the complaints hes brought about Greystone Financial Services Limiteds  
advice from January 2004 onwards  been  included in his pension fund, the reduction would 
equal the current higher rate of tax. However,  Greystone Financial Services  Limited should 
identify as part of its calculations if Mr B would have  been able to take higher  amounts of 
tax-free cash at the times, he took tax-free  cash from his pension  (if a loss was already 
showing at that time) and adjust the reduction its making for income  tax accordingly.
To give only an example,  if any higher amount of tax-free cash  Mr B wouldve been able to 
take in 2006/7 but for Greystones  advice from January 2004 onwards, with further growth 
added to the date of my final decision in line with the benchmark shown below, happened  to 
now correspond to 20% of his total losses from that advice   this would mean 1/5th of the 
compensation now being paid should not be reduced to allow  for income tax. So if the rest of 
the compensation wouldve resulted in income taxable at 40%,  the overall reduction to be 
applied to compensation in this and other complaints Mr B has brought  about Greystones 
advice from January 2004 onwards  would  amount  to 40% x 4/5ths = 32%. The precise 
percentage should be determined by Greystone Financial Service  Limited during the process  
of carrying out its calculations and is the same for all of the complaints  about advice from 
January 2004  onwards.
Mr B may consider hes able to demonstrate that a part of the lost pension benefits resulting 
from the complaints  hes brought about Greystone Financial Services Limiteds advice from 
January 2004  onwards, wouldve been taxed at the lower rate of 20% - meaning  the 
composite rate above would change  accordingly.  I would expect Greystone Financial 
Services Limited to consider appropriate  evidence provided by Mr B if he considers this to be 
the case.
-Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format:
-
Ref: DRN399007010Investment 
nameStatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end 
date)from the end 
date to the 
settlement  
dateAdditional  
interest
A J Bell SIPP 
and Transact 
PPP 
(including 
Merchant  
Place 34 
UCIS) now 
consolidated 
with A J Bell 
SIPPfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total  
Return 
Index; for 
the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondscommencement 
dates  of the 
SIPP and 
personal 
pension  in 
January 200425 
March 
2009  
acted on 
the 
advice of 
his new 
adviserAny loss 
determined 
against the 
A J Bell SIPP 
value as at 25 
March 2009  to 
be adjusted in 
line with the 
Benchmark  to 
the date of my 
Final  Decision 
 8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of
settlement  
(if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
adjustments to be applied to the actual and fair values
Mr B invested in several further UCIS which are subject to separate complaints. Therefore 
the amounts he invested in these UCIS should  be deducted so that they cease accruing any 
return in the fair value from that point onwards. The value or proceeds of these investments 
(if any) as at the date of the actual value on 25 March 2009 should also be excluded  from 
that value:
September 2004 investment into Rock  Acton  Gate
May 2006 investment into Close 2nd Quartet
January 2007  investment into Rock City Park
August 2007  investment into Rock UK Industrial
September 2007 investment into two Brandeaux  UCIS funds
July-August 2008 investment into Sycamore II Property  and top-ups to the 
Brandeaux UCIS funds
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable at the end date of 25 March 2009 from surrendering 
any funds in Mr Bs SIPPs which have not been  excluded as a result of the adjustments  set 
out above. My understanding  is that all the funds not thereby excluded would have been 
liquid and can therefore be valued  by requesting  a historical value from A J Bell and 
Transact PPP as at that date. This value  will naturally also be after the impact of any 
withdrawals of gross income  and tax-free cash which were actually made from the A J Bell 
SIPP and Transact  PPP.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark, after making the adjustments set out above  and also allowing for the 
same gross contributions and also withdrawals of gross income and tax-free cash as Mr B 
actually made and withdrew from his A J Bell SIPP and Transact  PPP.
Ref: DRN399007011To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Greystone 
Financial Services Limited  should  use the monthly  average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 
12 to 17 months maturity as published  by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each month  is 
that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
-Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital;
-The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital;
-The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return;
-I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 January 2021.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3990070