K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) provided to him under his 
Roadside Assistance policy after his car broke  down  whilst he was abroad.
background
In August  2018  Mr S was abroad with his family, when his car broke down. So, he contacted 
the provider of his roadside  assistance cover, Ageas,  in order  to make a claim.
Mr S has explained that his car was taken  to the nearest garage to where it broke down. But, 
this garage didnt have the capacity to complete a repair  on the car. And Ageas  wasnt  able 
to find another  garage to complete the repair  either.  So, it decided  to repatriate  the car to the 
UK the following week. And transport Mr S and his family home.
Because of this it agreed to provide hotel  accommodation  to Mr S and his family for that 
night, and to pay for a flight  home  for them the next day. But, Mr S has said he experienced 
a number of problems with these arrangements being made.  He said it took some hours for 
a hotel to be arranged. So he and his family didnt have anywhere to go until this was sorted 
out. And, they had to wait for hours by the side of the road before a taxi arrived  to take them  
to a hotel they could  have  walked to. 
Mr S also said the communication in respect of how he and his family were to be returning to 
the UK was poor. He said he and his family  were  initially booked on a flight  to Heathrow. But 
this was later changed to a flight to Gatwick. And that he was told a taxi would pick them  up 
from the airport to take them to his home  address. But, Mr S noted that when they got to the 
airport the taxi wasnt  there. They were  picked up by this taxi two hours  late, because the 
taxi driver had been given the wrong contact details for Mr S.
In addition, Mr S raised concerns that he was told he would receive a hire car to use until his 
car was returned to him. And, that there were delays  with his own vehicle being repatriated.
Ageas agreed  there were  difficulties with booking the hotel and taxi, and that its 
communication with Mr S could have been  better. It also said the repatriation  of Mr S car 
was avoidably delayed  by about 10 days as a result of some  errors. It apologised for these 
issues, and offered Mr S an amount of £150  compensation.  But, it said it hadnt  told 
Mr S he was entitled to a hire car  and that his policy didnt provide this cover.
Our investigator considered this complaint, and asked Ageas to increase the compensation 
offered to Mr S, so he was provided  with £300  compensation  in total.  She said Mr S didnt 
receive adequate  updates, which greatly  impacted  his customer journey. And he had to 
repeatedly call Ageas to find out what was happening with the hotel and taxi arrangements.  
She also highlighted the administration errors that happened  when  Mr S car was being 
repatriated. In light of these  issues she felt an amount of £300 in total more  fully recognised 
the distress and inconvenience  Mr S had experienced.
Mr S agreed with our investigators view. Ageas didnt agree. It said it couldnt be held 
responsible for there being no hotels  and taxis available  and it had arranged this as quickly  
as possible. And there was no cover under  the policy for Mr S to be provided  with a hire car. 
It noted there were  delays  in the repatriation  of Mr S vehicle  but said it felt the £150  it had 
originally offered was fair for the inconvenience  this caused Mr S.
Ref: DRN37049682Because Ageas didnt agree this complaint has been to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint, for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator. Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at Mr S roadside assistance  policy, to see what  cover  it provides. I can see that if 
Mr S car breaks down the policy provides for Mr S car to be taken to a garage for repair. Or, 
if the car cant be repaired, the policy also allows for the vehicle, Mr S and his family  
members to be transported to Mr S home address.
Ageas took the decision to repatriate Mr S car, and transport him and his family  home  
because there were difficulties with arranging a repair of Mr S vehicle. So, Im satisfied it 
has acted in line with the terms and conditions  on Mr S policy when  handling his claim. 
But, Mr S has said the service that was provided to him whilst his claim was being dealt with 
was poor.  And he told this service he would like fair compensation for the upset these issues  
caused him. 
Ageas accepts that it didnt deal with the repatriation of Mr S car promptly.  In its final 
response letter to Mr S it also accepted that it had taken  a long time to sort out the 
accommodation and a taxi Mr S and his family required. And that the communication during 
this time could have  been better. So, I havent  needed to decide  whether Ageas delayed 
matters. It accepts it did.
Instead, Ive needed to decide whether the compensation offered by Ageas is fair to reflect  
the trouble and upset Mr S experienced as a result of the accepted  errors. Ive thought  
carefully about this. And I agree with our investigator that an amount of £300 compensation 
more fairly  reflects  the level of upset and inconvenience Mr S experienced.
When dealing with a claim, Ageas has an obligation to deal with a claim promptly  and fairly. 
And, it should keep  the policyholder updated as to the progress of the claim.  Ive reviewed 
the contact notes Ageas has provided  to me, as well as the information  Mr S has sent. From 
looking at this its clear Mr S wasnt kept updated as to what was happening with his claim. 
Mr S also said there were problems  with the taxi when he arrived  at the airport  in the UK  it 
took two hours to find the taxi because  the driver had been provided with the wrong  contact 
number. Ageas hasnt  disputed  that this happened. 
I can see how being unaware of what was happening with his claim would have caused Mr S 
some distress about what was happening  to move things forward, and how he was going  to 
get home. Particularly  because he was also with family  which  included  his parents and his 
child.
I understand there were also avoidable  delays  in Mr S car being returned to the UK.  And I 
think this would have  caused additional  upset to Mr S. Quotations  for the repatriation  of the 
car werent  followed up when they should  have been,  and the representative collecting Mr S 
car to return  it to the UK arrived at a garage in the wrong country.  This was because a 
representative from Ageas had selected the wrong  country details on the relevant system.  
Ageas has accepted these were avoidable delays which led to Mr S car being returned 
Ref: DRN3704968310 days later than it should have been.  
Mr S had already  explained to Ageas he needed  his car to get to work.  Im aware from 
looking at Mr S policy that it doesnt  provide  a hire car when the car is being repatriated.  
Mr S said he was told he could have use of a hire car when he returned to the UK. I havent 
seen any evidence to show  this was the case. But I can appreciate how having to wait an 
extra ten days for his car to be returned  would have been both frustrating  and inconvenient  
for him. 
Ageas feels £150  is reasonable compensation for the upset these  problems caused.  But, Im 
satisfied an amount of £300 in total more fairly  reflects the level of trouble and upset the 
above caused to Mr S. So, I require Ageas to pay Mr S £300 compensation in total. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to;
Pay Mr S an additional £150 compensation, so the total amount paid to him is £300.
Aviva should  do this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr Ss accepted my final decision.  If it pays  
later than this it should add interest  to the compensation at a rate of 8% simple  per year from 
the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revue & Customs  if appropriate.   
Ref: DRN3704968