K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. The complaint is brought  on his behalf by a claims  management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ps credit  card account when he applied for the card in one of the banks branches.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr P disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
The credit card application form included a separate  section headed, Optional Features. 
There were equally clear  options to accept  or decline PPI and the Yes box has been ticked 
to show that Mr P wanted it. In all likelihood, the member of staff would have filled in the 
application form for Mr P. As part of this process, the member of staff would have  needed 
Mr Ps agreement  to the PPI insurance so that the box could be ticked.  Mr P would then 
have had time to read through the form, before  signing to agree that the details were correct.  
So, overall, I think Lloyds  made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to 
take it  although I can understand why he can no longer  remember  this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  Hes told us he wouldve received 
full sick pay, but this was at his employers  discretion and, from what  hes said,  I think  its 
unlikely he wouldve received full pay for a prolonged period. The PPI wouldve covered his 
credit card repayments for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to sickness or an 
accident, so couldve  been a useful  benefit.  It also covered him if hed become unemployed.
Having PPI meant Mr P wasnt  at risk of being forced to sell his car  perhaps when he might 
not get as much as hed hoped for.
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about  his parents being able to repay  his credit 
card for him. But relying on someone  else to help out in the event of money  problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr P would have  made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN30118942Mr P told us he had to take time of work  in 2004  due to an operation and more recently in 
2018. He may still be able to make a backdated claim on the policy. If he wishes to do this 
he should contact  the policy insurer.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3011894