K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way Evolution  Insurance Company Limited has handled his claim 
for repairs to the floors  in his home under the structural warranty  policy he holds. He has 
also complained  about the length  of time that the claim  has taken.
For ease of reading, any reference to Evolution also includes its agents.
background
Mr L first made a claim to Evolution in early  2016  after he became  aware  of issues with the 
floors in his home. On the ground floor he noticed that the floors squeaked when walked on 
and, on the first floor, there was significant movement, causing the furniture to move. 
Evolution inspected  his home and initially declined the claim saying that there wasnt  
evidence of major damage, as described by the policy.  As a result,  Mr L instructed  a 
surveying firm along with a roofing  and joist specialist who both agreed  that there was an 
issue with the joists which was affecting the first floor. The surveying firm also reported that 
the noise on the ground  floor was likely to be caused as a result of the chipboard joints not 
being glued and the chipboard moving  on the insulation. The report recommended  that the 
joints be glued, and that the chipboard  be cut to allow more space where it was tight against 
the wall. 
By August 2016, after further investigations,  Evolution accepted  there was a claim for major 
damage to the first floor as an internal wall had not been built correctly. But it maintained that 
there was no provision in the policy for the ground floor issue,  stating that it wasnt causing 
destruction, physical  damage or imminent instability  to the structure of the home which  was 
required under  the definition  of major  damage.  Mr L instructed a solicitor to handle  the claim 
on his behalf and both parties  continued  to correspond over the ground floor issue   Mr L 
provided a further  report from his surveyor noting that there  wasnt a vapour barrier  under 
the floor and that he believed this was part of the structure. There was also further 
communication about the correct way to complete the repairs necessary to rectify the first-
floor damage and Mr L provided  quotes from builders for this. 
In November 2017 Mr L told Evolution  he was no longer pursing the claim for the ground  
floor but wanted  the repairs to the first floor completed as soon as possible. After visiting the 
property again,  Evolution put forward a proposal to complete the repairs  using their own 
contractors to do the work and to allow Mr Ls surveyor to oversee the work. 
Mr L then employed the services of a loss assessor in December 2017.  The loss assessor 
disputed that the ground floor problem wasnt covered by the policy,  stating  that the 
insulation and chipboard were part of the load bearing structure and the deflections  noted by 
the surveyor when  people walked on the floor displayed a failure to support these normal 
loads. And they also advised that Mr L didnt  want to use Evolutions contractors and 
requested a cash settlement. Further quotes  for the work were  provided but these were for 
more than the amount quoted by Evolutions  builders.  Evolution  agreed to provide a cash  
settlement to Mr L but said it would only pay the amount  it would have had to pay to its own 
builders. When reviewing the complaint,  Evolution  said that it had taken longer than it 
thought it should have  done to agree to dealing with the claim for the first floor and so it 
agreed to waive  the £1,000 policy excess for the claim  due to the delays.
Ref: DRN33868072Our investigator looked at this complaint. He found that Mr L hadnt been able to show that 
the problems with the ground floor affected  or caused destruction,  caused  physical damage,  
or caused imminent instability to his home   as required by the policy.  So, he didnt agree 
that the claim for the ground floor had been incorrectly declined. And he said Evolutions 
offer to settle the claim  at the amount it would have cost its own builders was reasonable. 
Our investigator also found that there had been delays in the handling of the claim but that 
the offer of £1,000 to compensate  for this was fair.
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint had been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim, and the resulting complaint, has been ongoing for several years and there have  
been different  points  raised by the parties  at various times throughout that period. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this 
complaint Ive focused on what  I consider  to be the heart of the matter  rather  than 
commenting on every issue or point  made  in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to     
Mr L. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete,  I have reached  my decision  on the balance of 
probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to have 
happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive set out my findings under the following three headings: ground floor claim, first floor 
claim, and claim  delays.
Ground floor claim
Mr Ls claim was made under point one of the policy cover under his structural  warranty 
policy which  states it provides cover  for the cost of repairs  to the property if it has been 
affected by Major Damage.
The warranty defines Major Damage as:
Any defect  in the design, workmanship, materials or components of the Structure  
affecting or causing  destruction or physical  damage  and/or affecting or causing 
imminent instability of the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Approval has 
been received  by the Underwriter and which is first discovered during the Period  of 
Insurance.
The policy goes on to define Structure as:
The following  elements  comprising the Structure  of the Housing Unit:
Foundations;
Load-bearing  parts of floors, staircases and associated guard rails,  walls and 
roofs, together with load- bearing  retaining  walls necessary for stability;
Roof covering
Ref: DRN33868073Any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary  for the water-
tightness of the external envelope;
Floor decking and screeds, where  these fail to support normal  loads;
Multiple glazed panels to external  windows;
In order for a claim to be considered as major  damage, it first needs to fall under the 
definition of the structure. And as detailed above this requires the floor to be failing to 
support normal loads. The policy also requires the defect  to be causing  destruction  or 
physical damage  or affecting or causing imminent instability of the property.
Mr L has recently provided a report from a structural surveyor. This report  details the issues  
as follows:
The ground floor construction does not conform to Building Regulations and can 
allow ground gasses  to enter the property due to the deficiencies  in the damp proof  
membrane.
The ground floor should  have a layer of moisture barrier between  the insulation  and 
the underside  of the floating  floor to prevent interstitial condensation.
The chipboard  flooring  is not fitted  correctly and is not in accordance with good 
practice or alternatively the Building Regulations
In the report the surveyor states it is their opinion that the load bearing parts  of the flooring to 
the lower floor have  been affected as it cannot  support  the standard imposed load of a 
person walking on it. In relation to the damp proof  membrane, the surveyor states this is not 
a contributing factor in the structural support of the floor but is a feature in the structural 
composition of the floor not performing to the required standards.  The report  continues  by 
saying that the load bearing capacity of the floor is being compromised due to the inherent 
defect (the lack of vapour  barrier) that has likely  caused a degradation  of the floating floor or 
insulation beneath  resulting in the bouncing of the ground floor.  It says this has continued to 
worsen as time has passed and cannot be construed as anything other than a structural load 
bearing issue if it cannot even support the weight of the surveyor when walking on the floor.
This report has been shared with Evolution. Evolution has responded to say this still doesnt 
prove the floor is unable  to support normal loads. Evolution says the issue of the damp proof  
membrane is not affecting the structure  of the building as stated by Mr Ls surveyor  so it 
therefore isnt a defect covered by the policy. And it says that invasive tests  were carried  out 
in respect of the vapour  barrier and no evidence of condensation or degradation of the 
flooring was found. In relation to the chipboard not being fitted correctly (with no expansion  
gap between flooring and the walls), Evolution concedes  that this is the most  likely cause of 
any bouncing or flexing in the chipboard but says that there is no evidence  of this not 
supporting normal  loads.
Ive thought about this very carefully.  Both parties appear to agree  that there are defects in 
the way the floor has been fitted.  But the policy is quite limited  in the cover it provides in 
these circumstances.  In order  for me to agree with Mr L that the issue with the ground floor 
is covered by the policy I would need to be persuaded, on balance,  that the floor cannot  
support normal loads as a result of these defects.  Whilst  Mr Ls surveyor has referred  to the 
floor failing to support  a person, I havent  seen  anything  in this most  recent  report  or any 
other reports during  the lifetime of this dispute  to show that the floor isnt supporting the load 
 I would have  expected  there to have  been reports of the floor sinking or collapsing in areas 
Ref: DRN33868074if it wasnt able to support  the weight of normal household furniture  or people walking across 
it. 
Im therefore  not of the opinion that Mr L has done enough to show  that the floor is unable  to 
support normal loads. But even if he could show this to be the case, Mr L would  still need  to 
evidence that there  is destruction  or physical damage as a result  of these defects. There is 
mention in the surveyors report that the lack of vapour barrier is likely to have caused  
degradation to the floor. However, Evolution  has said this was tested and no evidence of this 
could be found.  So, Im not satisfied this point has been proved.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im persuaded that Evolution has fairly refused Mr Ls claim for the 
ground floor. I dont  believe  Mr L has shown that this issue  meets  the criteria in the policy for 
major damage. 
First floor claim
The policy states  it will cover the following:
The cost of complete  or partial  rebuilding  or rectifying work to the Housing Unit 
which has been affected by Major Damage
In the event of a claim under this section the Underwriter has the option either  of 
paying the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any damage  resulting from items 1 
to 4 above or itself arranging to have  such damage corrected.
Evolution has agreed to rectify the damage  to the first floor. The policy gives  it the option  to 
either pay the cost of such repair or to arrange  to have the damage corrected itself. 
Evolution opted to send  its contractors in to complete  the works. But Mr L has refused that 
offer as he wants to use contractors of his own choice. Hes said he has been let down by 
these contractors previously when obtaining  quotes  and, having  now done  some research, 
he is not satisfied  with their work. 
As a result of Mr Ls comments, Evolution agreed  to provide a cash  settlement instead. 
However, this offer was limited to the amount its contractor had stated it would charge. Mr L 
says that this is not a reasonable figure  and Evolution should  pay based on the quotes he 
has supplied.
Im aware of the comments made  by Mr L and his loss assessor regarding the estimate  for 
the works  provided  by Evolutions contractor  and why they think this isnt a suitable  figure.  
The offer made by Evolution relates to the amount  it would have to pay its contractors.
Insurers are often able to negotiate discounted  rates with different  tradesmen due to the
amount of work  it has available   this could  explain why there  is such  a difference from the
private quotes Mr L has provided.  But even if this is not the case, it is important to note that 
the policy enables  Evolution to choose  whether it repairs the damage itself or pays a cash  
settlement. It has opted to complete the repair and our usual approach  at this service would 
be that it should be given the chance to do so. 
I appreciate Mr L doesnt want  these  contractors to do the work, but Im not persuaded that 
his reasons are enough to make me think Evolution should lose the option to repair the 
damage itself or must pay more as a result. Evolution has agreed to cash settle the claim at 
the cost it believes  it would have incurred for the repairs, based  on a quote  provided. Im 
Ref: DRN33868075satisfied that this is a fair offer. Should  Mr L change  his mind and wish for Evolution to 
arrange for the works to be completed, I would ask it to consider this request favourably. If 
its contractors do complete the works  and things  should go wrong, we would expect 
Evolution to put matters  right.
Claims delays
The claim for damage to Mr Ls property  was first made in 2016  and so I can appreciate his 
frustration that this matter  hasnt been  resolved. From reviewing the timeline of events, its 
clear there have been delays on the part of Evolution, most notably several months in 2016 
when it incorrectly declined the claim for the first-floor damage and then again in 2017  when  
it took over five months to respond  to Mr Ls solicitor. In November 2017 Mr L did agree  to 
Evolution completing the works to the first floor and stated that he was no longer  pursuing 
the claim for the ground floor - so at that point I would have expected this matter to have 
been finalised relatively quickly with works starting soon after.  
However, when Mr L appointed  a loss assessor to handle his claim in December 2017, the 
issue over the ground floor was once again  raised  and this, along with the matter of the 
contractors to be used  on the first floor and the dispute over the cash  settlement,  meant  that 
the works  on the agreed part of the claim didnt commence. Whilst I can see there were 
times when  Evolutions  agents took a short while  to respond to Mr Ls loss assessor, Im not 
of the opinion that there have been unreasonable delays  by Evolution following this change 
in representation. 
Evolution has agreed to waive the policy excess on the claim as compensation for the delays 
it has caused which is equal to a sum of £1,000. Im sure Mr L is understandably upset that 
the claim has not progressed at a faster rate, but Im satisfied that this is fair compensation 
based on the delays that I can see Evolution  is responsible for. I dont agree it should pay 
anything further.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L but for the reasons Ive stated above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3386807