K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has taken the amount of a cheque from his 
account after the cheque had been cleared.
background
Mr B deposited a cheque  for £149.60  into his Nationwide  bank account in September  2018. 
Nationwide debited the cheque from Mr Bs account without notice about six weeks later - so 
he complained  to Nationwide. It said that it had been  asked to return the money  by the bank  
that issued the cheque  because the cheque had already been  cleared through  another 
financial institution. It accepted that there  had been  a delay before that had happened  and 
that it hadnt contacted Mr B as it shouldve  done   so it offered to pay him £75 
compensation. But it said that it hadnt accused  Mr B of fraud and that this issue  hadnt 
impacted his credit file. Mr B didnt accept  its offer and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He felt that the 
amount of £75 adequately recognised the trouble and upset caused to Mr B and was a fair 
and reasonable resolution to his complaint.
 
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that he should receive the full amount of the cheque as compensation  and not just the £75 
offered by Nationwide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepts that it debited the amount  of the cheque  from Mr Bs account after the 
period in which it was entitled to do so had ended   and that it didnt make a request to Mr B 
before doing so. It says that this was an error on its part for which it said sorry   and it 
offered to pay £75 compensation to Mr B. It also said that it hadnt accused Mr B of fraud 
and that this issue hadnt impacted his credit file. But the cheque  had already  been cleared 
through another financial institution so shouldnt have been credited to Mr Bs account.  And I 
consider that it was appropriate for it to debit the amount of the cheque  from Mr Bs account.
I consider that Nationwides response  to Mr Bs complaint was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And Im not persuaded that the distress and inconvenience that hes been  
caused by these events justifies a higher amount of compensation than the £75 that it has 
already offered him  and I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to increase  the amount of compensation to £149.60. Nor do I consider that it would 
be fair or reasonable  for me to require Nationwide to take any other  action in response  to 
Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £75 
compensation to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ref: DRN34894302Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3489430