K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mr P signed. On this I can see there was a box for the PPI, which has a pre-printed  cross 
in it to take out the PPI. The form also has other pre-printed information on it, such  as 
Mr Ps employment and financial details. Ive thought  carefully about what Mr P has said 
about him not being given  a choice, but I just dont think  theres enough evidence to say 
this is what most likely happened.  Instead  I think that this policy  was sold to Mr P during a 
meeting and that the cross in the box for PPI reflected  a discussion Mr P and the adviser  
had before  the form was finalised  and that the form was printed to reflect  what they had 
discussed. So overall I think its most likely  that Bank of Scotland  made  it clear  that Mr P 
didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, including that a different complaint he made 
about a separate PPI policy was upheld.  But I must decide this complaint here on its own 
merits. And for this reason, and the reasons explained above, these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr P paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr P back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr P now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN39441112my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3944111