K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc passed her Professional  Career 
Development Loan  (PCDL) account to a debt recovery service  unfairly  when she wasnt 
behind on her loan payments.
background
Miss L took out a PCDL  with The Co-op in 2013.  In 2016 the Co-op wrote to tell her that 
because it had failed  to comply with the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA),  it was refunding  
interest and charges applied to the loan after 31 October 2014. This meant a refund of 
£975.92 so the loan balance was reduced to £4,449.36. There was no further  interest 
applied to the account.
Because the balance of the account changed,  the Co-op told Miss L the loan would  be paid 
off sooner.  But she said shed prefer to reduce the monthly payments and keep the same 
term. Eventually it was agreed shed  pay £114.25 instead of the original monthly payments 
and a new agreement  was issued. But in 2018,  due to administrative errors in the Co-op, the 
account was marked as in default and the loan was passed to a debt collection agency.
Miss L was very upset  about this and contacted  the Co-op on several  occasions  to try and 
sort things  out. When she made a complaint, the Co-op upheld  her complaint because  it 
recognised itd made mistakes and offered her £200  as compensation though it said it 
couldnt take the loan back from the debt collection agency as Miss L wanted. As she wasnt 
happy with this, Miss L came to this service. Our investigator thought the Co-op had done 
what it could to put things right so he didnt think it needed to do anything more. But Miss L 
disagreed so it came to me for review.
After considering all the circumstances, I felt the compensation should be increased so I 
issued a provisional decision to that effect.  I havent  received any further comments since 
then so my findings remain unchanged as set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The Co-ops accepted it made  mistakes  
and Miss Ls account shouldnt  have  been sent to a debt-collection  agency  because it wasnt  
in default. So, I need to consider whether or not the Co-ops done  enough  to put things right. 
This means  taking into account the impact  the Co-ops mistakes have had on Miss L.
I understand that interest is frozen on the account  so Miss L wont  suffer  financially because  
the loans  now with the debt collection agency.  And this kind of loan isnt recorded on credit  
files so Miss Ls credit score wont be affected by the Co-ops mistakes.  But looking at the 
level of upset this has caused Miss L, I find the compensation needs  to be higher  than the 
Co-ops offer. 
This is because she was told her loan was in default when it wasnt  and found her debt being 
passed to a debt collection agency when it shouldnt have been.  This mustve been very 
worrying for Miss L and shes  told us how stressful  she found it trying to sort things out. She 
had several long calls with the Co-op  having to explain her financial  situation at length in 
office hours and getting different answers  from different  people.  Shes now left in the 
situation where her debt is being  managed by a debt collection agency rather than the Co-op 
Ref: DRN32357062who she took it out with. Although this doesnt have a financial impact, based on what shes 
told us, it clearly makes her uncomfortable  and this situation will carry on until the debts paid 
off because the Co-op says it cant take the debt back. Because  the situation  cant  be 
corrected and given  the time its taken to deal with the problem and the level of upset Miss 
Ls suffered, I think compensation of £500  is appropriate.
Miss Ls complained  that she thinks passing her details to the debt collection agency was a 
breach of data protection law but I wont deal with this part of her complaint here as I 
understand shes going to take this up with the Information Commissioners  Office which is 
the regulator for data protection and is better placed  to address this.
Shes also complained  that the outstanding balance is incorrect because  she says the Co-op 
shouldve paid back more  interest in 2016.  Having looked at the statements, I can see the 
Co-op paid £975.92 which was the amount of interest shed paid on the loan after the end of 
October 2014. There was interest applied to the loan before that date but this wasnt part of 
the refund  she was due. So based  on what Ive seen, I think  the Co-ops calculated the 
balance correctly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld in part. 
The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Miss G £500  as compensation for the trouble and 
upset its caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3235706