K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes being helped  with 
his complaint by his representative.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr C under  a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that he signed in March 2017. He says that there  have been issues with the cars 
connective drive system and media  player since  the car was supplied to him. He contacted 
the dealer in April 2018 and was told that it was aware of the issue which  was affecting the 
manufacturers cars and that an update would be issued. Mr C says that he regularly 
contacted the dealer about  the update without success so complained  to BMW  Financial 
Services in July 2018.
It said, in September  2018, that an online update had been  made  by the manufacturer to all 
of its affected cars in the UK which shouldve corrected the issue.  And it offered Mr C £250 
compensation in recognition of the inconvenience  caused. Mr C didnt accept its offer and 
complained to this service. He says that he wants to reject the car.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr C had 
acquired a brand new car and that hed said that one of the reasons he chose this particular 
car was because of its software features but some  of those  features were  unavailable to him 
until the software was updated. He said that it was a known fault which had now been 
corrected. So he didnt  consider that it would be fair or reasonable for Mr C to reject the car. 
But he didnt  consider that BMW Financial Services  offer of £250 compensation went  far 
enough. So he recommended  that it should  refund 15% of the six monthly payments that 
were made by Mr C during the period from April 2018 (when the issue  was first raised) until 
September 2018 (when the fault was resolved)  and that it should pay him £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr Cs representative  on his behalf  says that Mr C also paid for a music subscription 
service which  he wasnt able to use and that he should be compensated for that. BMW 
Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  
that Mr C is getting real time traffic  information  for free as part of the connected drive 
services package for three years from the date of production  and if he decides  to renew 
that feature  after it expires he would have to pay £45 for the renewal for a year. And it says 
that Mr C had the car from new in March 2017  but the first confirmation of a fault was in April 
2018  and the fault was repaired  free of charge. So it says that the compensation of £250 
that its offered  in recognition of Mr C not having any use of that feature is a more  than fair 
outcome as the issue wasnt causing  him issues with driving  the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that it was 
of satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend  on a number of factors, including  
the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied 
to Mr C was a new car and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would 
Ref: DRN33705222be free from even minor  defects. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that 
the components  within the car must be durable  and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was an issue  with the connective drive 
system on the car that was supplied to Mr C. He says that the issue  was present when the 
car was supplied to him. But BMW Financial Services says that he didnt confirm a fault with 
the car until April 2018  about a year after the car had been supplied to him. But it also says 
that this was an issue that was affecting other cars from this manufacturer  and that the 
manufacturer was working on a software update  to deal with the issue.
An online software  update was made by the manufacturer in September  2018  and I 
understand that it dealt with the issue about  which Mr C had complained.  BMW Financial 
Services offered him £250 compensation for the inconvenience that hed been caused. But 
this was a premium new car on which Mr C had an issue  for about 18 months.  So I consider 
it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to 
him. But the issue has been dealt  with so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Mr C to reject  the car. 
The issue  with the car will have affected  Mr Cs use and enjoyment  of it. He didnt contact 
the dealer about the issue until April 2018  and it wasnt resolved until September  2018. So I 
agree with the adjudicators recommendation that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW 
Financial Services to refund to Mr C 15% of the six monthly payments that he made  between  
April and September 2018 to compensate him for the loss of use and enjoyment that hes 
had from the car. 
Mr C has been caused distress and inconvenience by these  events. And I consider that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for BMW  Financial Services to pay him £100  to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. Mr Cs representative says that Mr C 
has paid for a music subscription service  that he wasnt able to use because  of the issues 
with the car  and that he should be compensated for that. But that isnt something that was 
financed under the hire purchase agreement  and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require BMW  Financial Services  to pay Mr C 
any compensation for that subscription.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. And I order BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
1.Refund to Mr C 15% of the six monthly payments that he made for the car between 
April and September 2018.
2.Pay £100 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3370522