K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1993; they took out a further policy in 
1998 when they changed their mortgage.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy  and it 
provided cover for Mr L only. Mrs L wasnt  covered by the policy.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS shouldve made it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr and Mrs Ls 
agreement to buy it. Mr and Mrs L say it wasnt made clear  to them that the PPI was 
optional. They say they were told it was part of the mortgage.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ls applications for the mortgage and the PPI policies. There 
was a section  on the mortgage application form where they could choose  to buy the PPI. 
They then needed  to complete a separate application form. And I havent seen anything  form 
the time of sale that says the PPI was part of the mortgage. So I think its likely YBS made 
Mr and Mrs L aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it. 
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. But it shouldve provided  clear information  to Mr and Mrs L to allow  them to decide if 
they wanted to buy the policy. Mr and Mrs L say this didnt happen. 
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  The cost was shown in 1998 but 
Ive not seen how it was shown in 1993.  And its possible the other information YBS gave 
Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was a significant, long-term,  financial  commitment. If Mr L couldnt 
work for a long period  of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the mortgage was 
secured on their home,  Mr and Mrs L couldve potentially  lost their property if they fell into 
financial difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  repayment if Mr L couldnt work due to 
illness, or he lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition to any employer, or 
unemployment benefits, Mr L might have received  if this happened.  It couldve provided a 
payment for up to 12 months per claim.  
Ref: DRN36357032Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Mrs L couldnt afford to make the monthly payments for 
the PPI at the time of sale. And they dont appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
So based  on what I know about their circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve been 
useful to them. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  them buying it. And I 
dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out due to anything  that YBS mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3635703