K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the customer service they received from                                    
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) when their home insurance policy was cancelled 
by mistake.
Mrs T brings  this complaint on behalf  of her and her husband, Mr T.
background 
In August  2017,  Mr and Mrs T took out a home insurance policy. It was underwritten  by RSA.  
On 7 February 2018, Mrs T contacted RSA to say shed noticed cracking to her property and 
was concerned about subsidence. She explained  that shed already had a surveyor  visit her 
property to assess the damage. 
When asked when  shed  first noticed  the cracking,  Mrs T said June 2017. RSA said that as 
this was before the policy started, it wasnt the responsible insurer. It advised  Mrs T to 
contact her previous  insurer (insurer  A)  which she did.
RSA cancelled the policy and refunded the remaining  premiums.  But it didnt let Mrs T know 
it had done so. 
Mrs T discovered her policy had been  cancelled when she checked  her bank account and 
saw shed received  an unexpected credit from RSA.  She contacted RSA on                                    
23 February 2018 to complain. She was unhappy that her policy  had been  cancelled without 
her knowledge  and that this had meant her property had been uninsured for a period of time.
In early March 2018, Mrs T arranged  buildings and contents cover with another  insurance 
provider - insurer B. 
RSA contacted Mrs T on 12 March 2018. It apologised for telling Mrs T it couldnt  consider 
her claim and for cancelling her policy. RSA said that as the policy had been cancelled 
because of a misunderstanding, it could reinstate it from the date it was cancelled.  It also 
offered £200 compensation  to acknowledge the difficulties Mrs T had experienced as a 
result of its actions. But Mrs T didnt agree to have the policy reinstated.
Insurer B subsequently  cancelled  the building element of Mrs Ts policy. It said it wouldnt 
have offered cover had it known about  the possible subsidence. But it agreed  to provide 
cover in the interim while  Mrs T arranged buildings cover with another  provider.  
At the end of March 2018, Mrs T had sorted  buildings  cover  with a specialist insurance 
provider  insurer C. 
Mrs T remained unhappy with how RSA had handled things, and so brought her complaint to 
this service.
In June 2018, Mrs T told us that RSA had agreed to handle the claim after insurer  A got in 
touch with it. She also said insurer A had offered £150 compensation to recognise that it had 
caused some delays. At this point, Mrs T also raised  concerns about how long it had taken 
RSA to get in touch  with her about  the claim. 
Ref: DRN31635672Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt RSA needed to pay an additional  £400  
compensation. She said the claim wasnt initially considered when  it shouldve  been. And 
although it was now being looked at, this had caused unnecessary delays. She felt RSA 
hadnt acted in accordance with the terms of its policy as it hadnt  told Mrs T that the policy 
had been cancelled. She said Mrs T had to go to the trouble of finding alternative insurance, 
and at a higher cost. And as Mrs T hadnt been told the policy had been cancelled, the 
property had been uninsured for a period  of two weeks.  
She didnt  think RSA needed  to pay the full costs of the independent  surveyors  report  as 
RSA hadnt asked Mrs T to do this. But she thought  RSA should  contribute towards the cost 
of it as it was being used  by its loss adjuster. She said this had been accounted for in the 
£400 compensation.
Mr and Mrs T said theyd  accept £400  in addition to the £200  compensation previously  
offered by RSA, but on the condition  that RSA committed to undertaking any works required 
in order to restore their home.  They said the investigators opinion didnt take into account  
the issues theyd  experienced since RSA had agreed to investigate  the claim.
 
In summary,  RSA said:
itd offered to reinstate the policy from the date it was cancelled  but Mr and Mrs T 
didnt want to do this. If Mr and Mrs T had needed to make a claim during the time 
they were without insurance, it wouldve honoured this.
although it had repudiated  the claim, Mrs T had contacted insurer  A whod been 
investigating the claim before referring  it back to RSA.  So it didnt feel thered  been 
further delays.
it took Mr and Mrs T seven months  from noticing  the damage to reporting it to RSA.
had the claim been considered in February  2018, its likely it would still be going  on 
due to the nature of it. 
Mr and Mrs T hadnt incurred financial loss by purchasing the specialist insurance as 
the premium was cheaper than that offered by RSA. 
the independent surveyor was appointed prior to RSAs involvement  and so it 
couldnt be responsible for the costs  Mr and Mrs T incurred  in having a report.
the ombudsman  service can only look at issues up until the date of its final response  
and that Mrs Ts concerns about  the delays with the claim didnt form part of her 
initial complaint.
Another investigator considered the parties  comments and decided that additional 
compensation of £250 would be fair. She said this should include the cost of the premiums  
Mrs T paid to insurer C during the time she wouldve  been covered by RSA,  had it not 
cancelled her policy.
RSA accepted our investigators opinion. But Mrs T didnt. She said: 
RSA has had the benefit of the independent  report.
Ref: DRN31635673she now has to pay higher insurance  premiums.
shes spent hours  on the phone and writing emails trying  to deal with the matter.
shes not had a formal apology from RSA or anything in writing to say itll reinstate 
the policy.
weve overlooked  that RSA didnt take action until its competitor, insurer A, contacted  
it.
Because Mr and Mrs T disagreed, the complaint  was been passed  to me to make a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I need to explain  at the outset that Im only considering the issues  raised  by Mrs T 
when she initially complained to RSA and which were addressed in its final response.  
RSA is looking into Mrs Ts concerns about  the costs shes incurred in respect  of the 
independent report  and inspection pits as a separate complaint. So I wont be 
commenting on these  points as part of my decision. 
In deciding whether  RSAs offer of £200  compensation  is fair, Im only concerned  
with its actions and what its responsible  for.
The investigators who looked at Mrs Ts complaint said additional compensation was 
fair in all the circumstances. Both investigators  agreed Mrs T had experienced 
avoidable delays  as a result of RSAs actions, and so factored this in when deciding  
how much  compensation  should be awarded. But I disagree and will explain why.
When Mrs T initially complained to RSA, her complaint focussed on her policy being 
cancelled without her knowledge and having  been given wrong  information  when she 
tried to log a claim. And this is what RSA addressed  in its final response.  These  are 
the matters relevant to the complaint brought to us and so the delays  Mrs T says 
shes experienced as a result of RSAs actions  are more properly dealt with as a 
separate complaint. And so I wont be considering this when  deciding  whether the 
compensation offered by RSA is fair.
Mrs T said she became aware  her policy had been  cancelled on 23 February  2018.  I 
accept from Mrs T that finding  this out, in the way she did, wouldve no doubt  caused 
her some worry.  And it did result  in Mrs T having  to spend time contacting RSA and 
liaising with other insurers to ensure she had cover, which I agree wouldve been  an 
inconvenience for her. 
Mrs T said she arranged alternative cover shortly after finding  out her policy  had 
been cancelled  by RSA. So there was a relatively short period of time when Mrs T 
didnt have insurance in place. Understandably  Mrs T wouldve been concerned upon 
learning her property hadnt  been insured, but in thinking about  the impact  on her, Im 
mindful that  Mrs T didnt  actually need to make  a claim during the few weeks  her 
property was uninsured.  So she didnt lose out as a result.  So the impact, in my 
view, is limited to the short period of worry she experienced. I also have to keep in 
Ref: DRN31635674mind that Mrs T found out some time after RSA had made its mistake, so I think  this 
lessened the impact on her.
I also need to take into account  how long RSA took to resolve  matters.  I can see 
RSA offered to reinstate  Mrs Ts policy on 12 March  2018  less than three weeks 
after Mrs T complained to it. While I acknowledge that RSA didnt provide good 
customer service  when  Mrs T tried to log a claim,  I do think it tried to resolve  things in 
a reasonable timeframe  when it became aware  of her complaint.
Mrs T has said shed  lost faith in RSA and so had to arrange insurance with another  
provider. While I do understand why she felt let down, I dont think  RSAs  actions 
were of such that Mrs T had no other option  than to obtain insurance elsewhere.  I 
say this because  upon learning  of its mistake, RSA offered to reinstate the policy  
which I consider to be a satisfactory resolution. And it did this in a reasonable 
timeframe. So I dont agree that the only reasonable course of action was for Mrs T 
to find insurance with another provider. 
So it follows  that I dont  think RSA needs to compensate Mrs T for the costs she 
incurred in taking  out another policy with insurer B. I say this because RSA had 
offered a reasonable solution  before  Mrs Ts new policy was due to start  and it was 
Mrs Ts decision not to accept this solution.
Mrs T has said shes not received a written apology from RSA or had it in writing that 
it will reinstate  the policy. But Im satisfied it has done both of these things. Ive 
looked at the final response sent by its agent  and it says:
Were happy to reinstate  your home insurance policy from the date it was 
cancelled.
It goes on to say:
To say sorry, Ive issued a cheque payment of £200.
financial loss
Our investigator suggested RSA cover the premiums Mrs T paid to insurer  C from 
April to August 2018. She said this on the basis that had RSA not cancelled Mrs Ts 
policy it wouldve run until 10 August 2018  and so Mrs T wouldnt have needed to buy 
cover with an alternative insurance  provider. Ive thought about this but I dont think  
its fair to ask RSA to do this. 
I say this because  RSA had offered to reinstate Mrs Ts policy on 12 March 2018  - a 
few weeks before she arranged cover  with insurer C. So there  was a reasonable 
solution in place. I think Mrs Ts decision to arrange cover with insurer C was her own 
free choice rather than being the only reasonable option. 
So, having  carefully considered everything, Im currently minded to say that the £200 
compensation offered by RSA fairly reflects the inconvenience and worry 
Mr and Mrs T experienced. And I wont be recommending RSA pay any more than 
this.
Ref: DRN31635675my provisional decision
Im aware that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has made  an offer to pay £200.                        
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My provisional decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay 
Mr and Mrs T £200.
RSA didnt provide  a response to my provisional  decision. 
Mrs T raised  a number of points in response  to my provisional decision. Some  of these dont 
fall within  the remit of this complaint (for example, those relating  to how RSA has handled 
her insurance claim and the advice shes received from other  insurers).  Ive also already 
addressed some of her points in my provisional decision. So Ive drawn out any new points 
and those I consider  to be relevant  to this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint shouldnt be upheld and Ill explain why. 
I want to reassure Mrs T that I dont doubt shes provided her honest recollection  of events 
when bringing  this complaint to us - shes provided detailed commentary as to how events 
unfolded. But my role is to look at all the evidence provided by both parties to decide 
whether RSA has done enough to put things right in respect of this complaint. And having 
done so, I think  it has. 
That doesnt  mean I think the level of service it initially  provided Mrs T was good enough  I 
dont, and I said so in my provisional decision.  But I am satisfied the action it has taken to 
rectify the situation  is sufficient, so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
Mrs T is concerned that Ive not recognised her need to insure her house  with another 
insurance provider  upon learning  RSA had cancelled her home  insurance.  But I do accept 
she had a need to do so and I think it was reasonable for her to have taken this step. But I 
dont think RSA needs to cover  this cost and Ill explain why. 
Mrs T arranged insurance with insurer B in early March 2018.  The buildings  element  of the 
policy was subsequently cancelled by insurer B and the premiums  returned to Mrs T  which  
means she didnt incur a financial loss. And so it wouldnt  be fair to ask RSA to recompense  
Mrs T for a loss she didnt  actually  experience.
Ive looked at insurer Bs policy  schedule for the contents element of Mrs Ts cover,  and it 
shows it was due to start at the end of March  which is after RSA had offered to reinstate its 
policy. So at the time of RSA offering to reinstate the policy,  Mrs T had two options. She 
could have chosen to stay with insurer B or she couldve cancelled that policy  and had her 
RSA policy  reinstated.
Consumers have a responsibility to take steps to mitigate their losses,  and I think a 
reasonable step wouldve  been for Mrs T to speak to RSA about cancelling  her insurance 
with insurer B and the implications of doing so (if there were any). At the time of RSA 
offering to reinstate its policy, Mrs T was likely to still be in the 14 day cancellation period of 
Ref: DRN31635676insurer Bs policy and so was unlikely to incur a cancellation charge. But even if this was a 
possibility, I think a reasonable step wouldve been for her to discuss  this with RSA.
As I said in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied a reasonable  solution  had been put forward  
by RSA, and it was ultimately  Mrs Ts choice to refuse its offer to reinstate the policy.  
Because of that, I dont think it needs to recompense her for the cost of the contents element 
of her policy with insurer  B.
Mrs T feels strongly  that even  though she didnt need to make a claim during the time her 
home was uninsured, there was still a risk she might have needed  to. I said in my provisional  
decision that I accept  she wouldve  experienced some  degree of worry upon realising her 
home had been  uninsured. But the need to make  a claim didnt actually arise. And even if it 
had, there  isnt anything  to suggest Mrs T wouldnt have been  able to do so, or that she 
wouldve experienced a loss. So it wouldnt be fair to ask RSA to increase its compensation 
based on a hypothetical satiation. 
Mrs T has said shes been told by another insurer that there are two refusal markers on her 
and her husbands insurance record  - one being  because of the situation  with RSA. RSA has 
told us that it hasnt added a marker.  Mrs T hasnt provided evidence to the contrary.  If she 
remains unhappy about this, Mrs T would need  to raise this as a new complaint with RSA.
So having  carefully thought about  everything, my decision remains that RSAs offer of 
compensation is fair in the circumstances  and so I wont be asking it to do anything  else. I 
know my decision is going to disappoint Mrs T but I hope she understands my reasons  for 
doing so.
my final decision
Im aware that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has made  an offer to pay £200.                        
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay Mr and Mrs T £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3163567