K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how NewDay Ltd handled  the matter of someone fraudulently 
accessing his Aquacard credit card account. And hes unhappy with the impact the whole 
matter has had on his credit file. 
Aquacard is a trading  name of NewDay, but for the purposes of this decision I will only refer 
to NewDay. 
background
To better understand  this complaint, and for context  only,  its helpful to understand what  
happened earlier in relation to Mr Bs account.  
Mr B first complained to NewDay about  a problem he had making a payment of £343.70  
towards his credit card on 2 August 2018. He had attempted  to make two payments on that 
day, but only one was successful. 
It took NewDay some time to find out what had happened to the missing  payment. The 
payment was eventually  located on 28 August 2018  and backdated to Mr Bs account.  In 
light of the payment being delayed NewDay adjusted interest and a fee that had been 
applied and paid Mr B some compensation for the trouble caused.  However,  as Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with this, he brought  the complaint to our service and it was dealt with as a separate 
complaint to this one. 
This complaint is about what happened  next.
 
Before the missing payment mentioned above had been located and added  to Mr Bs 
account, Mr B received  emails and texts  telling him he had changed his address - Ive seen 
an email dated 23 August  2018 to Mr B which let him know his address had been changed. 
Mr B got in contact with NewDay  about this on 31 August  2018  after speaking  with our 
service to find out what he should do because  he said he had not changed his address.   
NewDays internal  records show that on 23 August 2018 the account  passcode and 
password were re-set  as too many  incorrect  attempts  had been made to access  the account 
 so the account was blocked  on 23 August 2018.  
When Mr B spoke  with NewDay on 31 August 2018  he says the account was frozen  and 
while the fraud team and our service looked  into his various concerns, he requested  all 
charges be frozen.  Mr B says he was promised a call back  about  this, but the call didnt  
happen. 
On 5 September 2018 a letter from NewDay to Mr B confirmed theyd cancelled his direct 
debit mandate  as he had requested. And they let him know what  other  ways  he could make  
payment to his account. They also reminded Mr B that he still needed to make  payments to 
the account. Mr B has said he cancelled the direct debit while  things were being  looked into. 
On 8 October 2018 a letter from NewDay was sent to Mr B highlighting that hed missed a 
payment and he needed to pay £156.41. This letter was incorrectly  addressed.  
On 10 October 2018 Mr B received a letter from the fraud team (correctly addressed). This 
confirmed they did not think Mr B had done  anything wrong.  And it said they werent holding  
Ref: DRN36433082Mr B responsible for any disputed sales made on the account. (Mr B has been  clear 
throughout that he has not disputed any sales (transactions) on the account). NewDay also 
registered a protective CIFAS marker on Mr Bs credit file and provided Mr B with some  
information around what this meant. NewDay says a new card was issued  to Mr B as well 
(so card ending 1362, replaced card ending 5002). 
On 15 October 2018 NewDay  wrote  to Mr B at his correct address to confirm  his account 
had been suspended and he needed  to make  an immediate  arrears payment for £156.41, as 
well as his contractual  minimum  payment of £162.75. The new balance on the account  was 
£3,920.17. 
A notice  of the default sums (the late payment fee of £12) was issued to Mr B on the same  
day to the same address. 
Mr B received a further missed payment letter from NewDay  (to the correct  address) on 22 
October 2018. 
On 24 October 2018 NewDay  sent Mr B an email saying hed missed a payment for account  
ending 1362  and would therefore  be charged  £12 for a late payment. The email explained a 
missed payment could  be reported to the credit reference agencies and impact Mr Bs credit  
rating. The email explained  what Mr B needed  to do to bring  the account back  up to date. 
And let him know what support was available if he needed it. 
On 1 November  2018 NewDay wrote again to Mr B at the correct  address to say hed 
missed his payment   and explained he needed to pay £156.41 as soon as possible.  
NewDay wrote to Mr B on 15 November 2018 (to the correct  address) with further 
correspondence confirming firstly, the account had been suspended and that Mr B was over 
his credit limit and had missed last months  contractual payment. The minimum payment now 
due was £187.41 and there were now arrears of £319.16. And secondly, they sent him a 
notice of sums in arrears.  The FCA (the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority) 
information sheet  sent with the letter said, Doing nothing could make  things  worse   The 
lender could take legal action against you, and you could end up paying more  interest and 
charges.
An email  was sent to Mr B on 23 November 2018  saying that due to a missed payment he 
would be charged  £12. Again, explaining missed  payments may be reported to the credit 
reference agencies,  that this could  impact Mr Bs credit rating and he needed to bring the 
account up to date. 
On 30 November 2018 NewDay issued Mr B with a default notice under section 87(1)  of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  The notice was addressed correctly and set out that Mr B 
needed to now pay £319.16 by 21 December  2018. And if he didnt do this, then the credit 
agreement would be ended, his account closed and the full balance would be asked for 
straight away. The letter also explained  NewDay could sell the account to a third party. 
On 16 December 2018 Mr B received a further letter confirming  again  the account  was 
suspended and he needed  to make payment. A notice of default sums was again  issued. 
On 17 December 2018 NewDays internal records show  Mr B spoke  with them  and 
confirmed he had received the letter that he would be defaulted. At this time Mr B also made 
a Subject Access Request  (SAR). 
Ref: DRN36433083It wasnt until 20 December 2018  when Mr B again  spoke  with NewDay  that he made  a 
payment of £156.41  as the NewDay staff member had said this would be to clear the oldest 
part of the arrears. The staff member  notes that Mr B was told, as he had missed  the 
payment cut off time (for NewDay to process  the payment) it wasnt  guaranteed that this 
would prevent the account being taken to the next step of NewDays collections process.  
 
This is the last payment  Mr B made  to the account. 
NewDay wrote to Mr B on 21 December 2018 (to the correct  address) to confirm the account 
had been terminated. The letter said Mr Bs account had been moved to the debt recovery  
unit and a full balance of £4,217.89 was now due. It also invited Mr B to speak with NewDay  
to see whether interest and fees on the account could be reduced,  and offered him the 
details of other services  available  that could help him. The current balance  at that time was 
£4,217.89  the credit limit having  been £4,050.
On 18 January 2019 NewDays contact  notes show Mr B expressed his concern  that 
questions he was raising about  his account werent  being answered (something he had 
mentioned previously in conversations  with NewDay). And said he wasnt happy  with how 
anything was being handled  including not getting  call backs  when promised. Mr B spoke 
with NewDay again on 19 and 20 January 2019 about his concerns.
 
NewDay has confirmed that on 31 May 2019 Mr Bs account was defaulted  and sold to a 
third party. 
Mr Bs further concerns  about fees and interest were addressed  in NewDays letter to him 
dated 15 July 2019. For the most  part, NewDay did not feel they had done anything wrong 
by charging interest  or fees to Mr Bs account  while the fraud team  investigated things  they 
explained this was in line with their terms and conditions. But they said there had been a 
lack of information and offered Mr B £30 to recognise this. The letter also explained the SAR 
request was raised on 20 December 2018  a few days  after Mr B had first requested  it, and 
that the information had been sent to Mr B on 7 January 2019. The letter  also acknowledged 
Mr Bs point  that hed never received a new credit card. But NewDay said this had been sent 
correctly.  
Mr Bs complaint was reviewed by our investigator. In summary, they thought  it fair that 
NewDay had applied  fees and interest to Mr Bs account. And there was no evidence 
available which suggested  Mr B had been  promised that interest and/or fees would not be 
applied while the account was being  reviewed. The investigator also didnt agree that Mr B 
had cleared his balance  once the £343.70 had been  paid to the account.  Ongoing spending 
meant there  was still an outstanding balance. They also noted Mr B had not disputed any 
transactions on the account. And overall,  the investigator said NewDay  had acted fairly with 
regards to registering the default.  The investigator did however feel that NewDay  should  
increase their offer from £30 to £75 to reflect the upset  the matter  had caused  which 
NewDay agreed to. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36433084Im aware that a lot has happened since Mr Bs initial complaint (dealt  with under the 
separate reference). And while not every single  communication has been noted in detail  
above, I have  reviewed all the submissions available. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustrations with how NewDay  has handled things for him as hes 
sought answers about what  happened with his account. 
In the submissions I can see Mr B expressed concern about NewDays  role in what  
happened with his account.  He said he found it odd that he was being  told NewDay had 
received the payment for £343.70, but it wasnt on his account and they were promising him 
that it would  be. And that it then took NewDay a long while to resolve this. Mr B also 
expressed concerns  that he thought NewDay were unable to give him any real detail about  
how someone had been able to access his account.  And he said that NewDay had been 
giving our service wrong information.  
Taking Mr Bs submissions all together I can see how he has become upset  and concerned 
about all of this. Understandably, Mr B has wanted some reassurance  that his personal and 
financial information is safe. Im aware  that Mr B made a SAR and he has been  made  aware 
of how to contact the Information Commissioners Office. 
However, while I am very mindful  of everything Mr B has said, having reviewed everything I 
agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator as I will explain. 
As the other  decision  has dealt with the payment for £343.70, I turn now to how the address 
was changed  on Mr Bs account.  
change of address  on the account  
Firstly, its important to note NewDay  accepted Mr B hadnt changed his account details 
himself and that this had been done  by an imposter. NewDay  therefore arranged a protective 
CIFAS marker  to be placed against Mr Bs credit file and issued a new credit card. I think this 
was the right thing  to do. 
NewDay has been able to confirm the imposter accessed Mr Bs account  and changed 
things online -not on the phone, as it seems this had been  the suggestion earlier on. Mr B 
says this contradiction  hints that NewDay was providing misleading information  but theres 
nothing to suggest there was any such intention.  And its not entirely clear to me how this 
confusion happened. But Im satisfied  the change was made  online.  
Mr B has asked  for more  detailed answers around what  happened.  But sometimes, this just 
isnt possible to know. As Mr B himself  noted in his submissions, it is at least  accepted  that 
there is enough to show it wasnt Mr B who changed the address on his account. 
And as Mr B has maintained hes not disputing any transactions, there  is nothing  to remedy 
here  fortunately, Mr Bs account was not actually used by the imposter.  
fees, charges  and default 
As our investigator noted, there is nothing available in the submissions  to suggest Mr B was 
guaranteed that charges  and interest  wouldnt  be applied to his account.  And under the 
terms and conditions it explains  Mr Bs responsibility  to maintain his contractual  minimum 
Ref: DRN36433085payments each month, even if he doesnt  receive a statement  or has not been able to 
access a statement online. The terms say that a customer  can contact NewDay  for the 
information needed. The terms also explain interest and fees will still be charged even if 
statements arent received. 
As Mr B was in contact with NewDay while he didnt have access  to his account online, I 
think its reasonable to say he would have been able to find out what  payments he needed to 
make. And as Ive already said, Ive not seen anything to make  me think  it had been  agreed 
that Mr B wouldnt have to make  any payments. 
Mr B also hadnt cleared  his balance on the credit card with his payment of £343.70  in 
August 2018  further spending using the card meant another balance  had accrued on the 
account relating  to transactions he had made.  So Mr B was required to pay for those. I note 
that Mr B has never said he couldnt make the payments either. It therefore still remained Mr 
Bs responsibility to make  the required payments to the account, especially when he chose 
to cancel his direct debit  instruction. 
As Ive described above, several communications were  sent to Mr B about  needing  to make 
payment to his account. The communications were sent to Mr Bs correct  contact details  and 
Mr B told NewDay on 17 December  2018 hed received the Default Notice.  So its difficult  to 
say Mr B was unaware payments were  required or what could happen if these  payments  
werent made. I also think its reasonable to say Mr B had time before the deadline given in 
the Default Notice  to make the required payment. 
I understand Mr B was still seeking  answers to various questions  about his account and that 
he had general  concerns  about NewDay, but in the circumstances  I cant ignore that Mr B 
still had a responsibility to pay back the credit hed borrowed. 
NewDay has already  recognised that they could have been clearer earlier  on with Mr B that 
interest and charges were not being frozen while his concerns were being investigated by 
the complaints  team  and fraud department. In their letter dated 15 July 2019 NewDay 
apologised that their collections associate  (at the end of August  2018) could have  been  
better at highlighting to Mr B that he should  continue with his payments as per the terms and 
conditions of his account. I think the agreement to pay £75 to recognise this remains  fair in 
the circumstances, as while NewDay could have been clearer earlier  on, Mr B went  on to 
receive several communications about making payments to his account. 
NewDay issued the Default Notice on 30 November 2018. And from what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied they followed  the required process around  this. So Im unable  to say NewDay has 
done anything  wrong here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Mr Bs complaint is upheld in small part and 
that NewDay Ltd pay Mr B £75 if it has not already done so in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2021.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3643308