K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H complains about delays and mistakes by Tandem Bank Limited when  processing  a 
credit card application. Mrs H also complains that Tandem blocked her credit card. 
Background
Mrs H applied for a credit  card with Tandem on 10 April 2018. Tandem says it wrote  to 
Mrs H and requested identification but no response  was received. Mrs H has told us she 
didnt receive Tandems letter. 
On 28 April 2018 Mrs H contacted Tandem and explained she hadnt received anything from 
it. A complaint was raised but Tandem didnt send Mrs H anything  else to move her 
application along. 
Tandem issued its final response on 9 July 2018 and apologised that it hadnt followed up 
Mrs Hs 30 April 2018 contact sooner. As a result of the delay, Mrs Hs application had 
expired. Tandem took steps to remove the application information from Mrs Hs credit file 
and offered £30. Mrs H forwarded  her bank details but Tandem  didnt pay the settlement.  
Mrs H reapplied and her credit card application was successful. On 16 November 2018 
Mrs Hs credit card was blocked due to suspicions of fraud  by Tandem. Mrs H contacted 
Tandem and the block was removed. Mrs H queried whether the settlement had been paid. 
Mrs H referred  her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He said we 
could only deal with certain parts of Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs Hs complaint was referred to me 
and I issued a decision that confirmed we arent  able to look at her concerns relating  to the 
delay in Tandem  paying the £30 settlement or the information it provided  about its 
complaints process.  I confirmed we could look at Mrs Hs complaints  about the delay  with 
her credit card application along with Tandems decision to block  her card in 
November 2018.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As per my previous decision and 
comments above, Im only able to make  a finding  on Mrs Hs complaints  about delays with 
her application  and the card block in November 2018. 
Mrs H contacted Tandem  on 28 April 2018  to check on the progress of her application. 
Tandem said it would  raise a complaint and should  have forwarded Mrs H details of how to 
proceed. But Tandem has confirmed it failed  to do that which  led to Mrs Hs application 
expiring. 
Tandem responded  to Mrs Hs complaint on 9 July 2018 and made sure the application 
information was removed from Mrs Hs credit file. Im pleased she was able to subsequently 
open a new credit card in July 2018, around three months after Mrs H first applied.  Tandem 
offered Mrs H £30 because of its errors. I appreciate there was a degree of inconvenience 
for Mrs H. Ive considered  what Mrs H has told us about how the delay affected her. I think 
the £30 Tandem offered fairly  reflects the impact of the situation  on Mrs H and is fair in all 
the circumstances. As a result,  Im not telling  Tandem to increase  its offer. 
Ref: DRN36425472Tandem blocked  Mrs Hs credit card on 16 November 2018  because of a suspicious 
transaction. After  Mrs H spoke with Tandem the block was removed. Ive looked  at the credit 
card terms  and they say Tandem can place a block or hold on a card if it has suspicions of 
fraud on the account. In this case,  I appreciate the transaction was genuine but Tandem was 
acting in line with the terms when it blocked it. Mrs H says she received unclear text 
messages from Tandem about the blocked transaction which  meant her purchase was 
delayed. But Tandems  call notes show the block was removed at around  09:19 on 16 
November 2018  and that Mrs H was advised to attempt the transaction again. I havent been 
persuaded there was an unreasonable delay or that Tandem acted unfairly  by blocking Mrs 
Hs credit  card. 
As I explained in my previous  decision,  our service  is limited  in terms of the complaints were 
able to deal with. For the reasons I gave,  were only able to look at Mrs Hs complaints about 
the delay in her initial  credit card application  and Tandems decision to block her credit  card 
in November 2018. Having considered everything  that both Mrs H and Tandem have 
provided, Im satisfied its existing offer of £30 is fair in respect of the application delays and 
mistakes. I havent found that Tandem  acted incorrectly in November 2018  so Im not telling  
it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3642547