K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains about the refund  she received from PSA Finance UK Limited.
background
I set out the background  to Miss Rs complaint in the provisional decision I issued for this 
complaint earlier this year. However,  I repeat  that background here so that all relevant 
information can be found in this one document.
In October  2017 Miss R acquired a used car supplied by PSA under a conditional  sale 
agreement. The conditional sale agreement was brokered by the car dealership  whose 
showroom she went to when looking for a car. The car dealership  is a firm, and Ill call it 
P.
In summary,  Miss R tells us from very early  on, that is within 30 days, she complained 
about the quality of the car to both PSA and P but, she suggests,  neither would  help her. 
She told us she contacted  PSA by email, to reject  the car in November 2017. It asked her 
to supply her registration number  which she says she did. But according to Miss R, she 
got no reply.
Miss R decided to try another tack.  She tells us she tried to use PSAs online portal to 
cancel her agreement  but could  not. She suggested  this was because  she had been given 
the wrong details  about her agreement so had put in the wrong reference.
Eventually, in December  2017, and then again in March 2018, P looked at the car. Each  
time it appears it said the car had been repaired and was road-worthy.
Finally, in June 2018, an independent expert  third party assessed the car by doing an 
on road test. The expert was a firm which I will call R. Following this on road assessment 
R did a report that suggested that the car lacked power, and it suggested the cause  of this 
needed to be investigated. In response to the report, in July 2018, PSA collected  the car, 
ended the agreement and agreed  to give Miss R a refund.
According to PSAs records,  in August 2018  PSA paid Miss R £1,650.86 which  included  a
refund of all the repayments she made  during the 9 months she had the car (9 x £150.86 =
£1,357.74). It also refunded the repayment it received from her for July 2018 (£150.86). 
Plus, in November 2018, also according to PSAs  records, PSA paid Miss R £172.95  for the
cancellation of her insurance  policy. So, it appears in total she has had a refund of £1,974,67
(= £1,650.86  + £150.86 + £172.95). 
Miss R appears to agree that she got the refunds  mentioned above. However, Miss R 
indicates these  refunds  do not go far enough. In addition to what  she has already received, 
she wants a full refund of her car insurance premium for the entire period that she had the 
car. The premium was £2,060.46. It appears her position is that if shed been allowed to 
reject the car when  she wanted to, namely in November 2017,  she would never have run up 
this cost in the first place. 
PSAs stance which it set out when it gave Miss R its last word on this matter  in its final
response letter is that it has already made  an appropriate payment to Miss R and it need  do
nothing more.
Ref: DRN37301412Dissatisfied with PSAs final response  Miss R came  to our service.
I looked at Miss Rs complaint. I came to the conclusion that I had no proper basis to ask 
PSA to do anything further. I repeat below what I said in my provisional decision about why I 
had come to this outcome.
First, Im very aware  that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative  to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because  Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied  I dont need to comment on every individual  argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The agreement in this complaint is a regulated  consumer credit agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. PSA is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about their quality. The Consumer Credit Act 
1974 is relevant  to this complaint as it sets out some of the rights that arise between  a
supplier of both finance  and goods  and a consumer.
In addition, the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. It says 
that under  a contract  to supply goods,  there is an implied term that the quality  of the goods 
is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory. However, it seems that PSA has accepted  
that Miss Rs car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. It follows that the only 
question here now is does the redress it has offered so far go far enough?
I recognise that from Miss Rs perspective she thinks she was forced by PSA to keep hold of 
a car that she did not want. And I realise she feels she was made to insure the car because 
by law it had to be insured. Further, Miss R seems to also think  that because  she says she 
complained in November 2017 the clock ought  to run from this point.  In the sense  that the 
CRA gives her a short term right to reject that is within 30 days,  and that as far as she is 
concerned, is what she did. But it is not as simple  as that.
The law gives her the right to reject a car but only if it is not of satisfactory quality. However,  
as far as I can see in November 2017  it had not been established if the car was of 
satisfactory quality or not. The fact that Miss R was dissatisfied with the car was not enough, 
by itself, to show the car was of unsatisfactory  quality.  In other words, the short  term right to 
reject under the CRA  is not an absolute right to reject for any reason. It is a right to reject 
only when its conditions  are met.
Ref: DRN37301413Miss R also mentions trying to cancel the contract. Certain contracts such as hers have a 
cooling off period in which  they can be cancelled. Miss R indicates  that she was given the 
wrong agreement  number that is why she could not cancel it. I have seen a copy of the 
agreement which PSA says Miss R was given too, and that has the correct number on it. But 
Miss R says she has an email to show she was given the wrong agreement  number.  I have 
not seen that email.  As it stands, on balance, it seems Miss R could have cancelled the 
agreement if she had wanted to do so. Even if I accept that Miss R was prevented  by PSAs  
mistake from cancelling the agreement in November  2017, which I dont, Id not say PSA has 
to give her the refund she asks for. This is because as I explain below I think she ought fairly 
and reasonably pay for the use she has made of the car.
In any event it is not clear  what  the problem was at first. The invoice for when the car was 
returned in December 2017 talks about  Miss R complaining about brake noise and the EML 
light being on. These are not the problems that the expert said needed  investigating. It is not 
ideal that PSA did not come back to Miss R when she says she contacted  it in November 
2017, although PSAs case notes dont show that she did contact it in November 2017.  But 
in any event, I dont  agree she lost out because  of this. I say this because  I dont  think  it 
likely that PSA would  have accepted  rejection at that point. And given that as I have  
explained above at that stage there was no persuasive information to show  that the car had 
a problem that would make  it of unsatisfactory quality I dont think  Miss R was treated  
unfairly at this juncture.
I dont agree that PSA ought to have  done more in March 2018 either. The invoice for this 
visit suggests that brake noise and an acceleration problem  were  investigated and fixed  by
P. A repair  is an acceptable remedy according to the CRA in these  circumstances. I realise 
that Miss R didnt agree that the problem with the acceleration had been  fixed, and it seems  
she was correct about that, as the experts report showed in July 2018. But in March 2018 
there was only Miss Rs word against Ps who was more expert than Miss R was about  the
topic. So, I dont  think that it was unreasonable for PSA to rely on what P said. Moreover, 
PSA did not close the door entirely  it was open to getting more analysis done which is why 
it agreed to get the expert to carry out the assessment when Miss R continued to complain.
Miss R asks for the whole of the premium she paid for her car insurance. From the letter I 
have seen from her insurer the total premium she paid to cover  October  2017 to July 2018 
was £2,060.46. I agree with her that it would be fair and reasonable to compensate  her for 
the insurance that she paid from the point  that she stopped using  the car. I recognise  she 
chose to stop using the car but that seems  a reasonable choice for her to have made  
given what R says this about the driving experience of the car. Namely R says:
the engineer considered  the general  performance to be distracting and below that 
expected of todays modern vehicles.
In these circumstances, I think most  reasonable people would have stopped driving  the 
car. Further, it is correct that Miss R was legally required to keep the car insured if she 
wanted to drive it. But the point is she most  likely did not drive  it on a consistent  basis after 
the end of March  2018  because the car was not of satisfactory quality which is something 
that PSA is responsible for.
However, I also think Miss R should have  to pay for any use she had of the car, it is clear  
she used it. The mileage  when the car was first supplied was 39,000  miles and when it was 
returned to PSA it was just under 41,000 miles.  It also seems  that Miss R was using  the car 
Ref: DRN37301414up to and including March 2018 and possibly after this point  too. For example, R describes 
Miss R using to car in July 2018  to pick up a child from school on the day of the 
assessment. That said Miss R might have  used the car on that day as a one-off  as she felt 
safe with R in the car with her. So, on balance, I am finding that Miss R did not use the car 
on a consistent  basis from April 2018 onwards. However, PSA refunded her for every  
month she had the car, including the months when I find it likely that she used it 
consistently, so I would have to factor that into any payment I would award her.
As I have already  mentioned,  PSAs  records show, that Miss R received a refund of her 
monthly repayments totalling £1,375.74  (= £150.86  x 9). Miss R has not said that these 
records are wrong. Specifically, PSA refunded  Miss R for the months  between  October  
2017 and March 2018 when I find she was using the car. That means I think it over 
refunded her by £905.16 (= 6 x £150.86). And possibly more because  she did use the car 
in July 2018.But I am persuaded  on balance she stopped using the car day to day from 
April 2018, as I said above.
Miss R claims  £2,060.46 when I take off the £905.16  I mention above  that leaves £1,154.84.
However, I also think it is fair and reasonable that Miss R should  have  to pay the 
insurance for the time she had and used the car, that is October 2017 until March 2018 
inclusive. As I have already mentioned, the letter from Miss Rs insurer suggests  the total 
premium she paid to cover October 2017  to July 2018 was £2,060.46. Which suggests  
the insurance per month was £206.05 (= £2,060.46/10). She drove  the car between  
October and March so should have paid £1,236.30 (= £206.0  x6) in insurance.
If I take the £1,236.30 off the £1,154.84  PSA actually owes her nothing.
In summary,  I recognise my conclusions may well disappoint Miss R. But Miss R has 
asked that PSA pay her for the costs that she ran up as a result of its breach of contract. 
That I find fair and reasonable. But when I look at what she is fairly  owed I have to factor  in 
all relevant costs that she is responsible for, as well as what PSA owes,  as I have done  
above. I cant just look at one side of the equation  and ignore the other, that would not be 
fair and reasonable. And when I do that, I have  no proper basis to ask PSA to pay her 
anything further.
I invited both Miss R and PSA to respond  to my provisional decision should they wish to. 
As far as I am aware  neither party chose to respond.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has sent in any new information following the issuing of my provisional 
decision. That being so, it follows that I have come to the same conclusions  for the same 
reasons as I did in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN37301415Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3730141