K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains DSG  Retail Limited trading as Currys  PC World (Currys) didnt send him a 
letter to tell him that the interest  free period  of his finance agreement  had ended and hes 
unhappy that he had to pay some  interest as a result.  
background
On 31 January 2018 Mr P bought an electrical item instore at Currys on a credit agreement. 
He says that at the point of sale he was advised  that he would receive  a letter  to remind  him 
of the end of the six month  interest  free period, referred to as the Special Offer  Date  
(SOD).
Mr P came to us as he was unhappy with the response from Currys when he complained  to 
them about  not knowing when the interest free period was due to end. He was also unhappy 
that he hadnt received a letter shortly before the SOD notifying him of the end of the period 
as he says hed been told at the point of sale.  
Currys didnt uphold  the complaint. They said when Mr P received his credit  agreement it 
confirmed his SOD and he was also sent an email to active  his online account as this was 
where statements  were sent. But as they hadnt been able to obtain  a testimony from the 
store where Mr P took out the agreement, as a gesture of goodwill, they arranged for £30 
compensation to be paid to him. 
Our investigator didnt  think Currys had treated  Mr P unfairly  in the circumstances. Whilst 
appreciating Mr Ps frustrations that he had to pay interest at the end of his interest free 
period she was satisfied  that Currys did enough to tell him about the terms of the interest 
free period.  And she thought in any event  theyd apologised for not being able to find out 
what was said to Mr P at the time of the sale and have paid him £30 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill. She thought this was a reasonable way to resolve  the complaint.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of aspects of the transaction with Currys which Mr P is unhappy  about.  
This complaint relates only to notification of the end of the interest free period, which  Mr P 
says he was promised  would happen when he took out the agreement.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion  so I shant repeat that here.  Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to 
what the investigators already told Mr P. I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I 
agree with her analysis.
The information which Currys  have sent to this service satisfies me they did enough to make 
him aware  of the terms of the interest free period. The date by which the full amount has to 
be paid for no interest to be charged is clearly  stated on page one of the agreement. But 
theres no other requirement for Currys to notify  Mr P the interest free period had ended  or 
was about to. I know Mr P was keen to avoid any interest charges and can see he settled  
Ref: DRN39101452the agreement  shortly after the end of the interest  free period when interest became 
chargeable. Hes also told us he knew the interest free period was only for six months.  So 
even if he was expecting  a letter to arrive I think it was also his responsibility  to manage the 
account within the terms hes agreed  to.  
Given how strongly Mr P feels about  what happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with Currys informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr P.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3910145