K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Ageas  Retail Limited have unfairly required them  to pay an 
additional sum for their car insurance after alleging that they had failed to properly disclose 
the details of an earlier claim.
background
Mr and Mrs J applied for car insurance using a price comparison website. They  accepted a 
quote for insurance  from Ageas,  although  the policy  was through a high street  retailer 
intermediary. As Ageas is the actual insurer I will refer to it throughout, including  when 
talking about the insurers website. 
When entering their details they had declared a previous accident  and claim by Mr J. On the 
price comparison  website  they selected  the option  that the incident involved hitting a 
stationery object. As a result the claim was correctly categorised as being  their fault 
meaning that an insurance  claim would have been  paid.  
They accepted the online quote but later were  told that they needed  to pay an additional 
sum. It was claimed that when entering their details they had wrongly declared the previous 
accident as being non-fault which had wrongly led to a reduced  premium. Ageas explained 
that on checking the claims database it had found that the accident had led to a claim which  
meant the premium should have been higher  than what  was quoted. Ageas says that it 
offered Mr and Mrs J the option to cancel their policy and pay cancellation fees or pay the 
additional premium  to remain covered. They chose the latter.
Mr and Mrs J say that they didnt receive  an initial letter asking for the extra premium but 
only became aware of an alleged outstanding  amount when being chased to provide 
documents. They spoke to Ageas  and say that they felt compelled  to pay the extra premium 
to keep their insurance.  Mr and Mrs J say that they have no idea why Ageas  had a record of 
the claim as being  non-fault. They explained that theyd entered the reason for the claim 
correctly on the price comparison website and thered been no option to answer whether the 
claim was fault or not as it was obviously their fault as no other driver was involved. Ageas 
claimed that the website record had been changed  and that this had led to the error. 
Mr and Mrs J complained  to Ageas. They felt theyd done nothing  wrong.  Ageas said its 
records showed that during the process of obtaining the quote the details passed across to 
its own website where the consumers could  check the details theyd entered. It says that at 
this stage Mr and Mrs J had changed a key answer  about the impact  of the claim. The 
question asked: was the NCD affected  when this claim was made  and the answer was 
changed from yes to no. There were some  advisory notes that instructed the user to 
answer yes if there would have  been  a change  if the NCD wasnt protected.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to this service. They said that they had no recollection of being  on 
Ageas site or changing any information. They  argued that theyd properly answered  the 
question about  the claim and were  aware  that the answers  made this a fault claim. They 
felt that theyd answered correctly and that the price theyd been quoted, and accepted, 
should stand.  They said that they hadnt received documents  from Ageas  and had felt 
trapped and forced to pay the extra premium to keep their insurance protection. But they felt 
so strongly that theyd  been treated unfairly  that they wanted this service to investigate and 
to require that the extra premium be refunded. 
Ref: DRN37874602Our adjudicator agreed with Ageas that Mr and Mrs J had at some point provided incorrect 
information about the claim. He had investigated  the online process and confirmed that 
Ageas own website had to be entered and the details verified before the quote could 
progress. He acknowledged that the initial information on the price comparison website was 
correct but accepted the evidence from Ageas that the later answer  about  NCD had been 
changed. He was also happy  that Ageas had sent relevant information to Mr and Mrs J, 
including the policy documents confirming what had been entered  online.
But he didnt  agree that Ageas had acted fairly.  He felt that it had wrongly demanded the 
extra premium as that the law didnt allow it to do so. He pointed out that the Consumer  
Insurance Disclosure and Representation Act 2012  (CIDRA), which lays out the 
requirements on consumers to provide accurate answers to questions  also details the 
options available to an insurer when there is a qualifying misrepresentation. And none of 
those options  include requiring the payment of an additional premium. I will explain more on 
this issue in my findings section below. The adjudicator concluded that Ageas shouldnt have 
demanded payment of the extra premium but should have explained the options  available. 
That could have  included  cancelling the policy and returning the premiums.  
  
The adjudicator concluded that Ageas  should refund the additional premium taken.
Ageas didnt accept  the decision. It argued that the complaint was actually about whether 
Mr and Mrs J had misrepresented their previous accident and that the adjudicator  had, in 
fact, agreed with Ageas. It felt that the issue of what happened  after wasnt  relevant to the 
complaint. And it also argued that it had clearly offered Mr and Mrs J the option  to cancel 
their policy and the costs  for doing  so. 
As Ageas has disagreed with the adjudicators view the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My conclusion is that the adjudicator was right to require the additional premium to be 
refunded and I will explain why.
I will focus first on what I think is fair in the application of the rules under CIDRA.  Thats  the 
issue that Ageas disagrees with in this case after the adjudicator agreed with their approach 
generally on the facts  around the completion of the initial quote. But I will later cover also 
some reflections on the process in this case around the initial  issues  of disclosure.
CIDRA lays out the options  available  to an insurer in a case of a qualifying  
misrepresentation. In doing so it distinguishes between careless  and deliberate  or 
reckless misrepresentations. Ageas itself has chosen to interpret this case as being one of 
careless misrepresentation. If it had chosen  to interpret this as a deliberate or reckless  
act then it would have had the remedy to void the policy,  meaning  that it would be cancelled 
from the start. For the record I think that its decision in this respect was right as on the 
evidence Ive seen  there would  have  been  no basis to interpret this as a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN37874603As a result, and in the circumstances of this case,  the Act entitles the insurer to either cancel  
the policy and return the premiums,  or to notify the policy  holder that any future  claim will be 
paid proportionately. That is, the percentage by which the premium was unpaid could be 
taken off of any future claim payable.  The view of this service is actually that it is often  likely  
to be a better and fairer  outcome for both parties if another  option  is explored, and that is to 
do what was done here;  the paying  of the additional  premium. But, that should be an option 
offered, not demanded, with the policy holder understanding what the alternatives are. For 
clarity I confirm that I take the view that its for the insurer to decide  what the alternative is, 
whether it chooses  to cancel or offer proportionate  cover going forward. But crucially, this 
service also takes the view that the option to cancel must be costless  for the policy  holder. 
That is, that there is no penalty  charge  for cancellation. The Act speaks  of premiums being 
returned, not of any charges being taken out of that refund.
So our view is that when  the insurer feels that the misrepresentation isnt deliberate  or 
reckless the option  to cancel without cost is a key part of the potential  outcome. This 
maintains an important principle of fairness  in insurance pricing, that the consumer has the 
free choice to decline a new premium price which arises after the original  contract has been 
agreed. 
In this case Mr and Mrs J say they felt forced to accept the extra  premium charged. Its not 
clear to me whether they agree that Ageas offered them the option to cancel  and pay fees as 
opposed to there being no option but to pay. But Ageas  says it did offer cancellation. And 
the act of requiring the cancellation fees to be paid puts Mr and Mrs J into a position  which  
isnt supported by CIDRA and which, in my view, was unfair in the circumstances of this 
case and the alleged misrepresentation.
I disagree with Ageas  suggestion that these are issues outside of the original complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J felt that they shouldnt have been  required  to pay the extra premium. That 
requirement arose both from Ageas decision to interpret their completion of the online quote 
as a misrepresentation and also how they chose then to seek a remedy for that. And, in any 
event, this service has the remit to consider  any aspect of a dispute  in coming to a 
conclusion on what is a fair and reasonable outcome.     
Having decided that Ageas acted unfairly  in how it required  payment of the additional 
premium I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs J suffered a loss. And to do that I need  to 
consider what they would most probably  have done if Ageas had acted fairly. Im conscious 
that in this case the additional premium required was relatively small, at around £50. And, of 
course, Mr and Mrs J did choose to pay it when given the option to cancel or not. So Ive had 
to consider whether it would have made a difference to their decision if theyd  had the 
alternative to cancel the policy without any additional costs. Thats difficult to assess,  but Im 
mindful that in this case Mr and Mrs J have  felt so strongly about what they feel to be their 
unfair treatment that theyve complained  to Ageas and to this service in very strong  terms. 
But I think that in all of the circumstances of this complaint it would be fair and reasonable for 
Ageas to refund the sum. And part of my reason for thinking that is the right outcome is not 
only that I believe that Ageas acted unfairly  in the way it pursued the additional premium, but 
also that I think that Mr and Mrs J have some justification for feeling  as aggrieved as they do 
about their whole experience. I could choose to award compensation for that or I could 
choose to take issue  with the online process and the original arguments  about 
misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN37874604Because in practice I think that the decision to call the original submission a 
misrepresentation is a very close one. 
Mr and Mrs J are right that they honestly  declared the nature  of the incident which  by default 
was a fault claim. They dont  remember  being  on the insurers site but I understand that to 
be a part of a single  online process. They dont recall  making  any changes but I accept the 
evidence that on balance it looks likely  they did make one small change. But, that question 
asked about whether the claim made a difference to their no claims discount. And in its 
submission to us about the online process  Ageas itself said that the consumer may have 
been confused by the question as they had NCD protection. So, its possible that to 
Mr and Mrs J that was the right answer. The question didnt ask them whether they were at 
fault or not for the accident or whether a claim was paid by their insurer.  The notes below did 
explain what  was expected but not, in my view, as clearly and in as simple a language as it 
might have. And it seems  odd to be asking a consumer to tell the insurer  whether something 
makes a difference to their no claims discount  when those policies differ within  insurers  and 
are known to be poorly understood by consumers. If the intention is to establish whether the 
consumer was at fault for the accident  then a better question could be used to ask and 
establish that. And if the consumer has answered a question wrongly but done  so innocently, 
that is, having reasonably misunderstood  the question  being asked, then it wouldnt qualify 
as a non-disclosure in the first place.
In summary,  I agree with the adjudicator  that Ageas acted unfairly and should have offered 
Mr and Mrs J the option  to cancel free of charge. On balance Im satisfied that requiring 
Ageas to refund the additional premium is a fair outcome having regard to the whole 
circumstances of this case and is a fair remedy that properly compensates  them for their 
experience.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Ageas Retail Limited.  I require it to refund the additional 
premium, plus any fees, paid by Mr and Mrs J and to add interest  at the rate of 8% simple 
per annum  from the date it was paid until the date that it is refunded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3787460