K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited refused to pay his 
commercial vehicle insurance claim. 
background
Mr M phoned Markerstudy after he noticed smoke coming from under his van. He said his 
engine had caught fire and wanted to claim  on his policy.  
Markerstudy arranged  for an engineer to inspect  Mr Ms van. That engineer didnt think  there 
had been a fire and said the damage was purely a mechanical failure.  So Markerstudy 
turned down Mr Ms claim because it said mechanical failure  isnt covered by the policy.
Mr M didnt  think  this was right. He said there had been a fire and in any event Markerstudy 
had told him the claim would be covered  when  he phoned. He said that meant  it had to 
honour what it had said and pay the claim. He brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ms complaint be upheld.  He thought the engineers  
report explained why there hadnt  been a fire so the claim  wasnt covered by the policy.  
Mr M didnt  agree. He said he had a mechanics report that said there  had been  a fire and 
also a statement from Markerstudy  telling him the claim was covered. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mr Ms policy covers  him for third party, fire and theft. That means it provides cover for 
damage caused by fire. It doesnt  cover  him for damage caused by mechanical failure. 
I can see from Markerstudys  call notes that Mr M noticed smoke  coming from under his van. 
Hes provided a report from a mechanic that says Mechanic analysis: Over heating in 
engine burned  piston. The report doesnt  give any details  of the mechanic or why theyve 
come to that conclusion although it does provide some photographs of the engine  and turbo.  
I can see from these photographs  that some of the engine is damaged  but I can also see 
there are other parts that dont appear to be damaged. 
Markerstudys provided a report from an engineer. The engineer said I can confirm there 
are no signs of any fire having  occurred to the vehicle  or its engine. He thought the engine 
had suffered crankshaft  compression and started  to scavenge the oil from the engine sump  
which has caused the air filter to be contaminated with oil, which has poured onto the top of 
the engine and exhaust. This has caused  the smoke the insured experienced while travelling 
on the motorway and also caused  the engine to judder. He said his opinion  was that the van 
had suffered a mechanical failure  that led to smoke  coming from the engine. 
Given the detailed  explanation given  here Im more persuaded by the report  of this engineer. 
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with the engineers findings as the engineer wasnt  able to 
Ref: DRN37169712keep an appointment.  But the engineer  later confirmed hed inspected  the van and I think it 
was fair for Markerstudy to have  relied  on the report to turn down Mr Ms claim.  
While the engine might  have over heated and burned the piston I dont think  that means 
there was a resulting fire that caused  further  damage to the van. For that reason Im satisfied 
it was reasonable  for Markerstudy to say the claim wasnt covered. 
Mr M said Markerstudy told him the claim would be covered. Markerstudy  said it wouldnt 
have confirmed a claim was covered without looking into it. I havent listened  to that call and 
I dont think I need  to. Thats because even if I accepted  Markerstudy gave incorrect  
information it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to tell it to pay for something this policy doesnt 
cover. And as Mr M would always have needed to pay for this repair  himself I dont think hes 
lost out financially from being given incorrect information. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for but Im satisfied Markerstudys 
decision was fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3716971