K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 2008 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. She applied for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  RBS has told us the policy offered to repay around £600 a 
month towards Mrs Ms mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. And its also 
told us that at the time, it cost around  £32 a month.  
At the time,  Mrs M was employed as a nurse. She has told us she was entitled to 12 months  
sick pay, death in service  cover and she had savings available.  Mrs M has said she had 
suffered from some  medical conditions in the past.  The most recent one happened about 
four years before the time of the sale. 
RBS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2008.  And the 
mortgage offer indicates this was a regulated  mortgage. 
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
RBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means RBS should  have told 
Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means RBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN34617252The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN34617253General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
RBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like RBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ms 
case.
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so RBS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mrs Ms complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN34617254-If RBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether RBS gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
RBS, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
RBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. And its sent us copies of the 
mortgage documents Mrs M completed  at the time. 
On the mortgage  application, there  is a section about the PPI where applicants  are asked to 
select what level of cover they require. Or they can opt to not have any PPI. On Mrs Ms 
application shes opted to take cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment. RBS has 
also provided a copy  of the document where Mrs M gave her agreement to a number of 
options in relation to her mortgage   such as apply for the PPI and applying for other  
insurances through RBS. Mrs M signed in agreement  to these options. 
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer document Mrs M wouldve  received,  and on it the 
policy is described as Optional insurance  that you do not have to take out through  RBS. 
Mrs M also completed a separate direct debit  mandate for the PPI.  
Mrs M has said she felt rushed and pressured  to take out the PPI. I dont doubt  that these 
are her recollections. But I also have to consider  that the sale took place over 10 years ago. 
And the adviser  may have  told Mrs M it was a good idea to take out the PPI. But this isnt the 
same as pressure. The sale took place over a number of weeks  allowing Mrs M to reflect  on 
whether or not she wanted the product. The conditions  of the mortgage dont list the PPI as 
a compulsory element  that she has to have to get the lending.  And Mrs M hasnt expanded 
on what made her feel pressured. So on balance, Im not persuaded that Mrs M felt she had 
no option but to agree  to the policy.  
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mrs M knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did RBS provide advice?
RBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mrs M disagrees but shes not told us why 
she thinks she received  a personal recommendation from RBS.  Looking at what happened 
when RBS sold Mrs M the PPI, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that it was personally  
recommended to Mrs M.  
Ref: DRN34617255This means  RBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs M to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs M was given  a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have  taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
From the evidence at the time of sale, although the cost of the policy is listed on the 
mortgage offer document and it shows what the benefit of the policy was on the mortgage  
application, it doesnt tell us whether RBS gave sufficient information about  the actual cost or 
about the exclusions or limitations before Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think RBS gave  Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that RBS ought to have done  either. 
Ref: DRN34617256what effect did RBSs shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found RBS didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mrs M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs M suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs M would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had RBS done  things properly.  
Mrs M says she would not have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs M had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Mrs M was given  some information  about  the benefit  and the approximate  cost of the policy 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the actual cost and the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs M knew  she would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  RBS told her the exact  premium at the point she applied  for the 
policy. Having said that, it seems like Mrs M was told the cost in the mortgage offer and this 
was sent to her before  the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, 
so if the costs were  significantly at odds with her expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible she might  have  raised that with RBS at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
do her paid occupation, or similar occupation  she was able to perform  or may 
reasonably become  qualified to perform based on her education, training or ability.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking  out the policy.  
Ref: DRN34617257But the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs M says she had suffered from  
a couple of  medical conditions before the PPI was taken  out, the policy didnt  exclude  cover 
for existing  medical  conditions. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions. So I still think  she had some  good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
paid occupation  or similar  occupation, it might have  played into her thinking about what  she 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ms 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover. 
RBS may not have  told Mrs M that any claim she made would  be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. Mrs M 
has told us she had generous sick pay benefits she could  have  used so she didnt need the 
PPI policy. Ive thought  carefully about what shes said, but its very unusual  for an employer 
to provide 12 months full sick pay.
In my experience, I think its likely Mrs M was entitled  to some sick pay and the level 
wouldve been reasonably generous given the length of time shed been with her employer. 
But I think its unlikely she would have received the level of sick pay shes  told us she was 
entitled to. And as the policy would have  paid out alongside any sick pay she did get, it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. And her statutory redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs M would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. 
Ive noted Mrs Ms comments about the generous savings she had readily available.  Looking 
at her mortgage application, I can see that Mrs M had a similar amount she says she had in 
savings as an outstanding debt. So I think it was unlikely she had that amount readily 
available given this evidence. But  in any event  the policy  allowed for multiple  claims to 
be made, it could help reduce her outgoings at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure her 
home was not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve Mrs Ms sick pay, any 
possible savings or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Mrs M was made  redundant, or unable to work through  the accident or 
Ref: DRN34617258disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M would have taken 
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M wouldnt have  bought  the PPI she bought unless , in the particular  
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude RBS should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks RBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
RBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why RBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  RBS gave Mrs M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2008 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find RBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about the remedy  a 
Ref: DRN34617259court might award if it were to find that RBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3461725