K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains against the Society  of Lloyds about damage caused to her boiler when 
work was undertaken by engineers under a Corgi Homeplan insurance policy. 
background 
Mrs K held a Corgi Homeplan  insurance policy, which provided cover for the central heating  
and the boiler  at a rental property. 
Mrs Ks tenants found a leak from a valve, which was affecting a fuse board. In response to 
a call out, an engineer attended on 6 November. He recorded the radiator valve  was leaking 
and it had been resealed. The system was recorded  as being free from sludge. The engineer  
told the tenant that he had serviced  the boiler.
Following that visit, the tenant contacted Corgi on 7 November to say that the radiators  were  
all cold except one. No call out was made  as Corgi said they needed to speak with the 
owner of the property.
On 26 November, a further call out was made  as the boiler was cutting out and making  
banging noises.  An engineer attended  on 27 November.  He checked the pump, bled the 
system, recorded there was no air in it and recorded that the boiler was not free from sludge. 
The tenant also recalled  being told there was sludge  in the boiler. The engineer  
recommended a powerflush and stated that the main heat exchanger  was scaled up. Corgi  
advised that this wasnt  covered under the policy. So no repairs were undertaken. The policy  
automatically renewed on 30 November. 
When Mrs K spoke  to Corgi in January, the adviser said he thought  there was sludge in the 
boiler. At that point Mrs K contacted the original engineer directly, who said he could fix the 
boiler for £450.
As Mrs K had lost confidence and as the boiler  was making a loud banging noise, she 
instructed an independent engineer to assess  the boiler. 
The independent engineer recorded there  was a lack of water  in the boiler  and radiators, 
which had stressed the pump. He concluded  that air had been pumping around the system 
since November and it was likely  that the engineer that fixed the valve didnt top up or bleed 
the radiators.  The engineer thought that whilst  the boiler could be fixed, there remained a 
risk that it would break again. He recommended boiler replacement.  Mrs K replaced  the 
boiler at a cost of £2, 689 and has confirmed that there was no sludge  in the old boiler. 
Mrs K believes that Corgi engineers damaged the boiler. She seeks reimbursement of her 
premiums along with the cost of the replacement boiler and cost of heaters her tenants  
purchased. 
Initially it was maintained that the claim was declined in line with the policy  terms and 
conditions. Subsequently,  Lloyds reviewed the complaint and offered Mrs K £450 towards 
the cost of repair and up to a further £50 for cost of heaters (subject  to proof).
Our investigator considered the complaint.  Initially, she thought  that Lloyds had been 
entitled to decline  the claim as scaling was excluded under  the policy.  She also took into 
account that Mrs K chose  to replace the boiler,  whilst her engineer said it could also have  
been fixed. Our investigator pointed out that the maximum contribution for a replacement  
Ref: DRN37409532(given the age of Mrs Ks boiler) as at November  2017 would have been £400, but by 
February 2018 the boiler was outside the policy time limit for this contribution.  Upon review  
of the offer,  our investigator thought  it was fair and reasonable. She took into account the 
delay between the boiler inspections in November and February and noted that even if Corgi 
had identified that replacement was needed  in November, the maximum contribution  would 
have been £400.
Mrs K doesnt agree.  She maintains that the initial call out was for a leaking radiator and 
there had been  nothing  wrong with the boiler. She believes  that the engineers failed to fill 
water into the radiators and didnt pressurise  the system. Mrs K did not have receipts for the 
heaters.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked to see whether Lloyds have reached  a fair and reasonable outcome on the basis  
of the evidence available. Ive taken  into account the parties  recollection  of events and Ive 
looked at the call out notes and engineer reports from the time. Im mindful that no further 
evidence will be forthcoming as the boiler has now been replaced
Mrs K is adamant that the Corgi engineers damaged  the boiler. I agree that a problem with 
the boiler was identified  after the first engineer attended the property and at this point 
heating was lost. But it doesnt follow that the problems with the boiler were caused by the 
engineer. 
Mrs Ks engineer thought the system hadnt been  bled in November. But thats at odds with 
the contemporaneous records from the second engineer, which  state that the system was 
bled. I am also mindful that scaling of the heat exchanger was identified by the second  
engineer some three weeks after the first call out, but this is not commented on by Mrs Ks 
engineer at all. And any fault with the heat exchanger caused by scaling  would have been 
excluded under the policy, in any event. 
It is also clear  there has been  a great  deal of confusion about the presence of sludge in the 
boiler. Neither the first engineer nor Mrs Ks engineer found  any sludge. But its presence 
was recorded  on Corgis second visit. Again any fault caused by sludge in the boiler would 
have been excluded under the policy.
Looking at everything in the round, I am not satisfied that there  is enough evidence  to show  
that it is more likely than not that the problems  with the boiler were caused  by the Corgi 
engineers. It isnt clear  what the cause of the problems was. And even if the original 
engineers had recommended a replacement in November, the maximum contribution  under  
the policy for a boiler this old would have  been  £400. Ive also taken into account that Mrs 
Ks engineer said he could repair  the boiler,  albeit he couldnt guarantee that there wouldnt 
be further problems.  The original engineer also told Mrs K that he could repair the boiler for 
£450. So it was also open to Mrs K to repair the boiler rather than incur the full cost of 
replacement. 
Ref: DRN37409533Taking all this into account, I consider that Lloyds  offer of £450 is fair and reasonable. Mrs K 
hasnt provided  any supporting  evidence for the cost of heaters, so I wont be asking Lloyds 
to contribute to them.
my final decision
I consider that the offer of £450  is fair and reasonable. I direct the Society of Lloyds to pay 
Mrs K £450.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3740953