K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  
S.A. has declined a claim  for legal  expenses cover under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr C had an annual travel insurance policy (the policy) that provided cover  from 
29 September 2017 to 28 September 2018. 
In November 2017, whilst abroad in the USA, Mr C was hit by a vehicle. He suffered 
significant injuries and was hospitalised. His partner, who Ill call Ms P, contacted  Mapfre to 
report the incident and Mapfre provided cover for Mr Cs medical costs under the policy. 
Shortly after Mr C returned to the UK he sought to claim  on the legal  expenses  section of the 
policy to cover the costs  of him pursuing damages  against the driver of the vehicle  which 
had collided with him. Mapfre ultimately  declined this claim  because  whilst in the USA,  Mr C 
had already instructed a lawyer to represent  him. That lawyer obtained a settlement sum of 
$100,000 from the drivers insurer. Mapfre said Mr C had acted in breach of the relevant 
policy terms and prejudiced its position  to recover Mr Cs medical costs against the drivers 
insurer.
Mr C says thats unfair. He says hed suffered a near fatal collision and, initially, he was in no 
state to liaise with Mapfre. He also says Ms P didnt have access to his policy documents 
and Mapfre shouldve proactively given her the necessary information about the legal 
expenses cover under the policy. Had it done so, he wouldnt have appointed his own 
lawyer.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think  Mapfre had done anything 
wrong. Mr C disagrees so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything  
afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
The policy can cover  legal  expenses  but its a special condition  of the policy  that Mapfre  has 
full control over any legal  representatives, and any proceedings. 
By the time Mr C made a claim under the policy to cover legal fees,  in mid-December  2017,  
hed already instructed a lawyer in the USA to act on his behalf  and it looks  like that lawyer 
had provisionally  agreed a settlement  sum of $100,000 with the drivers insurer.  Mr C had 
also agreed that hed pay the lawyer 33.33% of the settlement amount to represent him.
As this was all done before Mapfre had been notified of the legal expenses  claim and without  
Mapfres agreement,  I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably  by declining to cover the 
legal costs incurred  by Mr C. 
By instructing his own lawyer, Im satisfied  Mr C prejudiced  Mapfres ability  to recover   
medical costs, and potentially other costs such as curtailment, directly  against the drivers 
insurers. Had Mr C contacted Mapfre before instructing his own lawyer, Im persuaded 
Ref: DRN37397882Mapfre wouldve appointed a representative to jointly pursue the drivers insurer  for 
compensation for Mr Cs injuries as well as Mapfres medical outlay. However,  due to the 
settlement Mr Cs lawyer obtained  which didnt include  compensation for his medical costs 
 Mapfre hasnt been able to recover the costs its paid. Those  costs  are considerable in this 
case. 
When making this finding Ive taken on board what Mr C says about Mapfres  
representatives giving Ms P incorrect information  about the policy terms during the aftermath 
of the collision.
After initially contacting Mapfre on 12 November 2017, Ms P was put through to its medical 
assistance team based in the USA to discuss medical arrangements. Ive listened to that 
call, and, towards the end, Ms P raises the issue of a personal injury claim and asks how 
they go about approaching that. Shes told that if either of them wanted to instruct  a lawyer,  
they would  need to let them  know so they could  coordinate with the subrogation department 
here. Mr Cs partner then asks who pays for the legal expenses. The representative says 
she didnt know as she only dealt  with the medical side of things and she didnt know  if Mr C 
had cover for legal  expenses. Ms P says shell look at the policy.
So, Im satisfied the information  given wasnt wrong  or misleading, and nothing said by the 
representative gave  the impression that if Mr C instructed his own lawyer, those fees would  
be covered under the policy. 
Mr C also says that as Mapfre was aware of the nature  of his injuries and that he was in the 
USA without direct access to his policy, it shouldve proactively given Ms P information about 
the legal  expenses cover  and the conditions that needed to be complied with under that 
section of the policy. I disagree.  In absence of Mr C, or Ms P, raising  specific  questions 
about the LEI policy with Mapfre (as opposed to its medical assistance team),  I dont  think  its 
representatives acted  unreasonably by not volunteering this information  when  Ms P was 
speaking to them about the medical claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask him to accept or reject  my decision before 26 October 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3739788