K820x#14complaint
Mr E says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002.
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So Ive referred to FICL 
during this decision.
background
There is very little information  available about the sale of this policy.
Mr E says that in 2002 he visited a garage and arranged a hire purchase agreement  to buy a 
car. He says that at the same time he was sold a regular premium PPI policy. 
Mr E says he didnt go ahead with the hire purchase agreement  and instead  bought  the car 
using other  means.
However, the PPI policy was put in place.  The PPI premiums were £16.66 per month and 
the first premium was taken from Mr Es bank account in March  2002.
Mr E complained about the sale of the PPI policy in 2018. In his initial complaint Mr E said 
he was told the PPI was not optional and was part of the hire purchase agreement. Mr E has 
also told us he didnt  know  about  the PPI and only recently realised it had been sold when 
he was reviewing some old bank statements in relation to a separate  matter.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr E disagreed 
with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
FICL hasnt  been able to send us any of the paperwork from the time and has virtually no 
information about where or how the sale took place. Although  this is frustrating I think  it is 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place in 2002.           
In addition, the finance provider has not been able to give us any information, which again 
isnt surprising given  that Mr E has told us the finance never went  ahead. But where there is 
limited information, I will make  my decision based on whats more likely to have happened,  
taking into account   the evidence available,  what  both  parties  have told me and what we 
know about these  types of sale.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. I realise Mr E will be disappointed so Ill 
explain my reasons below.
Mr E has told us the PPI wasnt presented as being optional and he was led to believe it was 
part of the hire purchase package that he was applying  for.
From experience I think its likely Mr E would have  had to complete a separate  application 
form and direct debit for the PPI. And I can see that the PPI premiums were  taken  directly  
Ref: DRN34201972from his bank account. So it seems likely the paperwork  showed  the PPI to be separate  from 
the hire purchase. 
The finance  didnt go ahead but the PPI did and this makes  me think  the paperwork for the 
hire purchase agreement was sent to the finance  provider while the paperwork for the PPI 
was sent to the policy insurer.
I cant know what was said during the meeting  and I accept it is possible the PPI was not 
presented as optional. But I also have to take into account the fact that the PPI premiums 
appeared on Mr Es current account statements from March 2002  onwards despite the hire 
purchase agreement  not going ahead.  If Mr E had not wanted the policy,  Id have  expected 
him to question the premiums at an early stage, but Ive not seen any evidence  that he did.     
I must also take into account that the meeting took place 17 years ago in 2002  and 
memories do fade.
Overall I think  it is most likely Mr E was made aware the PPI was optional.  And I think he 
chose to take the PPI knowing he didnt have to  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this after so long.
FICL most likely would have recommended the PPI to Mr E. Because  of this it had to check  
that the PPI was right for him and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  
I think that it was. 
We dont have a copy of the policy  terms and conditions,  but from experience I think it is 
likely Mr E wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  For 
example he wasnt  in an unusual employment  situation, and he had no medical  conditions  
that would  not have  been covered. So hed have been able to make  a claim if hed needed 
to.
Mr E has told us he had savings. But at the point of sale he was applying for finance  to buy a 
car rather than using his savings. So it seems  it was important to him to keep the savings 
intact. And the PPI would have allowed him to have met the repayments without having to 
dip into his savings.
Mr E has also pointed  out that his employer would have paid him sick pay for 12 months. We 
dont know how long the hire purchase agreement was to last. But I think  it would likely have 
been for more  than 12 months so I still think Mr E would have found  the policy useful if he 
became unwell, particularly if he couldnt  work  for an extended  period.
And the PPI would have paid a monthly  benefit if Mr E had lost his job. And as hed only 
been with his employer a couple of years I think  hed have received only a modest  
redundancy payment if that happened.
The policy cost £16.66 per month and Ive not seen any evidence  that this was unaffordable.
All this makes me think the PPI was probably  a suitable recommendation for Mr E. 
FICL also had to give Mr E clear  information about the policy.  Its possible that FICL didnt 
give all the information  it should have done. But thats not enough to uphold  this complaint.    
I next need to decide whether or not Mr E would have changed his mind  about buying the 
policy if he had been given better  or clearer information. Because  it looks like the policy  was 
right for him and affordable I cant say he would have done.  
Ref: DRN34201973So, taking everything  into account I think its likely Mr E was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose  to take it out. I think it was probably right for him. And I think  that even if 
Mr E had been given  clear information  about  the policy hed still have gone ahead and 
bought it. 
I realise Mr Es main  issue  is that in the end he bought the car without taking out the hire 
purchase agreement.  But I have looked  at the point of sale when Mr E was looking  to take 
out a hire purchase agreement and I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to him then.
It is very unlikely the insurance policy would have gone live without some paperwork, policy 
document, insurance schedule or welcome letter being sent to Mr E by the insurer.  And the 
premiums were taken monthly  from Mr Es bank account. Whilst I acknowledge that Mr E 
was dealing with a family illness at the time I think on balance he would have been  made  
aware of the policy and could have cancelled it if he no longer  wanted it to go ahead.  And 
Ive seen no evidence  that the insurer was, or should have been aware that the hire 
purchase agreement  had been cancelled.  Because of this I dont think  it would be fair for me 
to uphold the complaint because the insurer  didnt  cancel the policy  when Mr E decided not 
to go ahead with the finance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Financial  
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3420197