K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains (on behalf of himself and the estate of his late wife Mrs K) that Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Leeds Permanent Building Society  actually sold the mortgage and PPI to Mr and Mrs K. But 
Halifax and Leeds  Permanent Building  Society later merged, and Halifax  is responsible  for 
dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, in my decision Ill just refer to Halifax 
as the business that sold the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out PPI alongside a mortgage  in 1991. This protected  their mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event that Mr K couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He has mentioned a number  of complaints. Mainly, Mr K told us that he took the insurance 
because he felt he had no option  if he wanted the mortgage to be approved. And hes 
unhappy that our adjudicator didnt feel able to uphold  his complaint even though theres  
only limited information  now available about  the sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Halifax couldnt provide any paperwork signed  by Mr and Mrs K from the time of sale. But 
this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising that paperwork isnt still 
available after so long.  I wouldnt  expect  Halifax or Mr K to have kept this. So its not clear  
how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs K  Halifax couldnt  confirm this information.  But Mr K says 
he took out the mortgage and PPI at a Leeds Permanent  Building Society branch so I think 
this is probably what happened.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr and Mrs K took out PPI. Ive taken into 
account Mr Ks comments, including  what  hes said about feeling he had no option but to 
agree to take out PPI. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr K to recall exactly what 
was said so long ago. So what he says now about the way the PPI was sold isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. I must look at all the available information 
and decide what  I think is most likely. 
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of 
time. Their home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable  means  of ensuring their monthly mortgage repayments  were  
protected even  if Mr K couldnt  work. Looking at their circumstances at the time I think  that 
PPI offered  them protection that they couldve benefitted from having. 
Ref: DRN39200512On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs K were persuaded of the need  to protect 
their home by taking  out the PPI offered and they decided to buy the policy  to cover Mr K. 
Halifax wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
this mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI to them. Given  
the lack of paperwork showing how Halifax sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, I think  this is the 
fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes  extra obligations on the lender. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover  it 
recommends is suitable. So this is the approach Ive adopted in my decision. 
I think PPI was suitable, based on what Mr K has told me about his circumstances at the 
time. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the cover was just in Mr Ks 
name. He was eligible for the PPI policy. He couldve relied  on getting at least  3 months full 
sick pay. But PPI wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Ks work benefits and for longer  up to 
12 months per claim, giving Mr and Mrs K a valuable benefit at a difficult time. 
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid over 
and above this. But Im looking at Mr Ks contractual entitlement  because  thats  all he 
could safely rely on when he took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when 
it doesn't have  to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit 
in the event of a successful claim.
Also, the policy wouldve paid the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  if Mr K lost his 
job unexpectedly and he was unemployed. 
Multiple claims were possible under the policy so it couldve provided long term protection for 
the mortgage.
Ive taken into account that Mr K mentioned having  savings he couldve relied on  but 
I havent seen  any details about this. And I dont  know if Mr and Mrs K wouldve always had 
savings to depend on to make  their monthly  repayments. So this doesnt  affect  my overall 
view. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if this 
affected Mr K. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think that knowing more about 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Ks decision to take the 
policy out. And I dont  know  how the cost was explained, but the policy  seems to have been 
affordable. 
Taking everything into account  I think Mr and Mrs K still wouldve decided to buy the policy  
to protect  Mr K even  if theyd been better informed as it provided useful protection in their 
particular situation.  I dont think better information  wouldve put them off buying it. 
So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs K lost out as a result  of anything Halifax mightve done wrong. 
This means  it doesnt need to do anything  to put things right.  
Ref: DRN39200513In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr K has said, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators  view. I appreciate he feels  very strongly 
about this complaint. I understand  that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. In my 
decision Ive dealt with all the main points hes raised that have an impact on the outcome of 
his complaint and I hope that setting  out the reasons  as Ive done  will help explain  how Ive 
reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3920051