K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance (BPF) wont tell him why they rejected  his credit  application.
background
In December 2018 Mr D made a credit application  to BPF but they rejected it. It wasnt the 
first time hed been rejected  by them and he was confused, as he said hed lived at the same  
property for many years; had no mortgage  and paid all his credit cards  and direct  debits on 
time. So he asked  BPF to explain.
BPF said that Mr Ds credit application had been  manually assessed. They said they 
wouldve taken many factors into account  but didnt  explain which factors they relied upon to 
refuse the application.
So Mr D referred his complaint to this service. He said he was requesting information 
regarding what a company holds on him and he thought they should reveal it under freedom 
of information.
Our investigator explained that revealing the methods businesses used to establish whether 
they could lend or not would open  them up to fraudulent applications  so she didnt think they 
were being  unfair when  withholding this information.  
But Mr D disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know it will disappoint Mr D but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
A bank  will use a variety of tools to assess the risk in lending to a consumer. Those  tools  
may include for example, credit checks,  income  and expenditure analysis and previous 
payment history.   
But banks are reluctant  to release  detailed  information of the checks they conduct  because 
to do so would give potential fraudsters valuable information they could use to progress 
fraudulent applications.
So I dont  think BPF are being  unfair  here and I dont think  I can fairly ask them to divulge 
the criteria theyve used  in this case.
I completely understand that this is a frustrating issue for Mr D. Hes explained that he has a 
very good debt profile and he would therefore  expect to be approved for applications. He 
may contact  BPF for details of any information  they hold on him but that wouldnt include 
evidence of the process they applied when rejecting his application. That process is 
understandably commercially sensitive and Im afraid it wouldnt be reasonable to suggest 
BPF share it.
Ref: DRN39043552my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3904355