K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the actions  taken by Castle Trust Capital PLC (Castle) when a loan 
taken out by Mr M and secured on a buy-to-let  (BTL) property was due for repayment.  The 
complaint has been brought  by Mr Ms wife, Mrs M, on his behalf.
background
The history  of this matter can be summarised  briefly; the investigator set out the full 
background in detail  in a letter dated 5 December 2019. And whats happened isnt in 
dispute. The complaint is about whether Capitals actions were fair and reasonable, given Mr 
Ms circumstances.
Briefly, in 2014 Mr M took out a loan with Castle secured on a BTL property. It was an equity 
loan, by which I mean it wasnt a loan to purchase the property;  rather, it was a capital 
raising loan secured against a BTL property already owned by Mr M.
The loan was repayable in full (including  interest and fees and a percentage of the property 
value) three  years from the date of the agreement, which was signed on 12 October 2014.
In January 2018, after the loan matured, Capital  demanded  repayment. I am very sorry to 
note that by this time Mr M had been very ill for several years. Mrs M was dealing with things 
on his behalf.   She  explained to Capital that Mr M was trying  to sell part of his BTL portfolio 
so that he could repay the debt to Capital.
Unfortunately sales fell through and in December 2018 Capital instructed solicitors.  After 
further information from Mrs M about  progress on the property sales, no legal action was 
taken. The loan was repaid in August 2019.
Mrs M complained that Capital had failed to treat Mr M sympathetically. She said that the 
demands for repayment caused stress to Mr M, herself and their children. 
Capital didnt uphold  the complaint so Mrs M escalated it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator  looked at what had happened but didnt think Capital had acted  
unfairly or unreasonably. Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  First,  Id like to say how sorry I am that Mr 
M has been so ill for several years. I dont underestimate how difficult  this has been for the 
family. But I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and review the complaint 
impartially and objectively,  on the basis of the evidence.
I must also clarify  that, although  Ive noted all the points Mrs M has made  about  what  she 
says is the impact of Capitals actions on her, it is Mr M who is Capitals customer.  Mrs M is 
representing him in the same way that other consumers might instruct  a solicitor  or 
accountant to bring  a complaint on their behalf.   So whilst I dont doubt this situation has 
been upsetting for the family, I can only consider the complaint in the context of Mr M, as 
Capitals customer.
The starting point  here is that this is a commercial  loan,  taken  out on the expectation of both 
Mr M and Capital that it would be repaid in January 2018. (Here I note that Capitals 
Ref: DRN35206832solicitors inadvertently said the end date was July 2018, but this was simply an error. Whilst I 
note Mrs M was very upset  about this, nothing turns on it.)
Because of circumstances,  beyond the control  of all parties, the loan wasnt  repaid on time. 
Im satisfied that all efforts were made to repay the debt but again, due to circumstances 
over which Mr M and Capital had no control, that didnt happen until August 2019.
Mrs M has referred to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations  and guidance from the 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT) about  debt recovery, which she believes Capital has breached. 
But this is an unregulated loan and so isnt subject to FCA regulation. The OFT was wound 
up in 2014 so OFT guidance no longer  applies  either.  Nevertheless,  Capital is required to 
treat customers fairly and sympathetically and to take into account any vulnerability when 
engaging with them about debt repayment.  Balanced against that is Capitals legitimate 
expectation that it will receive its money  when payment is due, or within  a reasonable time 
thereafter.
After reviewing everything thats happened  Im satisfied Capital exercised reasonable 
forbearance. I fully appreciate  it wasnt  Mr Ms fault that the property sales fell through,  
delaying the debt repayment.  But, given  this type of loan, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for Capital  to press for payment. 
Whilst I accept  Mrs Ms perception is different, overall I dont think  the contact from Capital 
was oppressive or excessive, or constituted harassment. Im also satisfied Capital took note 
of Mr Ms illness and was happy to engage with Mrs M on his behalf. So in all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Capital  has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3520683