K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains a car Close Brothers  Limited supplied  to him under a conditional  sale 
agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
In early April 2018 Close  Brothers supplied a car to Mr P under  a conditional sale 
agreement. It was about 10 years  old, had covered 81,000 miles and cost about  £17,000.  
Within about a month Mr P informed the dealership  there was a knocking noise coming from 
the engine. The dealership wouldnt do anything about it so Mr P contacted  Close Brothers. 
Close Brothers considered the matter and concluded there  was a problem with the car, but 
that it had developed while the car had been  in Mr Ps possession. So it didnt  accept it 
needed to repair the car, or agree for it to be returned. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair so he complained to our service.  An investigator looked  into 
the matter. She concluded, in summary, that there was most likely a problem with the car 
when it had been supplied to Mr P, so she thought Close Brothers  needed to put things right. 
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said an engineer  had concluded the problem wasnt  present 
or developing when the car had been supplied to Mr P. It thought  the problem was a result of 
Mr P running the car on low engine oil. So it didnt think it needed to do anything. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a 
provisional decision saying I thought  the complaint should be upheld.  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) implies  a term into the conditional sale 
agreement that the car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier  and finance  
provider, Close Brothers is responsible for the quality  of the car its provided under 
the agreement. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, 
taking into account  all of the relevant circumstances, such  as the age, mileage and 
cash price of the car.  
Theres no dispute that there is a problem with the car. The issue  is whether it was 
present or developing at the time of sale, and whether it made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied.
Close Brothers had two independent engineers  inspect the car. 
The first concluded  the engine displayed  a severe knocking noise, which  required  
further investigation. It suggested  the engine required stripping.  Based on what  the 
engineer had access to he thought on the balance  of probabilities  the engine would 
have been in a compromised state  at finance inception.
Following this the engine was stripped. The second  engineer then inspected  the car. 
He said there was damage to the crank  and bearing  shells, which was the result of oil 
starvation. He concluded, in summary, that the noise would have been noticeable 
Ref: DRN33684862immediately when Mr P test drove the car, and as it wasnt noticed,  the damage  had 
developed since  the car was in his possession. 
Close Brothers thinks the problem was caused by Mr P. It says Mr P covered a lot of 
miles in a short amount  of time (about 3,000 miles in the space of a month)  and may 
not have responded as he should have  to a warning  light or a knocking  noise.  Im not 
persuaded this is the case.  
The second  engineer said he thinks the noise would have  been  apparent  
immediately when Mr P test drove the car, and as it wasnt noticed,  the damage  has 
developed since.  I see his point. But I dont think theres a suggestion that at the time 
of the sale the crank  and bearing shells were  damaged to the extent they were when 
Mr P reported the problem. If they had been,  I think its likely Mr P (or indeed the 
salesman) would have  raised a concern about it, as the engineer has suggested. 
Mr P isnt an engineer.  Nor was he familiar with the make and model of this car. So I 
dont think it can fairly  be said that he ought  to have identified a noise as a problem 
unless it was significant to the point of concern. When  the noise reached this point 
Mr P took the car to the dealership. So he didnt, for example,  continue  to drive the 
car to breaking point.  And hes explained  that when a low oil warning light came  on 
he topped up the oil. Neither engineer had concerns about the oil level when they 
inspected the car, which supports Mr Ps explanation. `
As I understand it, a main  cause of oil starvation  is a poorly  maintained, damaged, 
blocked or low quality oil filter. The second  engineer  commented on the filter, saying 
it was a genuine part but didnt appear to have  been  renewed  recently  and was 
heavily contaminated with debris from the failed bearing shells.  A car service usually 
involves an oil and oil filter change/renewal. The last service  completed on the car 
was in January  2016, meaning  a service was due in January 2018. A service  was 
therefore overdue by the time the car was supplied to Mr P in April 2018. I think its 
likely that the absence of a service  and change of oil and oil filter meant the quality  
and efficiency of the oil and filter had deteriorated significantly. Poor  oil and oil filter 
quality will impact on the lubrication and therefore  performance of the engine and 
could cause damage to the engine.  
There is a significant  problem with the car. I dont  think  a reasonable person would 
expect a car costing nearly £17,000 to have a problem like this so quickly. And Im 
not persuaded, for the reasons Ive set out above,  that Mr P caused the problem. 
Instead, I think its most likely there  was a problem with the car when it was supplied 
to him and this got progressively worse while he had it. It follows that I intend to 
uphold this complaint as I dont think Mr P was supplied with a car of satisfactory  
quality.
putting things  right 
Close Brothers has said if this complaint is upheld it should have the chance to repair  
the car. I dont think this is appropriate  in the circumstances. Mr Ps relationship with 
the dealership  has broken down, so I dont think a repair  there would be suitable. And 
its been about a year since  the problem first arose,  so I think Mr P would  - 
understandably - prefer to move on, rather  than wait for what  I think  are likely to be 
significant and time consuming repairs to take place. I think  Close  Brothers should:
Ref: DRN33684863-take the car back at no cost to Mr P; and
-cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owed by Mr P, and 
remove it from his credit  file.
The car needed its engine stripping so it was taken  to a third party  garage. The car 
has remained there since then and the third party garage is asking Mr P for storage 
fees. Close Brothers thinks that Mr P should  bear this cost.  I dont agree. As Ive 
said, I dont think the car supplied to Mr P was of satisfactory quality. Had it been, the 
car wouldnt have  needed  stripping, so it wouldnt have been  placed with a third party  
garage, and no storage fees would be payable. Im also mindful that it wasnt  Mr Ps 
choice to have  the car stripped by the third party garage and given the engine had 
been stripped  it would likely have been  difficult to move. Overall, Im not persuaded 
Close Brothers can fairly say Mr P is responsible for the storage fees,  so I think  it 
should:
-pay the third party  garage storage fees if Mr P provides an invoice  to show  
hes either paid them,  or is being asked to pay them.  Close Brothers should 
not seek to recover  this cost from Mr P.
Mr P had use of the car from 3 April 2018  (when he got the car) to 4 May 2018 (when 
he took it to the dealership).  And he had access to a courtesy car from 24 May 2018 
to 8 August  2018. So in the roughly  12 months since the agreement  was taken out 
hes had about  three  months of car use. I think Close  Brothers should:
-refund  any payments  Mr P has made towards  the conditional sale agreement  
from the fourth payment onwards, with simple interest at 8% a year from the 
date each payment  was made  until the date each is refunded.
Mr P has been caused distress and inconvenience.  In particular hes had the hassle 
and inconvenience  of having to make alternative transport arrangements for several 
months, and the uncertainly of not knowing whether  or not hed have  to pay 
significant repair and storage fees.  I think there should be some  recognition  of what  
Mr P has been through. I think Close Brothers  should:
-pay Mr P £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Mr P responded to my provisional decision to say he accepted it, but felt more  compensation 
was appropriate  given the stress and hassle hed endured. Close Brothers  didnt respond  by 
the deadline I set. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr P has said. I accept he was caused  stress and hassle. But I 
remain of the opinion that £350 fairly reflects  this. In all other  aspects of this complaint no 
further evidence  or arguments have been put forward, so I see no reason to change my 
mind. 
Ref: DRN33684864my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Close Brothers Limited to:
-take the car back at no cost to Mr P;
-cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owed by Mr P, and 
remove it from his credit  file;
-pay the third party  garage storage fees if Mr P provides an invoice  to show  hes 
either paid them,  or is being asked to pay them. Close  Brothers should not seek  to 
recover this cost from Mr P;
-refund  any payments  Mr P has made towards  the conditional sale agreement  from 
the fourth payment onwards, with simple interest* at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made until the date each  is refunded; and
-pay Mr P £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Close Brothers Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mr P accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Close Brothers Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3368486