K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of a poor holiday experience.
background
In October  2017 Mr F booked a cruise for him and his wife and flights  to the departure  point. 
This was done though an online agent  I will call H. He says the airline  failed to deliver  their 
luggage before the cruise departed and this had a major impact  on their holiday.  I gather 
they were provided  with some essential  items by the airline.
Initially Mr F paid by credit card, but wished  to avoid the 2% surcharge and so a few days 
later paid by other means and H refunded his credit  card account. He says H and the airline 
refused his claims for compensation and so he made claim against the bank under section 
75. 
It was slow to respond and then rejected the claim.  The bank said that the money had been 
refunded and therefore there was no need  to do anymore. It also said that if that wasnt the 
case it didnt think his claim  had any merit as H wasnt responsible  for a failure  by the airline.  
This was set out in its terms and conditions.
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said the initial  payment made by credit  
card had been reversed and therefore  the bank  hadnt funded the purchase.  She didnt 
believe that section  75 applied to this transaction.
Mr F didnt  agree and said he had used his card to pay for the holiday and the debt had 
been repaid by H rather than re-credited. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs credit card statement shows a payment being  made on 29 October and then being re-
credited on 10 November. Mr F has said that there  was a time limited offer for the holiday 
and he needed  time to arrange his finances  to fund it. In effect he used his credit card to 
hold the holiday  while he found alternative means of paying  for it. He did so to avoid the 2% 
surcharge for paying by credit card.
This suggests that he never intended to pay by credit card and used it as device to reserve 
the holiday rather than pay for it. It was simply as a holding mechanism to allow  him time to 
access the funds  to pay for it. 
As our investigator has explained section.75 of the CCA provides protection to consumers 
for goods or services bought using credit. It says:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor
Ref: DRN33271592Thus the creditor is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
The legislation covers  transactions financed  by the agreement. But here H refunded his 
credit card payment which made it null and void. It didnt pay Mr Fs credit card debt. If H or 
Mr F had settled  his card debt then he would have been liable for the surcharge, but as the 
charge was negated by the credit  by H he suffered no surcharge. 
Furthermore, the bank  didnt seek payment  from him so he wasnt  a creditor  and that means 
there was no debtor-creditor-supplier chain as required by the law. The debt would only 
crystallise when the bank  sought payment under  the terms and condition of its agreement 
with Mr F. It didnt  seek payment from him as the payment was reversed before the 
statement was issued  and he was due to pay. Quite simply the transaction was not funded 
by payment though his credit card account.  
While I have every sympathy with Mr F I cannot require the bank to do something  it is not 
legally obliged to do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 October 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3327159