K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company  SA-NV  took the decision to 
withdraw his personal  accident insurance policy. 
background
Many years ago Mr L took out a personal  accident insurance policy (the policy)  with CIGNA. 
The policy renewed  each  year. 
In December 2018, CIGNA wrote to Mr L to explain  that following an extensive business  
review, it was going to stop providing  personal  accident cover.  This meant  that when his 
current period of cover expired in August 2019 he would  need  to find an alternative provider 
if he wanted to remain insured.  Unhappy, Mr L complained to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint. He was satisfied that CIGNA was entitled to 
make a commercial decision to withdraw from the personal accident insurance  market and 
that it wasnt obliged  to continue offering cover to Mr L. Mr L disagreed. So his complaint has 
been passed to me to consider everything afresh  and make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it because 
I dont think CIGNA has done  anything wrong  here. Ill explain why. 
The policy was renewable annually and the terms of the policy say CIGNA will provide cover 
for 12 months. There is no promise that the policy will continue to renew indefinitely.  CIGNA 
decided to withdraw from the personal  accident  insurance market and Im satisfied that was 
a commercial decision it was free to make. It was a decision  which affected all its 
policyholders and I dont think it would be reasonable  for me to direct that it must continue  to 
offer cover to Mr L. 
CIGNA wrote to Mr L around eight months  before his policy was due to end. It explained 
what it was going  to do, and Im satisfied this gave Mr L enough time to find cover from an 
alternative insurance provider if he so wished. It also offered advice on how to find an 
alternative provider.  I think that was reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3508342