K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr N was in an accident in which his car was damaged. He claimed on his policy. Mr N was 
unhappy with a number of aspects  of Markerstudys  handling  of the claim including  delays in 
sorting out liability and paying for the repairs to his car. He complained.  Markerstudy 
acknowledged it hadn't always  handled things well and had contributed to delays. So it paid 
him £250 compensation in total.  But otherwise it thought it had dealt with Mr N fairly.
Mr N brought his complaint to us. Amongst  other  things he said that because  of 
Markerstudys delays he could no longer claim for his out of pocket expenses. Our 
adjudicator thought Markerstudy had already done enough to put things right. Mr N didnt 
agree so his complaint's been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ns made  a number  of detailed points. And Ive considered 
everything hes said and all the evidence provided  very carefully, including listening to a 
phone call he had with one of our investigators. But in this decision I will focus on what I see 
as being the key outstanding issues.
Im also aware that Mr N is unhappy with the actions  of the claims management company 
(CMC) which was looking  into his claim for his out of pocket expenses which weren't 
covered by his motor  policy.  But the CMC is a separate  organisation to Markerstudy so I 
dont intend to comment on those complaints within this decision.  
Ive seen that there was an initial delay because Markerstudy didnt think  that Mr N wanted 
to claim for the damage to his car. But it acknowledged that mistake and paid £100 
compensation when it responded to Mr Ns initial complaint.  I think that was a reasonable 
response in the circumstances.
But things didn't run smoothly after that. Mr N and the other driver both blamed each other  
for causing the accident. And in cases like this, where liability  is disputed,  its not unusual  for 
claims to take many  months and in some  cases years  to resolve. Thats  particularly the case 
where liability is disputed  and there  are other  complicating factors like separate claims for 
uninsured losses  such as personal injuries, which I understand was the case  here. 
Mr N is unhappy that Markerstudy wasn't  proactive in contacting the other drivers insurer  to 
sort the liability issue out. Initially Markerstudy did contact the other drivers insurer  regularly. 
But there were certainly periods where Markerstudy did very little to progress the liability 
dispute. So I can understand  why Mr N thought it should be doing more. But Markerstudys 
acknowledged its contributed to delays  and its paid Mr N compensation to address that. 
And I think that reasonable in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN36105282Im aware that Mr N believes that, because of Markerstudys delays, he lost the opportunity  
to claim for his out of pocket expenses. And hes provided a letter from the CMC  which says 
The reason why [the CMC] could not deal with your loss of earnings  claim is 
because your insurance company delayed the claim to [a] point where  we would not 
be able to mitigate your losses. 
But its notable that the CMCs letter  doesn't explain what delay it thinks Markerstudy caused 
or why that would prevent  it from pursuing  Mr Ns claim. But I think its unlikely that any delay 
in sorting out the liability dispute  should  have prevented Mr N from claiming  for his 
expenses. Thats because, as Ive said above,  it's not uncommon  for liability disputes  to take 
considerable periods and often years  to resolve. But those cases often involve claims for 
uninsured losses  which proceed despite those delays.
Mr N might wish to seek further  clarification form the CMC as to why it didn't pursue his 
losses. But I can't see how any delays by Markerstudy  have prevented the CMC from 
mitigating Mr Ns losses. Mr Ns told us that he's out of pocket for things such as extra 
expenses because he didn't have use of his car. But as I understand it to successfully claim 
for such expenses Mr N would be required to show that he did all that he could to reduce  the 
costs of such a claim (otherwise known as mitigating  losses). And that would  include  taking  
action to have  his car put back on the road with the minimum of delay, so that he wasn't 
paying any extra costs  for longer than is absolutely necessary.  But Im aware  that Mr Ns car 
took many  months  to repair. But I dont think thats  because of anything Markerstudy got 
wrong.
After Mr N told Markerstudy he wanted it to arrange  repairs, it referred the matter to one of 
its approved repairers  that day. The repairer initially provided an estimate of roughly £3,800. 
But that estimate was given to Mr N directly and didnt include the discounts and preferential  
rates it would offer to Markerstudy. But it provided an amended estimate for around £1,329 
two days later. 
Mr N wasn't happy for Markerstudys approved repairer to carry out the work. And hes 
explained that he had doubts that it could adequately match the existing paint on the car. So 
he chose to seek another garage to do the repairs. That was Mr Ns choice. But if hed 
allowed the approved repairer to do the work  that could  have  begun  without significant delay. 
And Mr N would have had a courtesy car from the repairer while  his car was being repaired.  
So he wouldnt have been incurring  any extra travel expenses.
But Mr N didnt want the approved repairer  to do the work. So he provided  an estimate from 
another garage. But that was considerably higher  than the approved  repairers estimate as it 
was around £2,220. Markerstudy said that would have made Mr Ns car uneconomical to 
repair, and it would  have  considered the car a total loss. I know  that Mr N disputed the 
valuation that Markerstudy put on his car, but Markerstudy based the valuation  on the 
relevant industry  trade guides, which  I think is fair. 
Mr N wasnt happy as he wanted to keep his car but didn't want  it to have a total loss marker  
put against it, which is what would have happened if Markerstudy had paid Mr N a total loss 
settlement. So Markerstudy  offered to pay Mr N a cash in lieu settlement (CIL) so that he 
could sort the repairs himself. Mr Ns disputed  that Markerstudy ever actually made that offer 
but I've listened to two phone calls with Mr N in which Markerstudys  engineer discussed the 
CIL settlement with Mr N. And Markerstudy first made the CIL offer around two weeks after 
Mr N told it he wanted to claim for the damage. And I think that was a reasonable timeframe  
Ref: DRN36105283to make such an offer. During the second call, which took place roughly a fortnight later, 
Markerstudys engineer  again offered to sort out a CIL settlement of £1,500 immediately. But 
Mr N said he didn't  want to accept it until after hed sorted out the repairs  himself. So Im 
satisfied that Markerstudy did make  a CIL offer in a reasonable timeframe  but that Mr N 
didn't want  to go ahead with that. 
In a later call Mr N said he didn't want to accept  a CIL settlement  until liability  had been  
sorted out. That was Mr Ns decision alone.  He could  have  accepted the CIL when 
Markerstudy offered  it, or at any point  after that, and begun the work on his car then. He 
didnt do so for some months. But that was his decision. So I dont think that any delay in 
arranging repairs or sorting out the CIL was because of anything Markerstudy did or didnt 
do. 
As I've said above the CMC hasn't explained why it felt Markerstudys  delays prevented 
Mr N from claiming  for his uninsured losses. But if the CMCs reasoning was because  of 
avoidable delays  in sorting out repairs I dont think the delay was because  of Markerstudy.
Also, I think its worth  noting  that Markerstudy had a repair estimate for around £1,329, so it 
could have fairly settled  the claim for that amount. But its engineer told Mr N it would base its 
settlement on repair costs of £1,500 as that allowed for undiscovered work required not 
included in the estimate. But as I've said above  Mr N said he didn't want to accept that. He 
said he would submit  the actual costs once hed done the work. When  Markerstudy  chased  
him for these Mr N said he hadn't had the work done. At that point Markerstudy said that it 
would increase the total amount payable to £1,600 if Mr N could  show receipts for that 
amount. But that it would pay him £1,280 straight  away, which  it did. At later dates 
Markerstudy made further payments of £133 and £506.20  for repairs  to Mr N. This brings the 
total it paid to him to £1,919.20. Considerably  more  than the repair costs of £1,329  it could 
have settled the claim for and 20% more than the £1,600 absolute maximum it said it would 
pay. Its not clear  to me why Markerstudy  paid these  sums, and this might have been a 
mistake on its behalf. But it means  that Mr N has benefited by at least  £319 above  the 
amount that Markerstudy said was the maximum it would pay to him.
Mr N is unhappy that Markerstudy delayed in providing an engineering  report  to the CMC. 
But I've seen that it did send the approved repairers estimate, on which it had originally 
based its CIL offer to the CMC fairly  promptly. I've seen that the CMC had to provide a 
couple of different email addresses  before it received  that. It seems that the CMC wasn't  
happy with the repair estimate.  I can only speculate why that was but its likely that it was 
because it was only an estimate and not the actual costs paid to repair the car. But given 
that Markerstudy settled  the claim on a CIL basis, Markerstudy  wouldnt  have  had the full 
costs the CMC were  looking  for as it didn't arrange the repairs.
Mr N also complained that Markerstudy told the CMC that his car was roadworthy. I note that 
when Mr N first reported the accident  to Markerstudy he told it that his car was driveable.  
Also, Markerstudys approved repairer  described the car as roadworthy when it provided  its 
repair estimate. Mr Ns said that he has other  reports which show that his car wasnt 
roadworthy. I have  no reason  to doubt  that although I haven't seen them and theres  no such  
report on Markerstudys file. But Markerstudy  simply answered  the CMCs question  about 
the roadworthiness of Mr Ns car with the evidence  that it had. And given  that the approved 
repairer was acting as Markerstudys agent  I wouldnt  have expected it to ask one of its in-
house engineers to make their own assessment of whether or not that was accurate as 
essentially its approved  repairer had made  that assessment for it.
Ref: DRN36105284Mr Ns referred  to a conversation with Markerstudy which he says shows that it knew that his 
car wasn't  roadworthy.  But that was in an early call when it was Mr N who said the car wasn't 
safe to drive.  But at that time Mr N didn't want to claim for the repairs to his car until the 
other driver had admitted  liability.  So an engineer hadn't assessed  his car at that point. And 
theres no evidence  of any discussion about the extent of the damage to his car, nor is there 
any evidence the call handler was qualified to decide whether  the car was roadworthy or not. 
So I don't think  that Markerstudy knew that his car was unroadworthy earlier.  And when its 
approved repairer  assessed the car they said it was roadworthy. So I don't think  Markerstudy  
did anything wrong  in advising the CMC  that its repairer had said that the car was 
roadworthy. 
It follows that while there were clearly  areas  where  Markerstudys handling of the claim could 
have been better I think its already done  enough  to put things  right. As well as paying Mr N 
£250 in compensation its also paid him roughly  20% more than it said it would for the 
repairs to his car. So Im not going to instruct it to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3610528