K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Quickly Finance  Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim, is chasing him 
for fees for work he says it didnt do.
background
In September  2018, Quickly sent Mr W an invoice for just over £40. This was for the fee due 
following the successful  PPI claim it said it made on his behalf. In June 2018, Mr W said hed 
informed Quickly that hed not accepted  the banks PPI offer and had taken  his claim to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  (FOS). He also said hed told them that he hadnt received 
any payment from his bank.
Quickly told Mr W that it would  still be charging  its fee because  it had made  the original 
complaint to the bank in March 2018. In July 2018 Mr W told Quickly that he had lodged  his 
complaint with FOS before Quickly became involved. In the same  email he said he would  
pay the fee to Quickly  when he received the PPI refund  from his bank.
From September 2018 Mr W told Quickly  that he wouldnt pay its fee because  FOS had 
been involved before  it submitted the claim.  He said FOS had been involved since  2016 and 
it had negotiated the payment, not Quickly.
Quickly continued  to demand payment.  Mr W was unhappy so brought his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint. She said that Mr W had asked 
Quickly to act on his behalf  so it was reasonable for them to charge the fee. Mr W disagreed  
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr W said it was FOS that did the work  that led to the PPI refund. But this wasnt the case. 
In August  2018  a FOS adjudicator told Mr W:
As I explained in my letter dated 13 August 2018,  Im not able to look into whether  or 
not your PPI policy was mis-sold. This is because xxxx bank looked into the mis-
selling of your PPI in August 2012,  and in their letter  they explained  you could ask us 
to look into the mis-selling but would have  to do so within six months. It has now 
been considerably longer than six months.  So we cant now look at whether or not 
the PPI was mis-sold.
But what  we have looked into is whether xxxx bank is refunding the correct  amount of 
commission/profit share you were  charged as part of the PPI policy. And as I 
explained in my letter, and when we spoke on 17 August 2018, I believe the offer 
theyre making is in line with the new rules set out by the Financial Conduct  
Authority.
This confirms that it wasnt FOS that generated the PPI refund. So I now need to consider 
whether or not it was work done by Quickly that generated the refund.
Ref: DRN38673452Mr W has provided a copy of a letter he received  from his bank in April 2018 regarding his 
PPI policy. The letter starts with:
Fast Track reclaim  recently contacted us about the PPI added...
The letter confirms that Quickly, under its trading name of Fast Track Reclaim, contacted the 
bank. The letter also confirmed that a refund was due. This refund was for undisclosed  
commission. Its important to note that this payment  was not for PPI payments,  as this claim 
had already been rejected  in 2012.
I can see that in February 2018, Mr W signed  a Letter of Authority (LoA) authorising Quickly 
to make a PPI claim on his behalf.  I know that Mr W had asked another CMC to make  the 
PPI claim that was rejected in 2012. But Im satisfied that by signing  the LoA in February 
2018, Mr W was authorising Quickly to make the claim for undisclosed commissions. And as 
the letter from his bank confirms that it had been contacted  by Quickly, Im satisfied that it 
was the claim it submitted  that led to the refund of PPI commission.
Mr W said he told Quickly  that he didnt want it to act  he said he told them to stand down.  
But that didnt  happen until September 2018, after the PPI refund had been made, and after 
the invoice had been issued. And as our investigator  said,  this was after the cancellation 
period.
I think its reasonable for Quickly to pursue Mr W for its fee. Ive explained above why FOS 
didnt do the work that led to the refund,  and its clear to me that Mr W asked Quickly  to 
make a claim on his behalf. It did so, and this led to a successful pay out. And he has asked 
FOS to look at elements  of that pay out that he is unhappy with. But that doesnt  impact on 
this decision.
I also agree  with our investigator that its not reasonable for Quickly  to raise the fee for a 
claim for another lender  it wrote off more  than a year earlier.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3867345