K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the service that hes received from Barclays  Bank UK PLC.
background
Mr L used the debit card on his Barclays account  to pay £905  for a TV in October  2018. He 
didnt receive the TV so complained to the retailer and to Barclays in November 2018. 
Barclays temporarily credited £905  to his account  and Mr L transferred  that amount to his 
savings account  the following day. But he also received  a refund of £905 from the retailer   
so he asked Barclays to remove the temporary  credit. But there  wasnt  enough money  in his 
account for it to do so. It removed the credit  later that month  which caused Mr Ls account to 
become overdrawn  and that led to his payments being returned  unpaid and unpaid 
transaction fees. He complained to Barclays. It apologised for the length of time that it had 
taken for the funds  to be removed and it offered to pay £150  compensation to Mr L. He didnt 
accept its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
£905 was Barclays  money so it was reasonable to expect Mr L to pay it back.  And she said 
that the £150 compensation  that it had offered to Mr L was fair as it reflected that it shouldve  
removed the credit earlier. And Barclays had said that the account is in collections, theres 
no court  action ongoing and it doesnt plan to take any court action  and the investigator 
said that she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  He says,  in summary, 
that:
hes had six collection letters from Barclays threatening court action;
the charges  that hes incurred add up to more than the compensation being offered;
Barclays failed to take the money back three times;
he asked Barclays for a payment plan and for the compensation to be added  but he 
was hung-up on the phone  and he says that he was told that it was going to 
continue to send  letters  to him  which is harassment;
he didnt get any notice from Barclays when it was going  to take the money; and
hes spent hours  each week on the phone  with Barclays which is a huge 
inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr L for the significant  difficulties that these events have caused him. But 
when he contacted Barclays in November 2018 about the TV that hed paid for but not 
received, it temporarily  credited the £905 to Mr Ls account. I consider  that to have been fair 
and reasonable.
Mr L transferred that credit to his savings account the following day  but he also received  a 
refund from the retailer. So he asked Barclays to remove the temporary credit. But there 
wasnt enough money in his account for it to remove the £905 so it didnt do so. I consider 
that to have been fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN35755662Mr L says that he asked it three times  to remove the credit. Barclays  removed the credit later 
that month  which caused Mr Ls account  to become overdrawn. He says that it didnt tell him 
that it was removing the credit. But the money  belonged  to Barclays  and I consider that it 
was entitled to remove the money. It initially delayed removing the credit because there 
wasnt enough money in Mr Ls account  as a result  of him transferring the credit to his 
savings account.  But after it had been  contacted by him three  times it removed the money 
from his account. Although it wouldve  been  helpful for Barclays to have told Mr L that it had 
removed the credit, Im not persuaded that it acted incorrectly in removing the credit when it 
did. But Barclays apologised for the length  of time that it had taken to remove the money and 
it offered to pay Mr L £150 compensation. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances.
Mr L had received a refund of the £905 that hed paid for the TV from the retailer.  And 
Barclays had temporarily credited  £905  to Mr Ls account which he transferred to his savings 
account. So when  Barclays removed the temporary  credit from Mr Ls account he still had (or 
had received the benefit of) the £905 that hed transferred to his savings  account.
Mr L has since incurred bank charges  but Im not persuaded  that Barclays is responsible  
for those  charges.  If Mr Ls account  continues to be overdrawn I suggest that he contacts 
Barclays to try to arrange a repayment plan that takes account  of his income and 
expenditure. And Barclays is required to respond to any financial difficulties that Mr L is 
experiencing positively and sympathetically. But Im not persuaded that theres enough  
evidence to show that it has treated Mr L rudely  or that it has harassed him.
I find that Barclays should pay to Mr L the £150 compensation that its already offered to 
him. But Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require it to pay any other compensation to Mr L  or to take any other action  in response 
to his complaint.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should  pay to Mr L the £150 
compensation that it has offered to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3575566