K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  declined his gadget insurance policy claim. My 
references to Amtrust  include its agents.
background 
Mr As camera and camera  lens were  damaged when he was involved in an attempted 
rescue. He claimed  on his gadget  insurance  policy, insured by Amtrust.
Amtrust declined the claim. It said the items Mr A claimed for didnt meet  the gadget  criteria  
under the policy  - the gadget had to be purchased new or refurbished from a UK VAT 
registered (or the equivalent tax if purchased  overseas) company and supplied with a proof  
of purchase. Amtrust said it had received a document from the company that sold the items 
to Mr A that purported to show VAT paid but it said the company wasnt  a UK registered  
company and not VAT registered. Amtrust  said it wasnt  able to verify the company as being 
registered in the Hong  Kong as there  was no company  registration  details supplied.
Amtrust also said the policy required the proof of purchase to have a serial  number for the 
items claimed, and there was none on Mr As proof of purchase. Amtrust refunded all the 
policy premiums to Mr A as it said the camera and lens would  never have been covered by 
the policy as they didnt  meet the gadget criteria.
Mr A complained to us. He said: the policy requirements Amtrust relied  on werent clear 
when he bought the policy;  hed bought  on-line  from a business lots of people use; he wasnt 
aware of any on-line retailers who gave a proof of purchase letter including  the serial 
number; hed bought alternative  insurance that didnt  have the same onerous  wording.
During our investigation Amtrust sent the wording Mr A would have seen during the on-line 
sale of the policy.  It said Mr A had to tick a box to confirm hed read and accepted  the policy 
terms before  he bought  the policy. It also said even if it hadnt  declined the claim for not 
meeting the gadget criteria it would have declined under another  policy exclusion.
Our investigator thought Amtrust unfairly declined the claim. He said it should pay the cost of 
the repairs to the camera,  subject to Mr A providing a suitable receipt, less the policy  
premium amount it had already refunded to him.
Amtrust disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint but 
with a different  outcome than suggested  by our investigator.  I said:
The policy says:
Criteria: We can only insure gadget(s) that are:
1. purchased new or refurbished from a UK VAT registered (or the equivalent tax if 
purchased overseas) company and supplied with a proof of purchase.
Thats an unusual, significant and onerous policy requirement and to be able to reasonably  
rely on it Amtrust  must highlight the requirement  to a consumer at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN33886522When Mr A bought the policy  he was given the following information on-line:
Key terms  and conditions
To be entitled to cover  under  this insurance  you confirm the following to be true
You have  proof of purchase for each gadget (original purchase receipt or phone  contract  
showing IMEI No).
So the key facts say to be entitled  to cover  Mr A must have proof of purchase (which  he 
had). Theres no mention  of the unusual, significant  and onerous  criteria about the gadget  
having to be bought from a UK VAT registered (or the equivalent tax if purchased  overseas) 
company.
Amtrust says that later in the sales process theres  a link to its insurance product information 
document (IPID). That document says if Mr A makes  a claim he needs to include:
Proof of Purchase  - the purchase receipt  provided at the point of sale that gives  details of 
the gadget(s) purchased (including any accessories),  or similar documents  that provide  proof 
that you own the gadget(s) and enables the age of the gadget(s) to be reasonably identified. 
The receipt should include confirmation of the IMEI or serial number of the gadget(s)  (where 
possible) and detail  the UK VAT registration number of the company (or the equivalent tax if 
purchased overseas)
I accept the IPID gives more information, but it still isnt sufficiently clear that its a 
fundamental criteria  for cover that the gadget had to be bought from a UK VAT registered (or 
the equivalent tax if purchased overseas) company.
As part of the policy sale process Mr A did have to tick to confirm  hed read the policy 
documents. The policy document does detail the relevant criteria, but only at page 8 of a 
20 page document.
Im satisfied Amtrust  hasnt  sufficiently  highlighted the unusual,  significant and onerous 
gadget criteria its relied on to decline the claim.  I think the lack of clarity  disadvantaged  
Mr A. If the criteria  had been clearly  highlighted I think its more likely than not that Mr A 
wouldnt have bought the policy. He would have bought an alternative policy without the 
criteria, as he now has.
Amtrust didnt fairly rely on the gadget  criteria to decline Mr As claim.
Amtrust says if it hadnt relied on the gadget criteria it would  have declined  the claim on the 
following policy exclusion:
Where you knowingly leave your gadget  somewhere where you cant see it but others  can 
and it is at risk of being damaged.
Mr A told Amtrust in his claim form that he ran up the footpath to get a phone  signal and 
while on the phone to the rescue service a gust of wind blew his tripod/camera over, 
damaging the lens and camera.  From  the claim form information theres no evidence  Mr A 
left the camera where he couldnt see it. Hes told us his camera  was in his sight  at all times 
and he saw it fall, but he needed to walk away from the camera  to get a phone signal. 
Ref: DRN33886523I accept what Mr A has said. Amtrust  couldnt  reasonably rely on that exclusion to decline his 
claim.
The fair and reasonable outcome is for Amtrust to accept the claim. Our investigator  said 
Amtrust had to pay for the repair subject to Mr A providing a suitable receipt, less the 
premium amount it had already refunded to him. I think there should be a different outcome.
The policy says for accidental damage  Amtrust will repair or replace your gadget if it is 
damaged as the result of accidental damage, providing the gadget is returned to us.
Mr As already told Amtrust that he had to buy a replacement lens and sent the broken one 
to the manufacturer. I think it would be reasonable for Amtrust to pay the replacement  cost.
Ive seen the receipt Mr A sent with his claim. It details the items he bought, the date and 
cost. It doesnt give the serial numbers for the items, which Amtrust said it requires under the 
policy. But the policy actually says the receipt should include confirmation  of the serial 
number of the gadget(s) (where possible) . So I dont think  Amtrust can reasonably say the 
lack of serial number means  Mr As receipt isnt sufficient proof of purchase.  I think  he has 
already provided  a suitable receipt.
I dont think its fair for Amtrust to deduct  the whole  amount of the premium  it refunded  from 
any claim payment. I understand Mr A paid the policy  as a one off payment.  Amtrust  can 
deduct the refund of the premium from the start of the policy to the date the policy  was 
cancelled. In that way Mr A pays the premium for the time he was covered by the policy.
After cancellation  Mr A bought other  insurance  to cover his camera. So its not fair for the 
refund to be deducted for that period of time as in effect that would mean Mr A would pay the 
cost of the two policies.
responses to my provisional  decision
Amtrust accepted, and Mr A had no comment on, my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Amtrust  accepted, and Mr A had no comment on, my provisional decision I have no 
reason to change  my mind. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I uphold the 
complaint. Amtrust must accept Mr As claim.  From  any claim payment Amtrust makes it can 
deduct the amount of the policy  premium it refunded to Mr A from the start of the policy  to 
the cancellation of the policy, as its now agreed. If any claim payment is made Amtrust must 
add interest as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN33886524I require Amtrust Europe Limited to accept Mr As claim. From any claim payment Amtrust 
Europe Limited makes  it can deduct the amount of the policy premium  it refunded  to Mr A 
from the start of the policy to the cancellation  of the policy, as its now agreed.
If any claim payment is made Amtrust  Europe  Limited must  add interest* at 8% simple a 
year from the date of claim  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Amtrust  Europe Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Ref: DRN3388652