K820x#14complaint
Mrs P doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation offer its made to reduce her credit card debt, from 
which she was discharged when her protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 11October 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought it
was fair for RBS to use Mrs Ps PPI compensation to reduce  the amount she owed and 
didnt repay  when her trust deed  came  to an end.
Neither Mrs P nor RBS had anything to add to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence they wished to provide following my
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my mind  about the conclusions I reached in
it. I still think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the amount Mrs P owed
and didnt repay when her trust deed came to an end.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think Its fair for
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mrs Ps compensation for the mis-sold  PPI to reduce
the amount she owed  and didnt repay when her trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34645132copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation  offer its made to reduce her credit card debt, from which she was 
discharged when her protected trust deed came to an end.
background
RBS sold Mrs P a PPI policy in 2004  to protect the repayments on a credit card shed taken  out. 
Mrs P complained to RBS that the policy  had been mis-sold to her. RBS upheld  her complaint. It 
offered to refund  the PPI premiums and the extra interest and charges paid as a result of this mis-
sale, together with simple interest to compensate her for the time shed been  out of pocket. The total 
amount offered was £2,327.78.
However, in 2008, Mrs P had granted a trust deed - which  became a protected trust deed - for her 
creditors. This is an alternative in Scotland to bankruptcy (called sequestration there). It is a legally-
binding agreement between a consumer  and their creditors, which  is administered by a trustee.
When the protected trust deed started,  RBS says Mrs P had an agreed debt on her credit card of 
£6741.48. It says it received  dividends totalling £1,812.49 by the time the trust deed ended in 2015. 
And it says a refund  of interest  of £4.69 was also made. This meant that the amount  of £4,924.30 was 
left unrecovered then.
RBS says that, following  acceptance by Mrs P of its PPI mis-sale compensation  offer, it used this in 
partial payment of the outstanding  amount it hadnt fully recovered when Mrs Ps protected trust deed 
ended in 2015. But Mrs P doesnt think that the compensation  shes been offered for the mis-sale of 
her credit card PPI should be used  in this way. She thinks that, as her protected trust deed has now 
ended, she doesnt still owe any money to RBS. And so she thinks the PPI compensation should be 
paid directly to her.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Mrs Ps complaint  should be upheld.  She thought that it was fair in 
these circumstances  for RBS to use the compensation offer partially to offset  the credit card debt to it 
which was still unpaid when the protected trust deed was ended. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Im required  by DISP 3.6.4 R of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN34645133As RBS has upheld Mrs Ps PPI mis-sale complaint,  in this provisional  decision Ive just looked at 
whether what  its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So what  I need to decide  is whether  
its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mrs Ps PPI compensation offers  to reduce  the much higher 
amount of debt which she wasnt required  to repay to it after her protected trust deed was closed.
And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scots law. In recent years thereve been 
a number of cases looking  at what happens  to PPI compensation after a trust deed has come to an 
end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
Mrs Ps complaint.  And I simply dont think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mrs Ps PPI 
compensation directly  to her when  she borrowed  a great deal more money  from RBS which wont 
ever now be repaid. The fact that Mrs Ps protected trust deed had come  to an end before this offer of 
PPI compensation was made doesnt, in my opinion, make a difference  to what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  here. I dont  think  anyone  would  think it fair to require  RBS to repay the PPI 
compensation directly  to Mrs P when  she doesnt now need to pay back  to RBS a much bigger 
amount which  she borrowed. As her PPI premiums were charged directly to her credit card account, 
to do so would, in effect, mean that RBS was paying her back money  that it had never  actually  
received from her in the first place.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair that RBS used the PPI compensation  it offered  to 
Mrs P to reduce the outstanding debt on her credit card,  which wont now ever be repaid to RBS 
following the closure  of her protected trust deed.
Finally, Ive considered  whether Mrs Ps complaint should be dismissed by this service  without 
considering its merits. This is on the basis that the PPI compensation  offer RBS made to her was on 
the basis  of a full and final settlement. And it appears that Mrs P signed  to accept  this offer in June 
2018.
But I think that its most likely that Mrs Ps acceptance of this offer would have been on the basis that 
she thought she was entitled  to have this compensation paid directly to her, because  her former debt 
had been extinguished when the trust deed was completed.  Given the uncertainty about  the legal 
position regarding  pre-existing debts after a trust deed  had ended, I dont think RBSs offers  made its 
position sufficiently clear. And so I dont think it would be appropriate to dismiss  the case on that 
basis.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont currently think that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld.  Im minded  
to decide that it was fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mrs Ps compensation for the PPI 
Ref: DRN34645134policy it mis-sold to her to reduce the amount she owed  and didnt repay  when her trust deed came to 
an end. So based on what Ive seen so far I dont  plan to make a further award.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3464513