K820x#14complaint
Mr M and the estate of the late Mrs M have complained  that Nationwide  Building Society 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and the late Mrs M took out the PPI in December 1992, two years after they had 
arranged the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide doesnt  have any paperwork from the sale,  which isnt surprising considering 
how long ago it took place. However  this does make  the complaint more difficult  to consider. 
In reaching my decision I have looked  at the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the sale was 
and how this might have affected Mr Ms recollection of events.
Although Nationwide hasnt been able to find any paperwork  from 1992,  it has found  a copy 
of the original mortgage application from 1990.  This shows that the couple  selected PPI at 
that time and that they requested it to just cover Mr M for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. However, for some reason the policy  wasnt set up then.
No-one knows what  the sales  process was in 1992 when the PPI was taken out. Mr M says 
that he has no specific recollection of it and appreciates that he may have opted for it. As the 
PPI was taken out some  two years after the mortgage had already been running, I think  that 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  been aware  that they didnt have to have it as a condition of the 
mortgage. Overall, looking at the available evidence, I consider that Mr and Mrs M probably  
decided to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to. Therefore it seems  to me that 
they must  have had an interest in protecting  their mortgage repayments.
Nationwide says this was a non-advised sale. As we dont know  what the sales process was, 
its not possible to know whether it was an advised sale or not. But actually it doesnt make a 
difference to my decision.  If it was an advised sale, it means  that Nationwide, in 
recommending the policy  to Mr and Mrs M, needed to ensure that it met their needs. And 
from what I know of their circumstances  at the time,  the PPI was suitable  for them.
The mortgage application from 1990 shows that Mr M was by far the main  wage  earner. He 
has confirmed that they were still in the same  jobs in 1992. So it seems  reasonable that the 
policy was set up just to cover Mr M. Mr M recalls that he would have received some sick 
pay from his job. But the policy  would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than he would have received full pay for. Mr M says he would have sold his car that 
Ref: DRN33786472was worth about £1,000. Thats not really  a realistic alternative to having mortgage 
repayments cover. Having  the PPI would  have meant that he wouldnt have  to take such  
drastic action and could have kept the car for his use. Mr M has said that Mrs M would have 
helped as she was earning. But as Ive said, her salary was a lot less than Mr Ms, and other 
people cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances can change.
It seems  to me that Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted from it 
at what would have  been a difficult time. And indeed Mr M did make two successful claims 
on the policy in 1993 and 2011.
Nationwide needed  to provide enough  information  about the policy  for Mr and Mrs M to be 
able to make  an informed decision about  whether or not it was right for them. Its possible 
that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it could have about  the policy, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected  by any of those 
things. As I think Mr and Mrs M had an interest  in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  them to change  their minds.
This means  that Nationwide doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and 
the estate of the late Ms M. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
M and the estate of the late Ms M because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and the estate  of the late Ms M.
But Nationwide Building Socieity does have  to pay back to Mr M and the estate of the late 
Ms M any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and the 
estate of the late Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3378647