K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Motability  Operations  Limited  (MO) repaid less than she thought  had 
been agreed in relation to the early return of her car.
background
In September  2016 Ms S entered into a hire agreement with MO for a car. She encountered 
a number of problems with the car and contacted  MO on several  occasions.  The adjudicator 
has set out the timeline of events in her view letter and I wont rehearse the detail here. Ms S 
has supplied  various reports from the RAC which dealt  with a number of callouts between  
July 2018 and December 2018.  The car was also repaired  by two different dealers, but we 
dont have details  of those repairs.
MO agreed to end Ms Ss agreement early and waive  the usual £250 administration  fee. It 
also offered to refund a pro rata sum of the advanced payment made by Ms S. Initially Ms S 
accepted this offer, but later she said she hadnt  appreciated  the refund of the advance  
payment would be pro rated. 
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommend it be upheld  in 
part. She thought  that in addition to the offer made by MO it should pay Ms S compensation 
of £250. She said that Ms S whose child is disabled had felt she couldnt rely on the car and 
when she had been gave a courtesy  car it wasnt suitable. 
MO didnt agree and disputed the adjudicators reference to the Consumer Rights  Act. It also 
said the final RAC report didnt identify any faults.  It also suggested that the manufacturer 
recalls which  the adjudicator had mentioned in her view letter  were not the responsibility of 
MO. It added  that it had no contractual responsibility to provide a replacement car. It had 
done so as a matter  of goodwill and the hire company was responsible  for the choice of car 
supplied. Finally, it noted that Ms S had benefitted  from the early termination  of four previous 
contracts and had been paid some £5,400 to which she had no contractual entitlement.
The adjudicator responded to the points raised by MO and the case was referred  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire agreement,  in this case is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MO is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN37061412The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
We do not have  the job sheets from the dealers which have repaired  the car and we dont 
have an independent report. Therefore I have to rely on the testimony  of Ms S and the 
various RAC  reports. I can see that those reports support the details  of events Ms S supplied 
previously. There have been a number of issues and after a period of time she lost trust in 
the car. I consider that is particularly important as Ms Ss child is disabled  and she needs 
access to a suitable and reliable car.
I appreciate that the final RAC  report didnt  identify any problems  at that point,  but I have to 
take into account all the evidence and just that one report. I also recognise that MO offered 
to accept early termination and to waive the usual administration fee as well as refunding a 
pro rata element of the advance payment. I have taken on board the previous contracts  Ms 
S has had with MO. I can see that it has been  supportive of her in the past. That said this 
decision concerns  the most recent agreement.
I note that MO isnt obliged to provide a hire car when Ms Ss car was in for repair.  My role is 
to consider what is fair and reasonable and where  a complaint of this nature is upheld this 
service would look to recompense the consumer  for the periods they were without a car. In 
this case the car supplied  wasnt suitable for Ms S and her childs needs. I would have 
expected MO to have  endeavoured to see if the hire company could provide a suitable car.
In summary  Ms S went for a period of time with car that wasnt  wholly reliable  and as such  I 
believe she is entitled to a small amount of compensation. MO has terminated  the 
agreement and refunded the pro rata advance payment and there is no further action it need 
take in that regard. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Motability Operations  Limited to:
Pay Ms S £250 for any trouble and upset caused  as a direct  result of the issues shes  
had with her car and, if applicable,  remove any adverse information from her credit 
file.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3706141