K821x#15complaint
Mrs S and Mrs S complain about  a boiler  that was supplied to them  under a conditional  sale 
agreement with A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG).
background
Mrs S and Mrs S entered into a regulated conditional sale agreement with ASG on 24 May 
2016 for the supply and installation of a domestic boiler. At the same  time Mrs S and Mrs S 
entered into a separate boiler maintenance and service agreement with ASG  for annual 
services and a 365 day repair call out service.  
In October  2017 Mrs S and Mrs S experienced issues  with intermittent hot water  and had to 
call ASG out to fix it. ASG sent a manufacturer engineer who discovered the plate  heat 
exchanger in the boiler was blocked. This was replaced at no cost to Mrs S and Mrs S.
In March 2018 Mrs S and Mrs S experienced the same  problems  again  and a similar fix was 
required  again  at no cost to them. The engineer that attended  also noted a reverse 
polarity issue with the boilers electronics.
Mrs S and Mrs S complained to ASG after this that the boiler hadnt been installed to the 
appropriate standard. ASG responded to Mrs S and Mrs S to say the problems they had 
experienced were  caused by a build-up  of debris  in the boiler  which had come from their 
heating system. It said this was not a fault with the boiler.  So, it said the repairs were not 
covered under the service  and maintenance agreement  or the manufacturers  warranty  
and were only not charged  as a gesture of goodwill. 
ASG also said it wasnt responsible for the installation as this was carried out by a separate  
company but in any event a flush carried out on Mrs S and Mrs Ss heating system on 
installation was only guaranteed for a year.  It said Mrs S and Mrs S would need to pay for 
someone to carry out a power flush of their heating system if they wanted to stop the 
problem from re-occurring. 
The same thing happened again  in May 2018. Mrs S and Mrs S said they continued to 
experience issues  with their hot water until they engaged a third party engineer  to fix the 
boiler in August 2018 at a cost of £359.89.
Our investigator thought Mrs S and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld.  She said she didnt  
think ASG had carried out the installation  of the boiler with reasonable care and skill and this 
resulted in the problems that Mrs S and Mrs S had to pay to have fixed. She recommended 
that ASG pay Mrs S and Mrs S the cost of fixing their boiler in August  2018 and pay for the 
cost of a power  flush on their heating system. 
ASG did not agree with the investigator. It said, in summary:
It was unfair to say a power flush should  have been completed on installation instead 
of a chemical flush without knowledge  of plumbing and flushing.
There is no evidence Mrs S and Mrs S maintained their heating system in 
accordance with the requirement in their agreement saying they must do this.
ASG also copied  an extract from a trade  association  website explaining  that not even power  
flushing a heating system  is guaranteed to remove all debris  from it.
Ref: DRN34419732As no agreement was reached  the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S and Mrs S have said the problems they experienced  so soon after installation show  
that ASG didnt install their boiler  to the appropriate  standard. ASG says the installation  was 
completed to the manufacturers standards.
ASG has also previously  said it isnt responsible  for the installation of the boiler because 
another company carried it out. But the conditional sale agreement  was between  ASG and 
Mrs S and Mrs S. And within  the agreement it very clearly states that ASG will supply AND 
install the boiler. It doesnt matter if another company actually carried  out the installation 
because ASG had a contract  with Mrs S and Mrs S to install  the boiler. So ASG  was 
responsible for the installation. 
There was an express  term in the conditional sale agreement that the installation  will be 
carried out in a professional manner with best working practices followed. 
I must also take account of relevant legislation when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in 
this complaint. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term in the agreement that 
any service provided would be carried out with reasonable care and skill. The installation of 
a boiler is a service.
I find both the express and implied  terms to mean broadly similar  things. So Ive considered 
whether ASG met those standards when deciding whats fair in this case.  If I find it didnt, 
Ill also consider whether  Mrs S and Mrs S have lost out as a result.  
But first Ive thought  about the cause  of the problems Mrs S and Mrs S had with their boiler. 
Ive studied the breakdown reports carried out by the manufacturer  in October  2017  and 
March 2018 and the one completed by the engineer that attended Mrs S and Mrs Ss 
property in August  2018. All three reports refer to a blocked plate heat exchanger. But none  
of the reports give a reason for the blockage. 
ASG has said that it is extremely likely  the blockage was caused  by debris from Mrs S and 
Mrs Ss heating  system. I dont  think this is clear and evidence  shows there are other 
reasons a heat exchanger can become blocked. But in this particular case, for reasons Ill 
expand on below, it does  seem likely the blockage was caused by debris from Mrs S and 
Mrs Ss heating  system. 
Ive considered whether I think the blockage  was the result of the installation  not being  
carried out with reasonable  care and skill.
A good starting point when deciding what reasonable care and skill looks like in this case  is 
the installation  manual  for the boiler. This says that the propertys heating system must  be 
thoroughly flushed before installation. 
Ref: DRN34419733ASG says it carried out a chemical flush of Mrs S and Mrs Ss heating  system using 
products fully endorsed  and recommended  by the boilers manufacturer.  A chemical  flush  
uses gravity to empty and refill the heating system adding appropriate chemicals to suspend, 
disperse and remove accumulated materials. ASG says this kind of flushing method was 
appropriate for the system it was fitting in Mrs S and Mrs Ss property. It has provided us 
with the Domestic Chemical Water  Treatment Manufacturers Association  code of practice for 
chemical cleaning  and inhibiting of domestic  hot water central  heating  systems which  
explains an installer has a choice of cleaning methodologies available which will meet  the 
requirements of the (relevant) Building  Regulations.
However, Mrs S and Mrs S have said their property has suffered with sludge and debris in 
the heating system before  and this broke  their previous boiler.  Mrs S and Mrs S said they 
acquired a new boiler through  ASG  because they had just lost a boiler and needed one 
quickly, but with limited cash to pay for one outright. They said they told ASG about the 
reason their previous boiler broke  before entering the conditional sale agreement  and were 
told a thorough flush would be completed  to remove this. I find their testimony  in this respect 
to be plausible  and it seems likely to me given the previous issues theyd experienced that 
they would  have made ASG aware  of the reason their previous boiler broke.   
Mrs S and Mrs S have also said that in October 2017 they were  told by the manufacturers 
engineer that their heating system  would need  to be power flushed to stop the heat 
exchanger from becoming blocked again.  This has been backed  up by what ASG has said in 
its correspondence with Mrs S and Mrs S. 
Evidence suggests a power flush is the most thorough method of flushing a heating system. 
Indeed the code of practice  supplied to us by ASG  confirms  a power flush  can improve the 
efficiency and efficacy of a heating system  clean.  
So, weighing things  up, it seems ASG were  aware  that Mrs S and Mrs Ss heating system 
had issues with sludge and debris  previously and may have  needed a more thorough flush.  
And just 15 months  after installation, the manufacturers  own engineer recommended that 
their system needed power flushing  to prevent the problem happening  again. Given  this 
short period  of time, it seems likely to me that Mrs S and Mrs Ss heating  system required a 
more thorough flush at the time of installation. I dont think  Mrs S and Mrs S would 
reasonably have expected to need to flush their heating system  again so soon after one had 
been carried out. 
I recognise (as ASG  has pointed out) that power  flushing is not guaranteed to remove all 
debris from a heating system. But it seems likely from the evidence  that had a more 
thorough flush been  carried out on their particular system, Mrs S and Mrs S would not have 
experienced the problems  they did so soon after installation. Mrs S and Mrs S have  not 
experienced the issues again since their boiler was fixed in August 2018  so the problem 
does not seem to be an ongoing one. This suggests  there was a build-up in the heating  
system that was not properly removed at installation.  
ASG says it has fixed the reverse polarity  issue with the electronics. It hasnt provided  any 
record of this such as a breakdown report or job sheet. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  
the problem wasnt  fixed and correspondence does suggest that an engineer attended Mrs S 
and Mrs Ss property specifically to fix the issue. That being the case  it looks to me that the 
problem was most likely  one that was caused on installation, further evidence that it was not 
carried out to the appropriate standard.  
Ref: DRN34419734So, having  considered everything, I find in this particular case that ASG  didnt complete the 
installation of the boiler with reasonable care and skill  in breach of the implied  term in its 
agreement with Mrs S and Mrs S. 
ASG has said Mrs S and Mrs S are in breach of their obligation in the agreement  to maintain 
their central heating system by allowing debris to pass  in to the boiler. I dont think they were 
 seeing as the problem  happened so soon  after installation and they wouldnt reasonably  
have expected to have  to flush  their heating system again. But even if they were, I dont 
think this outweighs ASGs original obligation  to install the boiler with reasonable care and 
skill.
Mrs S and Mrs S have suffered a loss as result of this as they had to pay an engineer to fix 
the boiler in August 2018 due to a blocked heat exchanger. I recognise this was over two 
years after the boiler was installed. But the problem  first surfaced in October 2017 and Mrs S 
and Mrs S were told then that a power flush would be required to stop it happening  again. 
So, it seems  likely the problem in August 2018  was the same  as the one in October 2017 
seeing as the heating  system had not been power  flushed. I find it fair that ASG  pay Mrs S 
and Mrs S the cost of the repair in August 2018. 
I recognise that Mrs S and Mrs Ss agreements contain provisions that a third party cannot 
carry out work on the boiler. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs S and Mrs S to use 
a third party engineer  given  the issues they were having with ASG. In the circumstances it 
would not be fair for ASG  to penalise Mrs S and Mrs S under either of their agreements 
because of this and it should  ensure this does not happen.
Ive given consideration also to what the law says about what  Mrs S and Mrs S are entitled  
to. The CRA  states  that where  a service has not been performed  with reasonable care and 
skill, a consumer has a right to request repeat performance to the extent necessary to 
complete performance  in conformity with the contract. In this case I think  this would mean 
carrying out a more thorough flush of Mrs S and Mrs Ss heating system   as this is what 
should have happened on installation. 
I think its fair in this case that Mrs S and Mrs S get what  they are entitled  to under the law. 
While they havent  encountered the same problem with the boiler  since it was fixed  in August 
2018, an expert still recommended that the heating system is power flushed in 2017  and this 
hasnt been done since. ASG should  therefore arrange for Mrs S and Mrs Ss heating 
system to be power flushed at no cost to them, should they so wish, at a time that is 
convenient for them. 
It will have been inconvenient for Mrs S and Mrs S to keep calling out an engineer and very 
inconvenient to make do with intermittent hot water  for as long as they did. I find ASG  should 
pay them  compensation of £250  for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mrs S and Mrs Ss 
complaint. To put things right A Shade Greener  (Boilers) LLP must:
Pay Mrs S and Mrs S the £359.89  cost of having  the boiler repaired plus interest  at 
8% simple per year from the date it was paid until the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN34419735Arrange for Mrs S and Mrs Ss heating  system  to be power flushed at no cost to them  
should they wish.  
Pay Mrs S and Mrs S compensation of £250  for distress and inconvenience. 
*If A Shade Greener  (Boilers) LLP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs S and Mrs S how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mrs S and Mrs S a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
** A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP must  pay this compensation within  28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs S and Mrs S accept  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% per year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2020.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3441973