K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs R complain  about the service they received from  Aviva  Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) when its engineers failed to attend to fix a leak in their flat.
References to Aviva  also refer to their agents.
background
Mr B and Mrs R live in a block  of 18 flats. They had a HomeServe home emergency policy  
from Aviva. 
On 19 January 2019 Mr B called Aviva to report a water leak in their flat. He identified this as 
being from the hot water feed valve under his bathroom sink. Aviva said that one if its 
engineers would come on Monday 21st January  in the afternoon. 
Avivas engineer arrived on 21 January and advised  that the leaking valve would have to be 
replaced and the water  supply would need  to be turned off. The cold water stopcock in Mr 
Bs kitchen  couldnt  be used  to do this as it had jammed, so the engineer  said that the water  
supply to the whole block would need  to be turned off by the blocks maintenance  company.  
Mr B told him that on previous occasions engineers working in their flat had used a freezing 
kit to stop the flow of water when valves and pipes were replaced,  thereby avoiding turning 
off the  water  supply  to the whole block. Avivas  engineer didnt have a freezing kit, so he left 
without undertaking  a repair.
The next day Mr B called Aviva again to explain that nothing  had been done to fix his leak.  
Avivas agent explained  that the water  would first need to be stopped. Mr B suggested that a 
freezing kit could be used,  but the agent told him that she wasnt  aware  of any of its 
engineers using that method. Mr B told her he was cancelling his policy  and making a 
complaint. The agent contacted the diary  team, and then told Mr B that a freezing kit would 
need to be ordered. She said she couldnt  say how long this would  take, but shed update  
him.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with this as he wanted the repair  done  that day. He said that although it 
would be possible to get the blocks managing agents to turn off the water supply to the 
whole block, theyd have  to employ  a plumber to do this, which  would cost money.  It would 
also be disruptive  to the whole block. He recommended  that a freezing kit be used.
Mr B says that he spoke  to one of Avivas  agents  who then agreed that a freezing kit could 
be used, and said that another engineer would attend that afternoon between 12.00  and 
18.00 with a freezing kit to complete the repair.  Mr B says that the appointment for an 
engineer to come later that day with a freezing kit was confirmed in two subsequent 
telephone conversations.
Mr B says that at about 16.00 that day, Aviva phoned to say that its engineer  wouldnt be 
coming to freeze the pipe after all. He spoke to Mrs R. Theres  no recording of that 
conversation which  I understand is because it was from the engineers  mobile. But I have 
heard a subsequent conversation between the engineer and an Aviva  agent. In this the 
engineer informed the agent that hed spoken  to the customer (Mrs R) and that she was 
happy for Aviva to hold  tight until shed got building maintenance around to turn off the 
water. If this couldnt  be done before the weekend,  then Aviva might  have to consider the 
use of a freezing  kit. 
Ref: DRN35831892Mr B phoned  Aviva  that evening to discuss the cancellation of the appointment. He 
explained the background, and said that if Aviva had changed its policy,  he shouldve been 
told about it. He was told that someone would get back to him within  two hours.  I haven't 
seen any call record of another call that evening.
Mr B phoned  Aviva  again on 23 January  and raised a complaint. He told it he was cancelling  
his policy  and was going to call in an independent  engineer to do the work. He said hed be 
making a claim under  his policys compensation scheme. He maintains that an undertaking 
had been given to him by Aviva on 22 January that an engineer  would attend with a freezing 
kit to do the repair,  but that this decision had then been reversed. He said that if he hadnt 
relied upon Aviva, the repair couldve been done  by somebody else on 21 January, or at the 
least, by earlier than 16.00 on 22 January.
Mr B chose an engineer  recommended  by the blocks managing agents. The independent 
engineer attended the next day. He froze the pipe and completed the necessary repairs  at a 
cost of £276.00.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Aviva  explained to Mr B in its final response letter that it 
was identified later in the day on 22 January that it doesnt use freeze kits when completing 
the type of repair  Mr B and Mrs R required, but said it would undertake the work  if the blocks  
maintenance department was contacted. It offered Mr B and Mrs R £69 compensation for 
the late cancellation of the arranged appointment on 22 January. 
Mr B and Mrs R want to be reimbursed for the £276.00 they had to pay to their independent 
engineer to undertake the necessary work. 
As Mr B and Mrs R were  dissatisfied with Avivas response to their complaint, they brought  it 
to this service. Our investigator acknowledged that Aviva had given Mr B incorrect  
information and led him to believe  that it would be able to use a freezing kit, and then 
retracted this, but she didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to request that Mr B arrange  
for the mains water supply to the block to be turned off. In the circumstances she considered  
that Avivas offer of £69 compensation was fair and reasonable.
As Mr B and Mrs R werent happy  with our investigators view,  theyve asked that their 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Bs and Mrs 
Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Aviva has told this service that:
The job was cancelled  as it was picked up and reviewed  by the Field Support 
Specialist (FSS) in that area, he cancelled the job as the business does not use freeze 
kits unless the incident  is a complete emergency.
 It went on to say:
The use of freeze kits is not a specific exclusion in the policy  terms and conditions.  
However, they are not a safe way of completing  a repair  as they are prone to fail which  
Ref: DRN35831893would result in flooding a property. As a business, we have to consider the risk with 
using the freeze kits and. In this case,  the leak was on a hot feed pipe. It is not 
recommended to freeze hot water  using the kit due to the high probability of 
convection currently in hot water.[sic]
In lieu of the freeze kit the other option  would be to turn off the external stop valve
(ESV), however, HomeServe would  not use an ESV to isolate the water which  is not 
the sole responsibly of the policy holder or an ESV which is outside of [Mr Bs] flat. In 
this case, the Building Management Company would be the responsible party.
The business was prepared to complete the repair once the water was isolated from 
the property but [Mr B] chose to appoint his own engineer. The contract does  not cover
for cost of any work  that has not been authorised by the business in advance .
Mr B has pointed  out that whilst the leak may have  been on a hot water pipe, that wasnt the 
pipe that needed to be frozen. It was the internal stopcock on the cold water supply into their 
flat that had jammed, and so it was the incoming  cold water  pipe that needed to be frozen so 
the stopcock could be replaced.  
Aviva told our investigator that it doesnt  use freezing kits in blocks  of flats because the 
consequences of damage would much  greater should the kit fail. This would  be regardless of 
whether the pipe to be frozen  was hot or cold.
I sought clarification on this from Aviva and it was confirmed to me that it doesnt use 
freezing kits in blocks of flats unless in an emergency. This corresponds with a 
contemporaneous note in Avivas records of the (unrecorded) telephone conversation that its 
Field Support Specialist  had with Mrs R. The note says he explained to her that: 
We do not freeze pipes  especially  in a block of flats as if the ice was to brake we 
would then flood  the whole of the building out. This could affect  every  property that is 
below our customer and could cause hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of 
damage. [sic]
Mr B argues  that the use of freezing  kits by others  supports  the case that they do not pose a 
risk. He believes  that Avivas change  of mind had other motivation such as it not having an 
engineer trained to use them, or that sourcing one would take them  out of their way. He 
makes the point that his own engineer was able to use a freezing kit quite satisfactorily,  and 
Ive seen the confirmation of this from his engineer.
Ive seen information written by the technical manager  of the company who make  the freeze 
kits that Avivas engineers  use. He says that all pipe freezers  will arrest  and freeze moving 
water if it is a drip or trickle, but it is not safe to state  that moving water can be frozen with 
any standard off-the-shelf freezing products. Freezing of hot water  should not be attempted.
Mr B provided confirmation  from the managing agents of the block that they have no issues 
with the use of freezing kits. They stated:
I confirm  that as managing agent for your building , we had no issue  with any 
plumbing contractor  carrying out the work  to replace  the valve  and stopcock as 
required earlier this year. We recommended [Contractor] to you as we were familiar 
with them  completing  many successful repairs using a Pipe Freeze  Kit.
Ref: DRN35831894So it appears clear that it was technically  possible  to use freezing to replace Mr Bs and Mrs 
Rs stopcock, because  it didnt involve hot water, and indeed  that technique had been used 
before in the block, and was used successfully by Mr Bs engineer.
But Aviva has said that in the case  of blocks of flats, it isnt a technique  it uses  because of 
the significant consequences  for other properties  if the freezing failed. I dont consider that to 
be an unreasonable approach as a matter  of policy. Other businesses and engineers might 
well be less cautious. This service isnt able to tell a business what  policies it should adopt 
when handling  technical issues. 
Mr B argues  that Aviva  misled him by not making  it clear from the outset that it doesnt use 
freezing kits in blocks of flats. He says that had he known, hed have contacted another 
plumber on Saturday  rather than waiting until Tuesday to be given that information. But it 
wasnt until the Monday,  when  Avivas engineer called,  that it was found that the water  
couldnt be turned off internally because the stopcock had jammed,  and when freezing was 
first raised as a solution.
Mr B complains that on 22 January he was initially told by one of Avivas agents  that a 
freezing kit would be brought later that day. Mrs R had waited in for that appointment. But 
that appointment was then cancelled at short  notice  when Aviva considered that the use of a 
freezing kit wasnt possible.
I asked Aviva whether  its claims agents  deal with a range of HomeCare  policies, and so 
might not know that different considerations applied to blocks  of flats. It confirmed to me that 
its agents deal with a vast range of Home Emergency policies.  
I should mention  for completeness that in his complaints to Aviva, Mr B made reference to 
the Compensation Scheme referred  to in his policy which  he thought applied to the repair of 
his leak. But this relates to compensation in the event that Aviva is unable to meet  its 
liabilities, such as in an insolvency situation, and doesnt relate to compensation for costs 
incurred in employing an engineer privately.
To summarise, Mr B and Mrs R needed  Aviva to fix a leak. This required the water to be 
turned off, and this couldnt be done  internally because of a jammed stopcock, so this 
needed to be replaced first. To do this, Aviva said the supply to the whole block  would need 
to be turned off. Mr B disagreed, and said the incoming pipe in their flat could be frozen. 
Aviva initially  said it would  do this, and then said it wouldnt because  of the risk of damage to 
the block if the freezing didnt succeed. Mr B and Mrs R called  in their own engineer  to do 
this at a cost of £276 which they want to have reimbursed.
Having taken into account the extensive  correspondence in this matter, Im not persuaded  
that Aviva  has done anything wrong apart from cancelling an appointment at short  notice 
when it was realised  that its agent had been  incorrect in saying that an engineer could fix the 
problem using a freezing  kit.
I consider that Aviva  is entitled to decide how to address a technical  problem, and to apply 
its own assessment of risk, which may not be shared by others. It offered to fix the leak if Mr 
B and Mrs R arranged for the mains water  to be turned off, which they were  reluctant to do. 
Im therefore  not going to ask it to reimburse to Mr B and Mrs R the £276  they paid to their 
own engineer.  In relation to this I also note the policy term which  states:
 
General Exclusions
Ref: DRN35831895The following  arc also excluded from cover and therefore the Underwriters will not be 
liable for any of the following:
. . .
i)  the costs of any work carried out by you or persons  not authorised by us in 
advance,
I appreciate that a cancelled appointment is very inconvenient,  and that there was a delay in 
having the leak fixed because of the miscommunication by Aviva as to the circumstances in 
which it would use a freezing kit. However Aviva has offered compensation of £69 for this 
which I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this case. I consider that it 
is proportionate to the inconvenience experienced, which was over a short period of time 
and did not lead to any consequential loss or further  damage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr Bs and Mrs Rs complaint, and I 
dont require Aviva  Insurance Limited  to do anything more than to pay the compensation of 
£69 it has offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3583189