K820x#14Complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank Plc restricted and then closed  his current  
account, and the service  theyve provided.  Hed like compensation for the distress caused. 
Background
On the 20 February  2018 Lloyds received contact from another  bank, Ill call A, to advise that 
Mr W had received fraudulent credits  totalling  £7,600 into his account. On the 
22 February 2018 Lloyds wrote  to Mr W to give him 65 days notice that theyd be closing his 
account, and he needs to make alternative banking  arrangements.
Mr W made contact  with Lloyds on the 27 February  2018 to say that the £7,600 hed 
received wasnt fraudulent  funds, and he was being repaid by a friend after lending  him 
£10,000. 
Mr W complained  to Lloyds. He was unhappy  with the way Lloyds spoke to him, and the 
accusations theyd made regarding his conduct and involvement in fraud.  He also thought it 
was unreasonable theyd  discussed his spending habits. 
Lloyds responded to say theyd acted fairly in reviewing and closing Mr Ws account. 
Mr W didnt accept Lloyds decision and complained to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt think  Lloyds needed to do 
anything further.  They said that Lloyds had acted fairly in reviewing and closing Mr Ws 
account, and they hadnt  accused him of fraud. She also thought  Lloyds comment  that Mr W 
had become irate  wasnt fair, but it hadnt caused  Mr W significant distress. 
Mr Ws representative responded to say, Mr W didnt accept the view.  They  said: :
-The complaint  wasnt about the account  closure, more the treatment he received 
when the account  was reviewed and closed.
-Mr W didnt  receive  the notice to close letter and Lloyds failed to adhere to their 
procedures.
-Lloyds should  have notified  C about  the freeze and a clear  timetable of next steps.
-Our client  felt humiliated,  suffered distress  and his character was called into question.
-Mr W and his family suffered financial hardship due to the banks actions.
As both parties didnt  agree  its been passed  to me for a decision.  
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for similar reasons.  
Account restriction and service
Although I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy that restrictions were  placed on his account
businesses have a legal  obligation  to protect  the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations.  Mr W agreed to this term as a customer  and its a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Lloyds were  acting  in line with their legal and regulatory 
Ref: DRN35853772obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed 
Mr Ws account. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it initially  blocked  Mr Ws 
account and didnt allow him access to his funds.
Mr Ws representative has argued that Lloyds should have notified Mr W about the decision 
to restrict his account. I understand that it was frustrating for Mr W to learn  about  the account  
restriction when attempting to make a payment, but theres no duty on Mr W to advise him 
that his accounts  are under restriction or details about their timetable for review.  
Mr Ws unhappy that Lloyds referred  to him becoming irate and mentioned his account  
spending in internal bank  notes. Ive listened  to the call that took place on the 
28 February 2018 when this note was recorded,  and I agree Mr W didnt act in an irate 
manner. And Im also satisfied that it wasnt appropriate for Lloyds to comment  on Mr Ws 
spending activity.  Ive thought about  the impact on Mr W from Lloyds comments, and 
although I understand Mr Ws saying this called his character into question Im satisfied the 
impact on him wasnt substantial. And therefore doesnt merit compensation. 
Account closure
Mr Ws representative explained that Mr W didnt  receive the notice of closure letter from 
Lloyds. Ive considered  Mr Ws argument  here, but it isnt Lloyds responsibility to ensure the 
letter is received.  And Im satisfied it was sent on the 22 February 2018. 
A bank  is entitled  to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank.
But, before a bank  closes  an account it must  do so in a way, which complies with the terms
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws account  state  that there are certain circumstances in
which Lloyds can immediately close a customers  account. The terms and conditions state 
that Lloyds can close an account without any notice:
If we reasonably consider that:
-there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected to the account;
-you are or may be behaving improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive 
way);
-by continuing  the agreement we (or another company in the Lloyds Banking Group)  
may be exposed to action  from any government, regulator or other authority or may 
break a regulatory  requirement; or
-you have seriously or repeatedly broken this agreement in any other  way. 
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Lloyds acted  within the terms and conditions
when they closed Mr Ws account. 
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr W and I appreciate the closure  of his account caused 
him inconvenience. But the bank  can make commercial decisions about who it offers  
banking services to. They  cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can 
decide they no longer want to do business  with individuals. Thats because they have the 
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract  with. And Im satisfied that 
in Mr Ws case  Lloyds exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided  to 
close his account.  
Ref: DRN35853773My Final  Decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3585377