K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains about a county court judgement  relating  to money  owed to Santander UK 
Plc (Santander) as she has no relationship with them.
background
Ms G came to us as she was unhappy with Santanders response to her complaint that she 
never had an account with them  and felt harassed by their contact with her. Santander didnt 
uphold the complaint. They said their letter was in relation to a credit card account  opened  in 
2008 which defaulted in December 2012. Santander said they would still issue  letters  for the 
balance of the account annually for six years  due to the default on the account. And any 
further documentation may be issued  form a third party  who Ill refer to in this decision as 
H  as they were  now dealing  with the account and Ms Gs concerns should be taken up 
with them.
Our adjudicator could  find no evidence to conclude this was not Ms Gs debt. So, on 
balance, he concluded  Santander had done  nothing wrong.
Ms G didnt agree. She said Santander couldnt prove categorically who the account 
belonged to and if they were pursuing  debts inside or outside the 6 year limitation period 
they shouldve  kept their records.  But in her case she said there  were  no records as there 
was no connection  to her. She thought the court order  was unjustified  and wanted  Santander  
to provide the money to pay it off and clear her name.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The records  Santander  have sent satisfy me that the account  existed and was opened in Ms 
Gs name. The dealings  on the account it are set out accurately in the adjudicators  view  so 
I wont repeat them  all here. Following the default of the account in December  2012  the debt 
is now owned by H, who on 25 October  2018  obtained a country court judgement against Ms 
G for the amount owed  on the account.  As our adjudicators  explained its not for this service 
to investigate or challenge county  court judgements.  So thats outside the scope of what  I 
can do and I wont be considering it in my decision. But like the investigator  Ive looked to 
ensure the correct policies were followed by Santander when the credit  card debt first ran 
into difficulties.
Ms G says she has no knowledge of this card,  no relationship with Santander and, if the 
account had ever existed,  it could  have been  opened in her name by someone using her 
name and address, but it did not have any connection with her personally. I cant know 
exactly whats happened when this account was opened in Ms Gs name. Where facts  have  
been in dispute and I cant  know exactly whats happened,  Ive decided whats more likely to 
have happened, at the time, on a balance of probabilities. 
Santanders address  records  for Ms G go back to 2004 and show one change  of address on 
6 July 2012  shortly  after repayments  stopped - to the address still in use by Ms G in late 
2018 during the court  proceedings  and when she complained to Santander. This change of 
address on 6 July 2012 is recorded by Santander as a result of Ms G being  traced  by 
Santanders Debt Collection Agency. 
Ref: DRN33562632Although Santander cant  send us a copy of the final notice of arrears it sent to Ms G in 
November 2012  their records satisfy me this address, still in use in late 2018 was the 
address they had recorded for her at the time that it was sent in November 2012. And thats 
the same  one that was still in use in late 2018 to which the court  application by H was made 
to in August  2018 and to which S sent their final response to Ms Gs complaint in November 
2018, both of which she clearly received before making her complaint to us.
Santander says the payments and the general use of the card wasnt suspicious.  And from 
everything Ive seen I can appreciate why theyd think  that. The records  show  this account 
was actively used for a number of balance transfers   which its reasonable to assume were 
also held in the name of Ms G  and purchases until May 2012. At one point it was largely 
repaid. But when there was a balance on the card the account received regular monthly 
direct debit payments,  suggesting the minimum balance on the card was being repaid  each  
month, until May 2012. Santander also told us this card requires  any current  account  making  
direct debit payments  for the bill to be in the same  name as the credit  card account holder  
here Ms G.
From everything Ive seen  theres nothing that supports the assertion that this is not Ms Gs 
debt. So overall,  on balance, Im satisfied Santander  did nothing wrong in corresponding  with 
Ms G about this debt.  So I cant uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356263