K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained to FB Wealth Management Limited (FBWM) about 
investment advice they say was unsuitable, and the fees for administration  of the investment.
background
A previous complaint  about the suitability of the investment  was referred to this Service  by 
Mr and Mrs M in 2017.  A decision was issued not upholding that complaint.
In 2018 a complaint was raised against  the third-party firm that was acting  as a discretionary 
fund manager  (DFM)  for Mr and Mrs Ms investment.   In its response to Mr and Mrs M, the 
DFM provided  documents referring to administration charges that they said were never 
confirmed with them by FBWM.  As a result, Mr and Mrs M say the issues forming  the 
substance of their previous complaint against FBWM  should  be re-considered and have 
raised additional concerns about fees.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She explained that she was 
unable to reconsider the specific issues decided in an ombudsmans decision in the previous  
complaint referred  to this Service.  But she commented that she hadnt seen anything that 
would lead her to a different outcome in any event.
The investigator stated  that she was able to consider the new point raised  in relation to fees 
that will apply at the point of exiting  the investment.  In summary, she concluded  that Mr and 
Mrs M were appropriately made  aware of the applicable fee structure  and hadnt  seen  
evidence of specific exit fees that would apply.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for a fresh review 
by an ombudsman. But they didnt provide any further comments in response to the 
investigators conclusions.
FBWM responded  agreeing  with the investigators  view and clarifying  that there are no 
specific exit fees applicable to the investment other  than the standard fees which apply to all 
transactions.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has now been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
Its important for me to confirm what I am considering in relation to this complaint.  As a final 
decision has previously been  issued covering some of the points Mr and Mrs M have raised, 
I cannot now reconsider those issues.  
I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs M feel about this complaint and recognise they have 
been dealing  with their concerns for several  years. But the points they make about the 
suitability of the initial advice, initial fee and agreed annual fees very much relate to the 
issues that formed the basis of their previous  complaint.
Ref: DRN37023962Mr and Mrs M say they werent aware  of the charges that would apply when exiting their 
investments, and believed that transaction fees would be included in the 0.8% annual 
management charge.   And they are concerned that they hadnt agreed to additional  
transaction fees.
I cant be sure exactly what  was discussed with the adviser at the outset, but the investment 
documentation does  have  a section clearly  setting out the fee structure. In addition to the 
0.8% annual  management fee it states  there is an administration charge of £15 per 
transaction.  Ive not seen anything to confirm there  are any specific additional  exit fees, but 
recognise that a £15 transaction  fee would apply  to the exit of each fund.  Whilst I 
understand the point Mr and Mrs M has made,  Ive seen no documentary evidence to 
support them having  a bespoke fee structure varying that set out in the documents.
The DFM  provided Mr and Mrs M with a copy of the full investment application which  theyd 
both signed.  This refers  to the Fee Schedule and applicable terms and conditions of 
business.  They say that the form wasnt completed  when they signed it, and the adviser 
completed it subsequently.  This may be the case,  as its not uncommon for advisers to 
assist clients with application documents.
Ive given particular  consideration to this point, and think whilst the application form was 
incomplete when  they signed it, they knew of its existence and that it would likely set out 
features such as fees.  So on balance I believe there would likely have been some 
discussion about its contents, and a copy would  have been available  to Mr and Mrs M.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M were aware they were agreeing to terms and conditions 
when they were signing the application  form, and the fees within  that form are clearly  set out. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs M say they were told something else by the adviser,  and that may 
be the case, but without anything else to contradict the standard fees in the documentation, I 
dont consider theres enough for me to uphold the complaint.
I realise that my decision is likely to come  as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I must 
assure them that Ive considered their complaint impartially and taken everything into 
account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  FB Wealth  
Management Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3702396