K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold him an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) in 2012. 
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In September  2012 Mr C took out an URCA which incurred a monthly fee.
Mr C says that when he was sold the URCA, he was told he had to take it out to keep his 
overdraft. He says the URCA  was unsuitable  for him.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint,  but Mr C disagrees, so the complaint  comes 
to me to decide.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint.
I think that Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  the URCA to Mr C and Ill explain  why.
Mr C had held a fee free account  with Bank  of Scotland with a £300 authorised overdraft for 
many years prior to the sale and so taking out the fee paying URCA was a significant step 
for him. 
In September  2012 the URCA benefits were worldwide family travel  insurance with winter  
sports; AA car breakdown  cover as a driver or passenger; mobile  phone  insurance; home 
emergency cover of up to £250 pay out; card protection; and a fee free overdraft of up to 
£300.
The cost of the URCA was £15 a month  or £180 a year.
Bank of Scotland has provided  the documents from the day of the sale. One of these is titled 
Your interview summary document. This contains  information about what  was clearly a 
substantial and detailed  discussion that had taken place. 
It shows that Mr C did not have a need  for the world-wide travel  insurance. In my view this 
would have been a reasonable reflection of the discussion  as Mr C says he didnt  travel  at 
the time or for many years  after.
It does not mention the fee free overdraft (up to £300)  as any part of the discussion. And 
Bank of Scotland has provided  evidence that although Mr C had an overdraft at the time of 
the sale, he didnt  use his overdraft significantly for over six months after the sale.  So, in my 
view its more likely than not that the fee free overdraft wasnt discussed  and certainly  wasnt 
a major consideration for Mr C being  interested in the product. 
Ref: DRN33796582It refers to Mr C travelling  regularly by car, but it doesnt show  that he was a car owner. In 
my view this would have  been  a reasonable  reflection of the discussion as Mr C says he 
didnt own a car. In such circumstances  in my view Mr C wouldve had a limited benefit  from 
the AA car breakdown service  with Home Start mentioned.
It refers to Mr C having a mobile  phone,  and he agrees that he did. But he never  at any time 
registered a phone for the insurance which in my view suggests his interest  in this was 
limited.
It refers to Mr C being interested in the home  emergency cover, and in my view, he probably 
was, as he tried to use it in 2014.
So, I think that at the time of sale Mr C had no significant interest in the travel insurance  or 
the fee free overdraft, had limited  interest in the mobile phone insurance and the AA 
breakdown cover, but was mainly  really interested in the home  emergency  service.  And so, 
with the substantial monthly price of the URCA, I dont think the product was suitable  for him.
Mr C says that he was told he had to take the URCA to keep his overdraft. I cant know if this 
was the case  as I wasnt there at the discussion.  But I can consider whether Bank  of 
Scotland acted  properly  overall.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt  recommend the URCA  to Mr C or advise him to buy it. Mr C 
says Bank  of Scotland did advise him to buy it. 
Either way Bank of Scotland was required to give Mr C sufficient information for him to make  
an informed decision about  the URCA.
I dont think Bank of Scotland did give Mr C sufficient information  to decide if the URCA was 
suitable for him or not and Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland has provided  a form signed on the day of sale by Mr C in which  he accepts 
the terms and conditions of the account.  This form also contains boxes to tick to 
acknowledge that he has received all the information about the URCA. None of these boxes 
is ticked. So, I think its more likely  than not that he didnt received the information he needed  
at the time on paper  in a way he could take in but was influenced  more  by what he was told 
in the discussion. 
And had he been  told clearly in the discussion about  the benefits,  their cost, and that he 
could obtain the elements he might have  been interested  in elsewhere for less, I dont  think 
he would  have chosen himself to take out the account. So, I think  its more likely than not Mr 
C wasnt given sufficient  clear information in a way he could  understand it and he lost out as 
a result.   
putting things right
I require Bank of Scotland plc to: 
Pay Mr C the amount Mr C paid each month for the URCA.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN33796583If Mr C has saved money  because of a better rate on his overdraft or any loan by having 
the packaged account and Bank  of Scotland can show exactly  how much  Mr C saved, it 
may deduct his savings  from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated the 
two points above. Bank of Scotland must explain clearly  and simply to Mr C how it has 
worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. Bank of 
Scotland must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr C and Bank of Scotland both accepted my provisional decision and had nothing  further to 
add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision and did not put forward any further evidence 
or arguments. So, my conclusions remain  as outlined  in my provisional findings above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Bank of Scotland  plc to pay 
redress to Mr C as outlined  in the putting  things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3379658