K820x#14Complaint
Ms H is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance  Society Limiteds decision to decline her 
claim and cancel her policy.
background
Ms H suffered chest wall pain symptoms and made a claim on her income protection policy  
in January 2017. She said L&G declined her claim unfairly because it based  its decision on 
incorrect medical information recorded on her medical record.  Ms H also said that despite  
having her records  amended L&G has not reconsidered its position  on her claim.  She would 
like it to accept her claim and pay compensation for the stress caused.
L&G said it declined Ms Hs claim because  shed mis-represented the facts around her 
health. In particular, it asked her about a pre-existing medical condition  she had and later 
discovered she had not answered correctly. L&G said had it known the facts surrounding 
Ms Hs health it would not have offered to insure  her. Because of this, L&G refunded the 
premiums she had paid and cancelled the policy. 
Our investigator found in L&Gs favour  saying  it had asked Ms H a clear question  when she 
took out the policy and that she did not answer this correctly.  He understood this was not a 
deliberate attempt to mis-lead the insurer, but felt overall  that it was entitled to decline her 
claim on that basis. He also thought it fair that L&G had returned the premiums and 
cancelled the policy.
Ms H disagreed with this. In summary  she said;
Her medical records have since been updated to reflect the changes she discussed     
with L&G and our investigator and that this had been  ignored;
She was not employed at the time she received unfit for work certificates from her 
GP as she was caring for her mother and receiving carers allowance;
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking L&G to 
do anything in respect of this complaint.  This is because I do not think L&G has declined  Ms 
Hs claim unfairly. Ill explain  why. 
Ms H took this policy out in January 2017 which was the same month she began to suffer  
with chest wall pain symptoms. When she initially took the policy  out L&G asked questions  
about her health  but Ms H did not answer  one of them correctly.  The question was;
during the last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional, for any 
other illness, injury or disability thats  kept you off work for a continuous period of 2 weeks  or 
more, for example  stress,  headaches, trapped nerve?
Ms H answered no to this question  when she should have answered  yes. The reason  I say 
that is because  there  were three  occasions where Ms H had visited  her doctor between  2012  
Ref: DRN38937442and 2017 which resulted  in her being  signed off as unfit for work. And on each of these 
occasions, she was signed off for a period of two weeks or more. I think the question  asked 
by L&G was clear  and it should have  been answered differently. I do not think  Ms H  
deliberately intended to mis-lead  L&G about her health and so I find this error to be a 
careless one rather than deliberate. But that does not mean I should uphold  her complaint. 
Ms Hs answers led to L&G offering her a contract  of insurance, when, had it known the full 
facts about Ms Hs medical history, this would not have  happened  meaning  there would 
not have been a policy for Ms H to claim on. Thats why L&G is entitled  to decline her claim 
and cancel the policy from the beginning. 
I note Ms H has challenged the medical  reasons given  for each of these occasions, which to 
be clear are recorded as;
October 2014  unfit for work until end of December (fibromyalgia); 
December 2014   unfit for work until end of February 2015 (fibromyalgia); 
11 May 2015  unfit for work until 25 May (fibromyalgia).
Ms H has suffered with fibromyalgia since April 2013 following an accident.  But she disputed 
this was the cause of the three unfit for work  certificates being issued. She explained these 
occasions were due to left knee pain which began in September  2014. I take on board 
Ms Hs comments  here. Essentially, she says that she has not suffered  from an illness,  injury 
or disability  thats  kept her off work  for two weeks or more. The issue  here though  is that her 
medical record does  not reflect that. 
Its clear that Ms H was suffering with pain in her leg and her left knee. However her GP said 
this was related  to her fibromyalgia. Ms H later challenged this with her doctor  as at the end 
of May 2015, she was seen by an orthopaedic specialist who discovered she had a 
significant meniscal tear in her left knee with some  underlying bone bruising. But her GP 
declined to remove the fibromyalgia code given to issue  her unfit for work certificate as she 
felt it was fair to use this term. She acknowledged, retrospectively, the meniscal tear but felt 
ultimately this could be added alongside  the fibromyalgia  code used to issue  the certificate, 
rather than replace it.
L&G, as Ms Hs insurer, was entitled to rely on this information in order  to decide whether 
she had answered  the above question correctly. And given whats  recorded on her medical  
record, I do not think its acted unreasonably  here because it shows  she had been  to see her 
doctor and was signed off work,  for a continuous period of two weeks  or more, due to her 
fibromyalgia. 
Ms H has made a further argument about  not being  in employment at the time she was 
signed off as unfit for work. Shes  subsequently explained she was caring  for a family 
member and in receipt of carers allowance  and that she needed to show a certificate  so 
she would  still receive some pay. To be clear,  Im satisfied Ms H was employed at the time in 
question. I say that because this is how she too has referred  to her situation at the time. 
Ms H described herself as a personal  assistant to her family member,  as well as a carer. In 
her claim form to L&G she stated this was her occupation and that she worked  27 hours  per 
week. She also listed her annual wage as well as referred  to the family member as her 
employer;
my employer was admitted to hospital..  in turn I have been  made  redundant
Ref: DRN38937443And so, on balance, Im also satisfied  Ms H was employed and that she ought reasonably to 
have known this when she was asked by L&G when she initially took the out the policy.      
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3893744