K820x#14Complaint
Miss S has complained  that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont refund a transaction she says she 
didnt make.
Background
Miss S said she didnt recognise a payment to an energy supplier  on her credit  card statement. 
She raised  her concerns  with Sainsbury  but it said it was too late to raise a chargeback 
request. It didnt make enquiries of the supplier and refused  to refund the payment.
Miss S wasnt happy with this decision so she brought her complaint to this service. She said 
shes never had a relationship with the energy  supplier.
Our adjudicator established that the energy supplier had supplied services  to Miss Ss home 
but the account wasnt in her name. The supplier also confirmed  that a Mr S had been  in 
touch with it about the payment, which was for an outstanding debt. 
The supplier  had also refunded an overpayment,  after updating the meter readings. It paid 
the refund  into Miss Ss account.
For these reasons, our adjudicator decided it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable to ask 
Sainsbury to refund the payment. 
Miss S disagreed with his view. She said shed never authorised  the payment. Shes asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons.
In short,  Sainsbury  is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant  
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs 2009).
Where credit  is involved in cases like this, the PSRs  make  provision  for the Consumer Credit  
Act (CCA) 1974 to apply in place of certain sections  of the PSRs. These provisions cant be 
excluded by the account terms. The relevant sections of the CCA  here involve a credit facility.
The relevant  provision is section 83 of the CCA 1974. This says a customer  isnt liable for 
any loss from the use of a credit  facility unless they (or someone acting as their agent) used 
the facility. 
But as an exception to that, section 84 says that a customer  who gives someone  a credit 
token (such as a credit card) is liable for any use of it by that person.
Ref: DRN34944412In this case, Miss S says she didnt  make the payment  to the energy  supplier  and is seeking  
a refund of that amount. So, my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I 
think she authorised  the payment, by either making it herself or allowing someone else to 
use her credit card.
The energy  supplier confirmed the payment was made online with Miss Ss card details. 
Sainsbury hasnt  provided any technical reports but, as the payment was processed,  I think I 
can safely assume that the relevant  details  were entered: accountholders name, start and 
expiry dates, card and CVV numbers.  So Im satisfied the payment was authenticated.
But this isnt enough to hold Miss S liable  for the payment. I have to consider  whether she 
consented to the payment. 
Sainsbury confirmed  Miss S hadnt  made any payments to the energy supplier in the past. The 
energy supplier also confirmed she wasnt the accountholder. Based  on the information Ive 
seen, I believe another  member of her household was the accountholder - most likely Mr S -  
and that hed been responsible for payments in the past.  I think whats happened  here is that 
he couldnt pay the electricity bill in the normal way so hes used her credit card to do it.
I dont believe she made the payment herself,  which might  explain  why she didnt recognise  
it. But I have to consider  whether she allowed Mr S to use her card. Im afraid I think its 
likely she did. I say this because her statement also shows two PayPal payments in his 
name, which suggest he was using her card. Its equally possible she made  the payments. 
But, I also note that a year later, in July 2017, Miss S added Mr S as a second accountholder 
on her Sainsburys account. So, I think its likely  they agreed to share  responsibility  for the 
household expenses.
Moreover, this was a payment for electricity supply, a household essential. I think  its more 
likely than not she wouldve agreed  to paying off the bill if the accountholder couldnt.
But, even  if she didnt  consent to the payment, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
refund her. Shes benefited from the electricity  supply. And theres  no evidence this was a fraud. 
I agree  Sainsbury  couldnt raise a chargeback request because the time limit had expired by 
the time Miss S made  her complaint. So it made  no error there.
And I dont  consider that it shouldve investigated  her complaint under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  There were no grounds  for that. This law protects consumers 
where a merchant has made misrepresentations on a sale or has breached the contract, 
typically by providing  faulty goods or services.  This wasnt  Miss Ss complaint. 
I appreciate the disputed  payment was for a large  amount and might  have affected Miss Ss 
ability to pay off her credit  card bill. So, I am very sorry to send such disappointing news. 
However, I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
Based on the evidence,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Sainsbury to refund 
the disputed payment.
Ref: DRN34944413My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494441