K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a store 
card. Financial Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) has accepted  responsibility  for this 
complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things simple. Mr M says FICL mis-sold  
him the PPI policy on his store card.  
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out on a store card in 2003. The 
PPI covered Mr M if he was unable to work because of accident,  sickness  or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. But FICL disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.  
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why. 
FICL needed to give Mr M clear  information about the PPI before he agreed to take it. That 
included highlighting anything that could make  it difficult for Mr M to make  a successful 
claim. 
Mr M says he was self-employed at the time he took the PPI. He has been consistent 
throughout his complaint and although FICL  have  requested more information I havent  seen 
anything to make me doubt what hes said. 
Ive looked at the policy terms  that likely applied to Mr Ms policy when it was sold, and 
I think it wouldve been more difficult for Mr M to make a claim for unemployment  than he 
wouldve expected.  His business wouldve had to have stopped trading and have been 
wound up (or be in the process of being wound up) before  he could make a claim. I think  
FICL shouldve highlighted this term to Mr M  and Ive not seen anything to suggest it did.
So I think Mr M has lost out as a result  of what FICL did wrong  and so it needs to put things 
right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr M in the financial  position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. And 
what FICL need to do will depend  on if Mr Ms store account is still open.
if Mr Ms store card account is still open:
Ref: DRN36336752FICL should put Mr M in the financial  position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mr M would owe on his card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr M owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mr M would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest (at 8% 
a year) on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point  when 
Mr M wouldve owed FICL something on his card.
C.FICL  should tell Mr M what its done to work out A and B.
if Mr Ms store card account is now closed:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr M would have owed when he closed he store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr M owed when he closed he 
account and what  he wouldve  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount they owe him. 
B.FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between what  Mr M 
wouldve owed when he closed he account  from when he closed it until he gets the 
refund.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr M would have owed each  month without PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest (at 8% 
a year) on the extra Mr M paid. And they should carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Mr M wouldve owed FICL something on his store card.
D.FICL should tell Mr M what theyve done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax FICL have taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN36336753my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  should pay Mr Ms compensation in line with the instructions set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3633675