K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy in 2006  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a Lloyds branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N only (not Mrs N) for accident, sickness, and 
unemployment, subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to cover their mortgage 
repayments each  month  and provide  an additional cash  benefit in the event of a successful 
claim. At the time, it cost £60.79  a month.  
From the mortgage application form, I can see that Mr N was employed  as a milkman and 
that he had been with his employer for around  a year when the cover was sold. I can also 
see from the mortgage documentation that Mr N would not have been entitled to any 
contractual sick pay at the relevant time.  Mr and Mrs N told us that they didnt have any 
other means  with which to meet their mortgage repayments if Mr N was out of work. 
Ive been given some information about  some  medical conditions  Mrs N had at the point of 
sale. But as she wasnt covered by the policy, I dont think these  conditions  would have been 
material to Mr and Mrs Ns decision to take the cover out. I havent been made aware of any 
medical conditions  Mr N had at the point of sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account was still running in 2018, 
but I understand the PPI was cancelled in 2008.  
Mr and Mrs Ns representative made lengthy and substantial representations on their behalf. 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ns representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs N 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ns representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely Mr and Mrs N could 
make a successful claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by 
the low claims  ratio.  The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Lloyds should 
have told Mr and Mrs N about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs N and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN33961212The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Mrs N would have turned 60 during the life of the policy and so it did not represent  
good value. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
As I said above, this sale took place in 2006 after the sale of general insurance  products like 
this became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the 
FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules 
(ICOB) are applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN33961213Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN33961214-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs N with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs N, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs N 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs N 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Those representing Mr and Mrs N didnt specifically argue that the optional nature of the 
cover wasnt  made clear.  However,  for completeness, I can see that the mortgage offer 
made it clear  that PPI was an optional product and they werent obliged to take it out if they 
didnt want it. The mortgage offer is an important  document  which  I think Mr and Mrs N 
would have read. So if it was at odds  with what was discussed during the meeting with 
Lloyds, I think they would have raised  this at the time. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs N agreed to taking the cover out. I can see that the adviser 
recommended joint cover, but the PPI application  was made  out for Mr N only.  So it looks as 
though there  was some discussion about  the cover and how Mr and Mrs N wanted it to be 
split. They  also completed a direct debit mandate, so the premiums would have been 
collected separately from their bank  account. If they hadnt agreed to PPI, I think  theyd have 
questioned what  that money leaving their bank account was for. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs N knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ive treated this as an advised sale.  Thats because Im satisfied that Lloyds took account  of 
Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances before recommending  this cover.  This means Lloyds  had to 
advise Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN33961215While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs N. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ns financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs N had a need  for the 
policy, I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I cant  see 
that any questions  were asked about Mr Ns health. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr N met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs N had a need  for the policy. The contemporaneous evidence  Ive seen 
suggests Mr N would  not have received any contractual sick pay if he unable  to work 
due to illness, his redundancy benefits  were  likely to be limited and Mr and Mrs N 
didnt have any savings they could fall back on. The policy would  have helped  Mr and 
Mrs N manage  the consequences if Mr N was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs N. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs N. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ns employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And Im not aware  of any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability  to claim.  There were  also no additional  restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr N be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs N be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
-I appreciate Mr and Mrs N said that Mrs N would have turned 60 during the lifetime of 
the policy and so it didnt represent  good value. As she wasnt  covered by the PPI, I 
dont think Mrs Ns retirement  plans would have affected the cover. I can see that 
they told Lloyds  at the point of application  that Mr Ns expected  retirement age was 
65 and it appears they planned for their mortgage to be repaid by that point. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN33961216Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr N was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs N 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs N Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ns. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs N about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N suggested.  And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs N suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
N. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs N suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs N would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
Ref: DRN33961217While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs N suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs N would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs N say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs N had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point of 
sale. Having said that, I can see from the mortgage  offer that Mr and Mrs N would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a couple of years,  so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs N would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs N would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ns 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
For the first 24 months  the policy excluded claims  relating to any condition,  injury, 
illness, disease or sickness, including any symptoms of the same that Mr N knew 
Ref: DRN33961218about or ought to have known about at the start date or for which  he had received 
treatment from a doctor during the 12 months immediately before the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr N be unable  to do 
his own gainful  occupation, a similar  gainful  occupation or any paid work which  his 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs N pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr N was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr N wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have  any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs N had known they could only claim for disability if Mr N was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  reasonably  
become qualified for, it might have played into Mr and Mrs Ns thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr N was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs N that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on. In those circumstances, I consider it likely 
Mr and Mrs N would  still have thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage 
payments would have  been of benefit to them and would help them manage the 
consequences should Mr and Mrs N be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk if Mr N was out 
of work. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs N would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
Ref: DRN33961219that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr N was made redundant, or was 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs N would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs N found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs N think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2006  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN339612110Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs N and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3396121