K821x#15complaint
Mr L and Miss T are unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc sent their mortgage offer 
containing personal information  to the wrong address. They want  BOI to pay them 
substantial compensation and monitor their credit file.
background
Mr L and Miss T submitted a mortgage  application  to BOI in October  2018.  And a mortgage 
offer was sent out in November  2018.  But BOI sent the mortgage offer to a third party  in 
error. The recipient  contacted BOI to let it know. And BOI wrote to Mr L and Miss T to tell 
them what  had happened.
Mr L called  BOI to complain. And BOI issued a final response letter. It apologised for the 
error and any inconvenience this may have caused.  And it offered Mr L and Miss T £150  as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Mr L and Miss T didnt  feel that BOIs  offer was sufficient to compensate them for the stress 
and grief they had been caused.  And they also said that they had been placed onto a 
variable rate while waiting  for their mortgage offer, which had cost them  money.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator said:
He felt that the offer of £150  was fair and reasonable to compensate them  for 
BOIs error;
He recommended that BOI should  also reimburse Mr L and Miss T for the cost of 
them both registering with the CIFAS  protective registration  scheme;
Although Mr L and Miss T had been  on the variable rate while waiting for the mortgage 
offer, he felt that the mortgage application  had completed in a reasonable timeframe.  
So he didnt uphold this aspect  of their complaint.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 14 June 2019. I said, in summary:
BOI had accepted  that it made an error  by sending  Mr L and Miss Ts mortgage offer to 
a third party. By doing this, personal  information  that could be used to commit fraud 
against them  had been revealed to the third party.
BOI had commented that it considered the risk of fraud  as a result of its error to be low, 
particularly as the third party  made contact with the Bank  in relation to the information 
they received.  And I accepted that this may be the case. But, although the risk of fraud  
may be low, there was still a risk, and my provisional  view was that it was fair that BOI 
helped Mr L and Miss T to mitigate this risk. So my provisional  decision was that BOI 
should pay the costs of them  registering with the CIFAS Protective Registration 
scheme for one year to help mitigate the potential risk of fraud and put their minds at 
rest.
Ref: DRN36356682In addition, I had no doubt that Mr L and Miss T had been caused distress and 
inconvenience by BOIs error. I noted  that BOI had offered them £150 compensation. 
But my provisional view was that this was not sufficient. As well as the stress of 
knowing that their personal  information  had been passed to a stranger, Mr L was also 
put to the trouble of having to change his bank account, as the information disclosed 
included his bank  details. This meant him taking time off work and driving some 
distance. And, having considered the circumstances,  my provisional  view was that BOI 
should pay them a further £150  in addition to the £150  already offered.
Mr L and Miss T are also unhappy that they went onto a variable rate while  waiting for 
their mortgage offer,  which  cost them extra in payments. They  said that this was due to 
the delay caused  by BOIs error. I was minded to agree. I was provisionally persuaded 
that BOI had caused a delay. And my provisional decision was that BOI should  
compensate Mr L and Miss T for the difference in interest that they paid as a result of 
that delay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Miss T have accepted my provisional decision. And BOI has accepted  the first two 
points of the decision. But it doesnt agree that it should be compensating Mr L and Miss T 
for 13 working days delay  and refunding  the difference in interest paid by them  during that 
period. It says, in summary, that Mr L and Miss T didnt complete the re-mortgage 
questionnaire required by their solicitors  until 30 November 2018 and the law firm was then 
required to obtain  a redemption statement and finalise the legal work. So BOI doesnt feel 
that completion could  have  taken place any earlier than it did.
In my provisional decision I said that, using the actual timescales, if the offer had been sent 
to Mr L and Miss T on 9 November, BOI would  have received it back  on 22 November rather  
than 5 December.  So I said that I was provisionally  persuaded  that BOI had caused  a delay 
of 13 working days. This was a typographical  error.  As is clear from the dates I gave,  my 
view is that BOI caused a 13 calendar  day delay at the beginning of the process. And, 
although Ive considered  what  BOI has to say, I remain of the view that it is fair that BOI 
compensates Mr L and Miss T for this. The compensation does not seek  to compensate  
them for any delays  later in the process  that were not due to BOIs  error.  So Im satisfied that 
my suggested redress is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to:
pay Mr L and Miss T a total of £300 compensation (including the £150 it has already 
offered);
reimburse Mr L and Miss T for the costs of them  registering with the CIFAS 
Protective Registration scheme for one year; and
calculate the additional interest  that Mr L and Miss T paid as a result  of the 13 calendar  
days delay and refund  that amount to them, together with interest at 8% simple  to the 
date of settlement.
Ref: DRN36356683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3635668