K821x#15complaint
Miss Ms complained that CIS General Insurance Limited unfairly applied  an additional
premium to her motor insurance  policy after shed bought it.
Reference to CIS includes its agent.
background
Miss M bought her policy in September 2017. She did a quote through  an aggregator 
website and then phoned CIS and paid for it upfront. A short  while later Miss M said CIS took 
money from her card and then refunded it to her. She said it then contacted  her to say she 
owed it money.
CIS said Miss M had a previous accident in 2014  that she should have told it about.  It said 
the aggregator site had asked Miss M if shed  had any previous claims. And if shed  told it 
about her previous claim it would have charged  her more for her policy. CIS said it had taken 
the money from the account it held for Miss M but shed claimed  the money back  via a 
chargeback.
Miss M said she hadnt had an accident  so CIS asked her to provide something from her 
insurer at the time of the alleged accident  to say she hadnt made a claim. When  Miss M 
didnt provide anything from her previous  insurer CIS applied an additional premium  to her 
policy. Miss M didnt pay this, so in January 2018 CIS told Miss M it would cancel her policy 
in seven days.
Miss M bought her complaint to us. She was unhappy as she wasnt  able to use her car. CIS 
said it would  reinstate the policy while it looked  into things. After considering Miss Ms 
complaint CIS still thought she owed them money.  In June 2018 CIS cancelled  her policy as 
she hadnt paid the additional premium. CIS provided information it had taken from the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which is a shared database used by insurers.  It 
said this showed  Miss S had a claim in 2014.
While we were  looking  into things CIS said it hadnt  put a cancellation marker on Miss Ms 
policy. It also said it would waive the additional  premium it had charged her. CIS also told us 
it had since closed a claim  on Miss Ms policy from 2017 and had refunded her premium  on 
a pro rata basis from June  2018. It paid her £77.26 plus 8% simple interest. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 March  2019. In that decision I said:
When she bought  her policy Miss M had a responsibility - under  the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. And for CIS to take any action at all it needs to show Miss M didnt do this 
and that she made whats described  as a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the 
consumer was asked.  I can see the aggregator  website  asked  Miss M In the last five years 
have youhad any accidents, claims or damage  involving any motor vehicle. Im satisfied 
this is a clear question.  Miss M didnt  tell CIS about any claims.
Ref: DRN37669502I can see that Miss M has a claim recorded  on CUE from 2014 which says she hit another  
driver in the rear. In this decision  I cant comment whether her insurer  at that time should 
have recorded  that claim  on CUE and if Miss M doesnt think  thats accurate shell  need to 
take it up with that insurer. I can see CIS gave Miss M the opportunity to provide something  
from that insurer to show  she didnt need to tell it about the claim  but Miss M didnt provide 
anything. If Miss M doesnt think this accident  happened shell  need  to take that up with the 
insurer that recorded the information on CUE separately.
In view of this, I think Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
But to show Miss Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under CIDRA CIS needs to 
show it would either not have  offered  the policy at all if Miss M hadnt made the 
misrepresentation or that it would have  offered  it on different terms. CIS has shown it would 
have offered Miss M a policy at a higher  premium.  So Im satisfied Miss M made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. Under CIDRA a qualifying misrepresentation is either  deliberate or 
reckless or careless. CIS seems  to have accepted Miss M didnt deliberately or recklessly 
provide the wrong information.
Where the policyholder has made  a careless misrepresentation CIDRA provides a number of 
remedies for the insurer. This includes continuing  with the policy on a proportionate basis or 
cancelling the policy. But charging an additional premium isnt one of these remedies. I 
accept CIS could have  asked Miss M if she wanted to pay the additional premium but it 
shouldnt have taken  the money  out of her account.  I understand Miss M got the money back 
by doing a chargeback through her bank. CIS has now said it will waive  the additional 
premium. This is fair in the circumstances  as it has no right to pursue Miss M for the money.
As Miss M didnt  want to pay an additional  premium  I think it was reasonable for CIS to have 
cancelled her policy, as this is an option available  to it under CIDRA. Wed usually say that 
before cancelling a policy  where a consumer doesnt  want to pay an additional  premium  the 
insurer should give them  the option to cancel first. This is so the consumer doesnt have a 
cancellation marker against  their name.  But in this case CIS has confirmed there  isnt a 
cancellation marker against  Miss M so I dont think this has caused her a loss. It has also 
waived the outstanding balance and she hasnt been charged a cancellation fee which  I 
think is fair in the circumstances.
At the time of cancelling Miss Ms policy CIS said shed  had a claim while  the policy was in 
force so the full premium was payable.  I understand that since then this has been closed as 
a non-fault claim  and CIS will be refunding  Miss M £77.26 which is her premium refund 
including 8% simple interest from June  2018. However this didnt form the basis of Miss Ms 
complaint to us so Im not making a finding on it in this decision.
I understand Miss M would like compensation for not being able to use her car. Im satisfied
Miss M had use of her car until June 2018  when her policy  was finally  cancelled.  But Im also 
satisfied that CIS acted  fairly when cancelling  her policy. So Im not going to ask CIS to 
compensate her for not being able to use her car.
Overall, I dont  think CIS should have taken money  from Miss Ms account  or told her she 
had no choice but to pay the additional  premium. But Im not going to ask it to do anything 
further this in particular case as Im persuaded Miss M didnt take reasonable care to make a 
misrepresentation, shes recovered the money CIS charged her and it hasnt placed a 
cancellation marker against  her policy. I understand CIS is also willing  to provide Miss M 
with a new quote if shed like one.
Ref: DRN37669503CIS didnt  provide any further comments. However Miss M didnt agree. She said shed been 
scared to use her car in case she was found to be driving without insurance. So she thought 
CIS should refund her whole  premium.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
depart from my original  findings.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
depart from my original  findings.
I appreciate how worrying  it would have been  for Miss M to think she might have been 
driving without insurance. But as I think CISs  decision to cancel her policy was fair and 
reasonable Im not going to ask it to compensate her for this.
my final decision
I understand CIS General  Insurance  Limited  has offered to waive the additional  premium  it 
took from Miss M as well as any cancellation  fee. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require         
CIS General Insurance Limited to waive the additional premium and any cancellation  fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3766950