K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained MoneyGram International Limited,  trading  as MoneyGram, wont 
refund £550 which  was released to someone who wasnt the proper recipient.
background
On 25 October 2017 Ms S went to a Post Office to use their MoneyGram services. At 09:22  
she authorised the sending  of £550 to a friend.  She was given an 8-digit code  to give to her 
friend to allow  her to pick up the money.  After speaking to her friend, Ms S needed to amend 
her instruction to add her friends  middle  name. She went  online and found  her money had 
already been collected  at a Post Office in Hatfield.
She complained to MoneyGram. They werent  prepared to refund Ms S as the person 
picking up the money  had given the right code and had used ID. Ms S brought her complaint 
to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator considered all the evidence,  including the ID MoneyGram accepted  to pay 
out £550 to someone that wasnt the proper recipient. It seemed clear this was fake passport 
ID from an EU country. Coincidentally he knew of another case  within the ombudsman 
service of a very similar nature. This money had also been  picked up by someone  at a Post 
Office in Hatfield  using fake ID from an EU country.
He asked MoneyGram to refund £550  to Ms S along  with 8% simple interest from 
25 October 2017 to the date of settlement.  
MoneyGram didnt agree  with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. On being allocated this complaint I contacted MoneyGram to ask them  if theyd 
now refund  the money to Ms S as I agreed with the overall outcome. I received no response  
at all.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks and financial institutions  to 
refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply   about whether the customer had contributed to what had 
happened but nothing Ive seen  would have an impact on how Im considering this case. So 
when we look at whether  a business has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence.  The evidence  here is clear:
Ref: DRN30113812Ms S made  an instruction to send  money  at a Post Office and received an 8-digit  
code;
Ms S told us she hadnt shared the code with her friend. She and her friend were 
going to collect  the money  together so she had no need to share the code in 
advance;
Ms Ss friend didnt  live or work  close to where the funds were collected;
Fake ID was used  to collect  the £550.  The date of birth of the recipient doesnt match 
Ms Ss friend; 
MoneyGram doesnt require its agents to check the validity  of the ID so accepts that 
it may have accepted  fake ID; and
A further  incidence of money being  paid out in the same  geographical area under 
very similar circumstances suggests MoneyGram transactions were  being targeted 
by fraudsters.
Im satisfied MoneyGram allowed £550  to be paid out to a fraudster and therefore didnt fulfil 
Ms Ss instruction. I appreciate theyre  unable to check all different types of ID they accept 
but having made the business  decision  to accept ID in this way, this can be the 
consequence.
I cant explain how the fake recipient knew the 8-digit code  to allow  them to pick up the 
money but I have suggested to MoneyGram this could be something they need to look at 
further.
This case has been open for a long time and MoneyGram has been  given plenty of 
opportunity to sort things out and do the right thing. They havent done so. This has added  
unnecessarily to the delays Ms S has suffered. I feel MoneyGram  should  pay her £100  for 
the inconvenience shes had.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  MoneyGram International Limited, 
trading as MoneyGram, to:
Refund £550 to Ms S for the payment they paid out incorrectly;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 25 October 2017  to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay £100 to Ms S for the inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3011381