K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Evergreen Finance London Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans Evergreen  provided  to Mr G between  December 
2016 and March 2017. Mr Gs lending history  is as follows:
Loan one: £200 taken  out in December 2016  and repaid  in four instalments  of 
£76.75. The loan was repaid in March 2017.
Loan two: £400  taken  out in March 2017  and repaid in three instalments of £200.51. 
The loan was repaid in June 2017.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and thought  loans one and two shouldnt  have 
been given. Evergreen didnt reply  to the adjudicators view,  so the complaint was passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Evergreen should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN30328072I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Evergreen was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Evergreen said it asked  Mr G for his monthly  income, which he said was £1,500 for loan one 
and £1,620 for loan two, and for his expenditure. It also carried  out a credit  check. This 
check showed that Mr G large outstanding debts and hed opened  21 accounts in the six 
months prior to loan one and 35 accounts  in the six months  before  loan two. So I think this 
should have prompted Evergreen  to ask further questions  about Mr Gs finances,  specifically 
about his other short  term borrowing, to check that he could make his repayments 
sustainably. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans one and two would most likely 
have shown that:
Mr G had £2,135  other short term financial commitments that were  due for 
repayment after loan one was taken out. 
 
These outstanding  short term financial commitments remained the same for loan two. 
These existing commitments exceeded  Mr Gs declared income  and as a responsible 
lender Evergreen  shouldnt have agreed to lend to him. 
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans one and two and Evergreen should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Evergreen needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans one and two
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one and two from Mr Gs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to take off tax from this interest. Evergreen 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN30328073my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.  
Evergreen Finance  London Limited should pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3032807