K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of their escape  of 
water claim, on their buildings insurance policy.
When I refer to UKI Im also referring  to any of their appointed representatives.
background 
Mr and Mrs R had an escape of water in their house  in 2010. The claim and subsequent  
repairs have been  ongoing since that time and our service has looked at previous complaints 
from Mr and Mrs R in 2012 and 2016. 
The circumstances of the claim and previous complaints are well known to both parties and I 
dont think it would be beneficial to mention all of the previous problems that have occurred.  
As previous complaints  have been  looked at by our service, I will only focus on whats  
happened since our service last assessed the handling of the claim in 2016 and the issues  
that are still outstanding.
Mr and Mrs R were still living in alternative  accommodation in 2016. They had been  since 
2010. UKI were keen  to get Mr and Mrs R back home but there were still many issues  to be 
worked through before that could happen.  Our investigator helped to mediate a resolution to 
many of the issues so that Mr and Mrs Rs house  was habitable again. As those issues were  
resolved some months  ago I wont mention them within this decision.
Having returned  back home, Mr and Mrs R had five main areas of concern remaining. These 
were:
they didnt  think the independent  surveyor appointed in 2016 had acted in 
accordance with his instructions;
the snagging issues as a result  of the building work;
the reinstatement of their rear garden. It had been left unattended  for nine years and 
was severely overgrown;
the reinstatement of their window dressings such as blinds and curtains;
compensation for the inconvenience of being in alternative accommodation for a long 
period of time. 
Mr and Mrs R supplied quotes to have the garden restored and for their window dressings to 
be replaced. But UKI didnt agree with the quotes as they felt they were putting                    
Mr and Mrs R in a better  position. There was also a problem  with the snagging  works  as    
Mr R had a disagreement  with UKIs contractors and refused to allow them to complete the 
work. 
As the relationship between Mr and Mrs R and UKI had broken down, UKI said they would 
be offering Mr and Mrs R a cash settlement to enable them to get the work done themselves. 
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  with this, along  with UKIs suggested settlements for the garden 
and window dressings. So they asked our investigator to review it.
Our investigator agreed with UKI that a cash settlement for the outstanding snagging works 
was the best way to move  it forward. She said that it was clear the relationship  had broken 
down and she felt asking UKI to appoint new contractors at this late stage could lead to 
further complications. 
Ref: DRN36128652With regard to the window dressings, she felt UKIs proposal was fair. Theyd agreed to pay 
50% of the quote received  as there was no evidence of what  was on the windows at the time 
of the claim. This amounted to £4,215.95.
The garden quotes were assessed by our investigator. She recommended  a total pay-out of 
£12,854.24 for reinstatement works. 
The independent surveyor appointed had refused to give his opinion  on some of the 
questions raised  by Mr and Mrs R, as they were about some  of the internal fittings which  
were outside  of his expertise. Our investigator said that it was reasonable for the surveyor  to 
do this and that hed acted as expected  in all areas that he could look into. 
Our investigator also recommended total compensation  of £650 for Mr and Mrs Rs 
inconvenience as well as £250 costs for the cost of hiring a skip to dispose  of rubbish. 
UKI accepted these  recommendations  and sent Mr and Mrs R a cheque for £17,470.19. 
Theyd already  paid £500 in compensation earlier during the claim process  and included  the 
additional £150 in this settlement. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the proposal. They  didnt want  
a cash settlement and they disagreed with the amounts  offered for the internal fittings as well 
as the garden  reinstatement. Mr and Mrs R had received quotes for close  to £70,000 to 
reconstruct their garden. They  were also unhappy with the amount of compensation 
recommended.
As Mr and Mrs R didnt  agree, its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Offering to cash settle a claim  is one of the options available to UKI. So I cant  say that its 
wrong to do this to resolve the snagging  issues. But I do have to decide  if its a reasonable 
thing for UKI to do. And in this case I think it is. 
The claim and subsequent repairs have been ongoing for nine years and its to be expected 
that there  will be some disagreement during that time. But Mr R took the decision  to remove 
UKIs contractors from his house  and requested that they arent  asked to oversee the 
snagging works. There has been  claim  and counter-claim between both parties and its clear 
from the correspondence Ive seen that there is distrust towards each other now. By 
agreeing the final Schedule of Works  and accepting UKIs cash settlement, Mr R now has 
the opportunity  to get the outstanding repairs completed by contractors of his own choosing. 
This should give him the peace of mind after all this time that the work will be carried  out to 
the standard he expects and wants. 
The situation  with the garden is a difficult one and I understand Mr and Mrs Rs frustrations 
regarding this. They received a letter in 2015 explaining that the garden would be maintained 
to its pre-loss condition . And they dont think UKI are adhering  to this and they dont  think  
our investigators recommendation went far enough. Mr and Mrs R have provided quotes  
from three gardening companies which are way in excess of what UKI are now settling for. 
Ref: DRN36128653But the quotes provided are for a complete garden reconstruction, including additional 
sheds.
Mr and Mrs R have only been able to provide one photo of their garden in its pre-loss 
condition and this only shows  a small section of it. From the photo, Mr and Mrs Rs garden 
looks like a normal family one. There isnt anything to suggest  that a garden reconstruction 
would be needed  to restore it to how it was before Mr and Mrs R went  into alternative 
accommodation. Our investigator has been through the latest garden quote thoroughly and 
has pointed out to Mr and Mrs R and to UKI exactly what  should and shouldnt be covered. I 
have no reason to disagree with her. Its clear  that a lot of work is needed to Mr and Mrs Rs 
garden as it hasnt been maintained for many years  now but the revised amount agreed by 
UKI is fair to get this work done.  
Mr and Mrs R and UKI have a similar disagreement with the internal window blinds and 
curtains. Mr R has provided a quote  to fit made-to-measure curtains  and blinds throughout 
the house. But UKI are in dispute  about this and have offered to pay 50% of the total quote. 
They have said that the curtains and blinds that were in place at the time of the claim werent  
made-to-measure and to agree to this now would put Mr and Mrs R in a better  position.  I 
have to agree with UKI here. I have seen photos  of some of the fittings that were in place  at 
Mr and Mrs Rs house. They look like standard blinds and curtains. And there isnt anything  
to show me that made-to-measure  curtains or blinds  were  fitted  anywhere else in the house. 
Based on the limited  evidence available to me I think  that UKIs offer to settle 50% of the 
total quote is reasonable.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about  the independent surveyor  and the role hes 
taken since 2016.  But Im satisfied that hes given his decisions on all areas within  his 
expertise. He was asked  some questions about  some internal fittings which  he declined to 
answer as they werent within his specialised area. Thats what I would expect  him to do. 
Had he given Mr and Mrs R his decision on these areas without  the necessary expertise 
then it could have  led to further  problems  and delays in moving the claim forward.
Mr and Mrs R havent accepted the £650 compensation recommended  by the investigator. 
Mr R has said that their mileage per day increased  as they both had further  to travel to work  
from the alternative accommodation.  And Mr R also had to take their dogs to the kennels 
every morning on his way to work. They dont feel the £650 is a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience and stress theyve been  caused. 
When the alternative accommodation  was being looked into, Mr and Mrs R needed 
somewhere that would allow  their dogs to go with them. Sometimes alternative 
accommodation will be outside  of the area that people live in, but I dont  think its 
unreasonable to expect  that. And it was important for Mr and Mrs R that the accommodation 
allowed their dogs  to stay too. It was unfortunate that the dogs didnt settle, but UKI has 
been fair in paying for the kennel  fees while Mr and Mrs R were away from their house. I 
dont think it would be fair to expect  UKI to cover  the additional cost of travelling to and from 
the kennels as well. They found  Mr and Mrs R a place to stay that accepted dogs and 
subsequently paid for the kennel fees  I dont  think its reasonable to also expect  UKI to 
cover the cost of any additional mileage incurred. Its not the fault of UKI that Mr and Mrs Rs 
dogs were unable  to settle  in the new house.  
Also, Im only looking at whats happened since our service last looked at the case in 2016. 
And since that time Mr R caused a number of the delays and prevented some of the work 
being done as quickly as it could  have been. This caused UKI to continue to pay for the 
Ref: DRN36128654alternative accommodation for longer  than it may have been necessary.  So while UKI also 
caused some delays during this time, Im satisfied that £650 is the right amount to 
compensate Mr and Mrs R.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I uphold this complaint. Im telling  U K Insurance  Limited to:
arrange a cash settlement  for Mr and Mrs R following all parties  agreement  to the 
final Schedule  of Works  produced;
pay £12,854.24 to enable reinstatement  of Mr and Mrs Rs garden;
pay £4215.95  to cover 50% of the total cost to Mr and Mrs R to replace their blinds  
and curtains;
pay £250 for the cost of a skip;
pay Mr and Mrs R a total of £650  in compensation (£500 has already been  paid).
Im aware that U K Insurance Limited  has already sent Mr and Mrs R a cheque  for 
£17,470.19 to cover the above costs. All that remains is for the cash  settlement  to be paid to 
Mr and Mrs R, if that hasnt been arranged while the case has been waiting for a decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3612865