K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited wont pay their 
home insurance claim for water damage  from their shower.
background
In September  2018, whilst in the process of renovating their bathroom  Mr and Mrs D 
discovered substantial  water damage after removal  of the shower and shower tray. They  
reported this to Lloyds who sent out a contractor to review the damage.  As the area had 
been stripped  out the contractor wasnt able to give an exact  cause for the water leak but 
thought it was possibly the seal around  the shower tray waste, silicon  seal and possibly wall 
tiling. 
He said that the evidence  showed that the damage  had been happening for some  time. He 
said that the fact of the area being  stripped out showed  that Mr and Mrs D knew there was a 
problem. He also said that there was clear evidence of water  damage in the area, 
particularly the timber plinth beneath  the shower and staining of the ceiling.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said the claim was excluded under the terms of the policy as it 
was a gradually operating cause which had happened over a period of time.  It further 
pointed out that all the areas had been  stripped away and the policy  makes  clear that they 
shouldnt throw away damaged items before it had had the chance to inspect them.
Mr and Mrs D pointed out that they had only discovered the damage once they had done the 
strip out, and they hadnt thrown any items away. They felt they had a clear claim for escape 
of water or flood under the policy.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably. He 
explained that this was on the basis of this being a gradual cause rather than any inability to 
detect the cause of the damage. He also said in light of in particular the staining of the 
ceiling the damage would have been able to be detected by Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D said the very nature of a leak is gradual and it should have been covered  
under the policy.  They  said that because they believed the contractors report  was wrong, all 
they wanted was for Lloyds to send  out a PCC (personal claims consultant) to give a second 
opinion. This had been refused by Lloyds.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to the claim 1. whether the damage was covered under the policy  and 
2. whether Lloyds  acted  reasonably in applying an exclusion.
cause of damage
The contractor sent out by Lloyds  wasnt able to say what  the exact  cause of the damage  
was. He thought it was likely to be from possibly the seal around the shower  tray waste,  
Ref: DRN30705092silicon seal and possibly  wall tiling. He wasnt able to be more definitive  about this as the 
area had been  stripped out. The point of being  able to look at the damaged  area would be to 
see whether there was any obvious  damage  to the shower  seals  in situ or whether it was 
more hidden eg in a pipe under the shower.  
I think its fair to say that the damage would have been covered under the escape of water 
term in the policy.  I understand Mr and Mrs Ds point that they didnt discover the damage  
until theyd stripped out the area. If the claim had been declined  on the grounds only that the 
cause of the damage couldnt be ascertained I think that would have been unfair.
exclusion
There is an exclusion in the policy, which Lloyds is relying on to decline the claim. This is:
Any loss or damage  caused by:
A gradually operating cause. This is something  that happens gradually over a period
of time, for example  corrosion, damp,  condensation, decay or decomposition.
The water damage affected  the area under the shower, the laminate floor and the skirting 
board. There was heavy  staining visible on the ceiling below. I think  this shows  that the 
damage had been  happening  for some  time so was something that happened gradually.  It 
does in my view come under the exclusion.
As Mr and Mrs D have  pointed out most damage due to leaking pipes or seals would happen  
gradually. So we also consider whether it was fair for the insurer  to apply the exclusion. Our 
approach is that we would  consider it fair to apply it if the damage that had been happening 
over a period  of time was evident. Here whilst damage under the shower or the floor might  
not have been evident, I think  from the photos  that the heavy staining on the ceiling would 
have been. And Mr and Mrs D say they had previously experienced issues  which they 
thought were the result of water  escaping from the shower cubicle.
So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to apply  the exclusion.
contractors conduct
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with the contractors conduct. They  thought hed been 
unprofessional, felt he didnt want to listen and was making things up. Lloyds apologised if 
they felt that way. I dont think I need to recommend  any further action  in that respect.  The 
contractor was expressing his opinions but I can understand if Mr and Mrs D felt their 
concerns werent  listened to. However I dont think it justifies  having another assessment.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30705093
Ref: DRN3070509