K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt  treat him fairly  at the end of his interest 
only mortgage. In particular, it didnt agree to extend  the term for five years.
background
Mr M took out an interest  only mortgage in 2005.  The term ended in August 2018. Mr M 
asked Barclays to extend the mortgage term for five years. He wants  to make  monthly  
payments to reduce the mortgage balance before selling the property.
Mr M says Barclays has been intimidating.  He says it asked for evidence  hes put his house 
up for sale and threatened litigation.  
Barclays said Mr M has equity in the property and could sell it now. When  he took out the 
mortgage, his repayment strategy  was to sell the property. Barclays said it would allow Mr M 
a maximum of 12 months to sell the property. Hed have to provide evidence, such as details 
of estate agents, and there would be quarterly reviews. 
Our investigator said Mr M didnt have a credible plan to repay  the mortgage other than by 
selling the property. She said there  didnt seem  to be any reason why Mr M couldnt sell the 
property now. The investigator said a 12 months  extension was reasonable. If Mr M didnt 
want to sell the property,  he should  seek independent financial advice to see what other 
options are available. 
Mr M didnt  agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
Mr M asked  why Barclays had deemed  an interest  only mortgage to be suitable for him and, 
in response to the investigators view, asked  for this to be looked into. The investigator 
suggested Mr M raise this with Barclays and Ill leave  it to Mr M to decide whether to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The term of Mr Ms interest only mortgage expired in August 2018.  He asked Barclays to 
extend the mortgage term for five years.
Since Mr M took out his mortgage, regulations  have  changed.  Before  offering a new loan or 
making changes  to an existing loan, Barclays has to make  more  stringent checks of 
affordability and, in the case  of interest only mortgages, the repayment  strategy.  However, 
Barclays doesnt need to do this if the change (here an extension  of the mortgage term) 
would be in Mr Ms best interests.  
Barclays provided its notes. I can see that Mr M and Barclays  discussed repayment  of the 
mortgage in 2018, after the term ended.  Barclays said switching to a repayment  mortgage 
wasnt affordable for Mr M. There wasnt  enough  equity in the property  for Mr M to refinance  
the mortgage with an equity release loan. Mr M told Barclays he intended to work for another 
Ref: DRN35771792five years.  He said he runs his business  from the property. Barclays notes also say Mr M 
hoped property prices  would increase. 
I can see that there were  reasons for Mr M wanting  to postpone the sale of the property. He 
could continue to work,  running his business  from the property. This would  allow him to 
make regular payments  to reduce  the mortgage balance. Mr M made  payments that reduced 
the mortgage balance from about  £62,000  in July 2018 to £57,000 in September  2019.  If he 
could maintain this over five years hed make  real inroads into the debt. He could  then sell 
the property and have a lower mortgage  balance to pay from the proceeds.  Or an equity 
release loan might then be available. 
However, Barclays pointed out that the terms of Mr Ms residential mortgage dont allow him 
to run a business there. Mr M says he no longer runs a business from the property. 
While the nature of his work is physical, Mr M says he expects to be able to continue  for 
another five years. Mr M has been  unable to work for a few months due to health  reasons. 
Hes receiving his state pension and making mortgage payments from his savings.
what should happen now?
Mr M borrowed the money and does  have to repay it. As a starting point, it was reasonable 
for Barclays to expect Mr M to repay  the mortgage  loan at the end of its term, in August 
2018. 
However, Mr M cant repay the loan without selling the property,  which he doesnt  want  to do 
at this time.  Other options  such as switching to a repayment mortgage or equity release  
arent available to him. Mr M said hed like the term extended for five years and explained 
why he thought this would  benefit him. I think Barclays should  have  considered whether 
extending Mr Ms mortgage would be in his best interests and I dont think its demonstrated 
that it did this. However, had it done  so, I think the outcome would have been the same.
Mr M has equity  in the property. He says it was last valued at £110,000. The mortgage 
balance is about  £57,000. Mr M intends to sell the property in the future and move in with his 
partner  he hasnt  said this isnt an option  now. Mr M says he no longer runs his business 
from the property, so selling the property wont affect his ability to work. 
I need to take into account that there would be risks in extending the term of Mr Ms 
mortgage. Mr M wont necessarily be able to reduce the balance with income from working, 
as his current circumstances show. At the moment Mr M is using  savings to make his 
monthly payments.  And the value of the property could fall, leaving Mr M in a worse position. 
Mr Ms strategy to repay the mortgage  the sale of the property  wont change if the term is 
extended. So the extension will only delay  the sale and, potentially, risk putting Mr M into a 
worse position. After careful  consideration, I dont think its clear that this would be in Mr Ms 
best interests.
Barclays agreed to allow  Mr M up to 12 months to sell the property. It says there  will be 
quarterly reviews and it needs  evidence  such as contact details for the estate agents. I 
dont think this is unreasonable  and Id encourage Mr M to stay in contact with Barclays 
during the sales  process. 
Ref: DRN35771793Mr M found Barclays letters about possible legal action upsetting.  I understand this. But at 
the time,  there was an unpaid balance outstanding and no agreement about  how this would 
be repaid. Barclays agreed  to put recovery action on hold while we looked into Mr Ms 
complaint. And Id expect it to hold recovery action  for the next 12 months, so long as Mr M 
stays in regular  contact and provides the evidence it asks for about the sale of the property.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3577179