K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
by Desira Group Plc (Desira) when she took out a loan to purchase a car. 
background
Miss F bought a car from Desira in May 2007 and took out a loan through  the business to 
make the purchase. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy to cover her repayments to 
the loan in certain circumstances.  
Miss F complained that the PPI was mis-sold but Desira didnt agree to uphold the 
complaint. So Miss F brought  the complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. Desira  still didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Fs complaint.
Desira has indicated it has no records from the time of the sale as these have  been  
destroyed in line with data protection requirements  as it was some years  ago the loan was 
taken out and PPI sold.  
I have been provided with the first two pages of the loan application form by Miss F. This 
shows that she had to sign separately to buy the PPI. It also shows the finance  information 
for what Miss F borrowed to buy the car. This shows the monthly  payment for the car loan 
and interest on that was £268.94. But the pages  of the agreement Ive seen do not give any 
indication of the costs of the PPI. 
The finance  company providing the loan does  not have any of the documentation from the 
time but has been  able to provide details of the loan account showing all the borrowings, 
monthly payments  and total costs during the 60 months the loan was running. 
This information indicates that Miss F paid a total of £314.66 each month for her loan 
repayments. Of this £268.94  was for her car loan borrowings  without the PPI, as Ive 
indicated above.  The PPI cost per month, for the premium and interest, was £45.72 and 
formed part of the £314.66 monthly  payment. 
Other than the 2 pages of the loan agreement  and the loan statement detail from the finance  
company there is very little information  available about the point of sale and loan account. 
Although Desira has been unable to provide any documentation it says its sale processes 
are such  that it would have presented all the facts  and figures very clearly in accordance  
with its compliance directive.
Desira feels unhappy  that assumptions are being made over what was and wasnt  discussed 
when the PPI was sold.  It says as it is so long ago since the sale that it is reasonable it has 
destroyed its paperwork and it feels it should not be penalised for that. Desira also says its 
Ref: DRN35547022reputation, with the number of complaints brought against it for PPI mis-sale, indicates  it 
doesnt have poor or bad practices.  
Miss F however says she recalls being provided  with little or no information about the PPI 
when taking out her loan.  But says she was told she needed  to take out the PPI to obtain the 
loan for her car purchase.
I have no recorded  information or evidence from either party about what was actually said at 
the time and during the meeting.  The only clear  information I do have is that in the partial  
loan document  and the loan account statement from the finance company. I have to make  a 
decision about what most likely happened  based  on the information available to me. Neither 
the testimony of Miss F nor the business is very persuasive about what was actually said at 
the meeting when the policy was sold. So I am placing  more reliance on the documentation I 
have available  to reach a decision. 
I am satisfied Miss F bought a PPI policy and that the monthly cost of this, for both premium 
and interest was £45.72. And as the loan ran to the 60 month term she paid a total of 
£2,743.20 for the PPI. The finance company  indicates the total cost was £2,743.20 and also 
using the monthly  payment for PPI of £45.72 and multiplying by the 60 month term I am 
satisfied that is the total cost for the PPI including interest. 
Page 1 of the loan agreement sets out various  financial  figures  related to the loan but makes  
no reference to the cost of the PPI. Page  2 is the signature page where Miss F signed to 
take out the car loan,  signed separately to take out the PPI and also signed to take out an 
additional insurance. 
I think it was clear Miss F had a choice whether or not to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. From the information  provided  it seems Miss F met all the basic criteria to be 
eligible to take out the policy, such as her age and being in employment.
I cant be sure Miss F clearly understood all of the restrictions that applied to the PPI as I do 
not know what was discussed and what was contained in the documents  provided to Miss F.  
So its possible the information she had when choosing to take out the policy  wasnt  as clear  
as it could have  been. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest  she would have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. Miss F had no pre-existing  medical  conditions  or unusual 
employment conditions  that would have  affected  the benefits she could have obtained. So 
even if the information about the terms and conditions wasnt  as clear as it could have been, 
I dont think full and clear information  would  have affected her decision to take out the policy.
The main  issue remaining is the cost and benefits  of the policy.  These needed to be made  
clear to Miss F at the point of sale so she understood how much the premium was and how 
much the overall  cost would be, as interest would be charged on the premium as it was 
added to the loan. 
Information about the PPI costs was not included on Page 1 of the loan agreement  and this 
was the page immediately  prior to the signature page. So Im not satisfied from what  Ive 
seen that clear costs  information was provided. As this cost information wasnt clear on the 
agreement, I cannot  be certain she was actually given this information in a clear way that 
she understood. 
Ref: DRN35547023Therefore as I cannot be satisfied the costs  information was made clear to Miss F when she 
was making her decision to buy the PPI. So I think it was mis-sold. 
I understand that Desira says all information including the cost would have been given at the 
meeting as it always was. But without any evidence  this was provided  in a clear  way, as it 
wasnt on the page with the car loan financial  information, I cannot be sure it was given to 
Miss F.
Desira feel it is unfair that assumptions are being made. But in complaints where the 
evidence is limited, reasonable  assumptions must be made  based  on the evidence that is 
available. 
compensation
As I am upholding  this complaint Desira must  pay compensation to put Miss F to put her in 
the position, as far as possible, that she would have  been in if she had never bought the PPI. 
This means  refunding all the costs  she paid for the PPI and also paying 8% simple  interest  
for any time Miss F was out of pocket.
To assist Desira I have  had a calculation undertaken.  The monthly repayment was £45.72 
and the total costs she paid for the PPI was £2,743.20. Miss F was out of pocket for each 
payment she made from the date the payment was made until Desira  makes the final 
settlement payment to her. And she is entitled  to compensatory  interest of 8% simple on the 
payments for this whole period. 
The total gross 8% simple  interest up to 31 March 2020 is £2,265.47. Tax at 20%,  which has 
to be deducted  as required by HM Revenue and Customs, is £453.09. So the net 
compensatory interest  is £1,812.38. If Miss F has any issues about  the tax she would need 
to take this up with HM Revenue and Customs and request a certificate for the tax deducted 
from Desira 
If Desira makes the payment by 31 March  2020 the total compensation due to Miss F will be 
£4,555.58 after tax. This includes  a refund of the costs of the PPI of £2,743.20 plus 8% 
interest of £2265.47  less tax of £453.09. 
For every  day after 31 March 2020  until Desira pays the compensation, it will need  to add 
£0.60, less tax of £0.12 giving a net amount of £0.48  per day until the date of actual 
payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out I think the PPI was mis-sold and I am telling Desira Group PLC to 
pay compensation to Miss F as Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN35547024Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Christine Fraser
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554702