K820x#14complaint and background
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him two 
packaged bank  accounts. He says that the costs and benefits werent properly explained, 
and that he hasnt benefited  from the accounts.  In addition, he says he didnt consent to the 
second upgrade,  and that he wasnt notified  of increases in account fees by NatWest.
Ive attached my provisional decision from October 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out the reasons why I was not planning to 
uphold this complaint.  I asked both Mr B and NatWest to let me have  any more 
information they wanted me to consider. Theyve  each confirmed they have no further  
submissions to make.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has given any additional  
comments or evidence, I have no reason to depart from my provisional findings. It therefore  
follows that I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, I dont uphold this complaint and NatWest doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36015142copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  him two packaged bank  
accounts. He says that the costs and benefits werent properly explained, and that he hasnt 
benefited from the accounts.  In addition, he says he didnt consent to the second upgrade,  and that 
he wasnt notified of increases in account fees by NatWest.
background
Mr B had held this particular account  with NatWest  since 1994, but it first became  a paid for 
packaged bank account (PBA) in March 1998, when it was upgraded  to an Advantage Gold 
account. At that time,  the Advantage Gold account cost £8 per month and the key benefits of it were 
travel insurance  and an overdraft facility  with preferential interest rates.
In July 2001 the account was upgraded again  to an Advantage Premier  PBA,  which Mr B says 
happened without him being consulted. It would appear that the PBA cost £150 per annum at the 
time, but the full benefits  cannot be confirmed  due to a lack of information  from 2001. However, what  
is known is that this account came with an automatic overdraft of £2,500 at a preferential  interest 
rate, and that the first £250  of that overdraft was interest free. An Advantage Premier charge  card 
was also a feature, and was indeed  the payment  method for the account  fees.  Given that the 
cheaper NatWest PBAs  at that time came with travel insurance, I think  its more  likely  than not that 
the Advantage Premier  PBA also included  some form of that benefit.
The Advantage  Premier  was renamed Advantage Private  in 2006, and this account  was 
downgraded, and then closed, in 2009.
Mr B complained  to NatWest, but it didnt accept that it had done anything  wrong, so he brought 
his case to this service.  Having looked at the evidence, the adjudicator didnt  think the account  
had been mis-sold  and so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
He doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to review his case  and reach  a final 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally  decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach to considering the 
sale of packaged  bank accounts on our website, which  everyone can read. Ive kept that approach  
in mind when considering this case, and having done so, I am not planning to uphold it. Ill explain 
why.
Sale of the Advantage  Gold PBA
Mr B has not alleged that this upgrade occurred without  his consent. Instead he says that the PBA 
was recommended to him when he went into branch for another purpose, and he was told that this 
PBA was likely to be to [his] benefit. but that it has not been.
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PBA to Mr B, and that it was up to him to check and decide  
whether the account was a reasonable fit for his circumstances. However,  in this case, I dont need 
to make a finding on this point of dispute  as it makes  no difference to the outcome.  I say that 
because I think this PBA was a reasonable fit for Mr B, so even if NatWest  did recommend it, there 
wouldnt be a failing in having done so.
Ref: DRN36015143As set out above, the key benefits of the Advantage Gold PBA were travel insurance and 
preferential interest rates on overdrafts. Mr B has confirmed that he travelled abroad at that time,  
and I can see that he had an overdraft facility. Consequently, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
he couldnt have used and benefited from the features of this account.  Indeed,  he did make savings 
on his overdraft as a result of holding the PBA.
Sale of the Advantage  Premier PBA
Mr B says that he doesnt  remember being consulted about this upgrade, and wonders whether  it 
was done under  the premise of it just being  a name change on the account. Given how long ago this 
took place  more than 18 years  it is not at all surprising  that Mr B doesnt remember  what 
happened. It also isnt surprising that NatWest doesnt hold any substantial information  about  the 
sale. However, NatWest  has been able to give me a summarised record of the lending history on the 
relevant account. Whilst it isnt immediately clear exactly what happened  on any given date, there 
are several  entries  in that record which  very strongly suggest that conversations and changes  were  
taking place surrounding Mr Bs borrowing on 5 July 2001  the same date that the upgrade to this 
PBA took place.
In fact, what  appears  to have  happened in the couple of months before the upgrade, is that Mr B 
significantly increased  his overdraft limit to £4,250. On 5 July 2001,  it shows that this was confirmed 
to continue,  along with a new £6,000  limit on the charge card that was a feature of the Advantage  
Premier PBA. So I think its most likely that Mr B was in need of a fairly  large line of credit and 
discussed the best way to secure that with NatWest. Given  the key banking benefit  of this account   
namely the automatic overdraft with preferential rates   I think its likely that the Advantage  Premier 
PBA was presented, and perhaps even recommended, by NatWest as a way for Mr B to secure  
better value on the borrowing he was seeking.  So I conclude it is more likely than not that NatWest 
did consult Mr B about this upgrade, and that he agreed to it. It seems to me that the basis of that 
was his need  to secure credit, which  he was able to do more easily  and cheaply  with the Advantage 
Premier PBA as opposed to the Advantage Gold.
As I set out in the background section of this decision, I also think its likely that the account  
provided Mr B with a form of travel insurance, which  it would appear could have been of use to him. 
So if NatWest did recommend the Advantage Premier to Mr B, the evidence suggests  that wasnt an 
unreasonable recommendation. In fact, in November  2005 Mr B lodged a travel insurance  claim for a 
loss incurred in October of that year, which seems to have been finally  settled  in August 2007.
Mr B says that he hasnt benefited  from having  either of these accounts,  and that any overdraft  
savings are dwarfed by the account fees he has paid, also highlighting  that he could have 
bought travel  insurance more cheaply. In fact, he says that NatWest should have:
advised [him] that travel insurance  was widely available as a stand-alone product at a 
considerable discount from the charge.
I disagree. NatWest was not providing overarching  financial advice in selling  these PBAs to Mr B: it 
was marketing  its own products, as it is commercially entitled to do. Additionally, the assertion that 
Mr B could have bought annual multi-trip  travel insurance, which provided equivalent cover, for less 
than these account fees, cannot  now be tested. Nor were the account fees solely for that cover, as 
these PBAs came  with a range of different benefits.  Instead, the evidence  shows that Mr B was able 
to rely on and benefit from the key features  of these  PBAs  and if he now considers that he hasnt 
benefited as much as hed hoped, or believes that the travel  insurance was expensive, that isnt in 
itself evidence that NatWest  did anything wrong  in selling  them to him.
Did NatWest give Mr B enough information  to enable him to make informed choices  when 
agreeing to these PBAs?
I havent seen enough evidence  to allow me to reach a finding that NatWest did give Mr B full 
information about these  PBAs. But that doesnt mean I should  automatically uphold  his complaint. I 
Ref: DRN36015144would additionally need  to think that a lack of information has caused him to miss out  that is, that 
he wouldnt have agreed to the PBAs  if hed known more  about them.
That isnt the case here. Ive set out why I think the accounts were broadly a good fit for Mr Bs 
circumstances and I havent  seen  anything  which leads me to conclude that if hed had more  or better  
information about the PBAs he would  have  declined to take them. So he hasnt lost out.
Did NatWest let Mr B know when  the account fees were going to increase?
NatWest was, and is, required to notify customers about changes to accounts   including  any 
associated fees  before that change happens. Mr B says that it didnt do that, notably in 2004 when it 
increased the fee of the Advantage Premier account  to £195 per annum, and again  in 2006 when  it 
increased to £222 per annum.
Unfortunately, NatWest  no longer has records to show that it did let Mr B know what  it was going to 
do  but, again, that isnt surprising given how much time has elapsed.  In fairness to Mr B, Ive 
thought carefully about what decision I would reach if I found that NatWest hadnt done what  it should 
 that is, increased the fee without properly informing  Mr B. As mentioned above, it is enough  for a 
business to have made a mistake for me to uphold  a complaint point. I also need  to be satisfied that 
the consumer has lost out as a result of that mistake. Essentially, here I have to decide  whether  the 
fee increases are likely to have led to Mr B downgrading his PBA either  in 2004 or 2006, as opposed 
to keeping  it until 2009.
By the time of the £45 annual fee increase in 2004, various other benefits  had been added to the 
Advantage Premier  account. Key insurance benefits of home emergency  cover,  and breakdown 
cover were then part of the package, and the travel insurance covered the whole family. Key banking  
benefits of preferential mortgage and loan interest rates, along with preferential  savings interest rates 
were included.  The overdraft  benefit set out above had been slightly enhanced to provide a limit of at 
least £2,500, and the account also came with a relationship  manager. All in all, given that I have 
found that Mr B was willing to pay £150 per annum at the point of sale,  Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest that he would have  decided  not to pay £195 given how many more benefits were now 
included in the PBA. He has confirmed that he owned and drove a car.
In 2006 the annual fee rose by a further £27, to £222. The main addition at that time was mobile 
phone insurance, providing cover for up to four phones  registered at the same address. I have seen  
nothing to make me think Mr B would  have considered that poor value for money  and would have 
therefore chosen to downgrade his account.
So, whether or not NatWest did notify  Mr B about  the account fee increases, Im not persuaded  he 
would have acted differently  in any event  and has therefore lost out financially.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not currently  planning  to uphold this complaint or direct NatWest  to 
do anything.
Both Mr B and NatWest  have until 21 October 2019 to provide me with any further 
comments or evidence before I reach a final decision.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3601514