K821x#15complaint
Ms L says Scottish Widows Limited caused  her severe distress  when handling  the payment 
of death benefits that she was entitled to from her late partners pension.
background
Sadly, Ms Ls partner  passed away in February  2018. Scottish Widows notified her in April 
2018 that the death benefits from his pension would be paid to her, in line with the 
nomination form it held. It asked how she wanted  to receive payment. Ms L opted for income 
drawdown. An account was established in June 2018. The first payment was due to be 
made early the following  month.
Unfortunately, things didnt go to plan. Scottish Widows phoned Ms L on 3 July 2018 to let 
her know  thered been another  claim to her late partners pension by one of his daughters. 
This had to be assessed but ultimately  it decided Ms L was the rightful beneficiary. But the 
delay meant  she didnt receive  her first payment until the end of the month.
Ms L had several  concerns about what had happened. For example, she was informed 
about the new claim on her partners  pension benefits over the phone. The conversation 
developed into probing of her financial dependence  on her partner. Despite seeking updates 
on the position, she wasnt kept up to date with developments. The delay in getting things 
sorted out caused  her financial distress and exacerbated  her mental  health  problems.
Scottish Widows  accepted it had got things wrong.  For example, with regards to the phone  
call it made  to Ms L, it said:
In terms  of how we conducted this discussion, and given  your circumstances, I 
acknowledge the call was not suitable, and for it to become a question session regards [Ms 
Ls partner] and your financial dependency on him, was wholly  inappropriate.
And it acknowledged other failings, for example:
our protocols and deadlines have been  of a poor standard and have left you in a difficult  
and challenging  position.
Scottish Widows  apologised and initially offered  Ms L £350  in recognition of the trouble and 
upset it had caused her. It later increased this to £750. She didnt accept the offer.
The investigator upheld  this case.  He thought  Scottish Widows should increase  its offer by a 
further £500, in particular  to recognise the impact of the delay on Ms L. Neither  party agreed. 
So, Ms Ls complaint  has come to me for a final decision.
As an aside,  I note Ms L has raised concerns about data protection  failings  by Scottish  
Widows. This was the subject of a separate  complaint and so this decision  wont  cover those 
matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators main conclusions for broadly  the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN34576372Im grateful  for Ms Ls detailed testimony.  This has provided me with the context,  chronology 
and circumstances  of her complaint. And it has also helped me to understand the impact of 
situation on her.
I hope Ms L will forgive me in not providing  a detailed response to all the points shes raised. 
Thats deliberate.  Ours  is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. Ive considered  all the evidence  on file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. So, if I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome.
Theres no dispute between the parties that things went  wrong in terms of how Scottish 
Widows dealt with Ms L at a very difficult time in her life. The disagreement here is really  
about what it should do to put things right.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset.  When somethings gone  wrong,  a businesss 
recognition of the emotional and practical  impact can make  a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations.  For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of Scottish  Widows  actions  was greater than just a minor inconvenience  or upset. 
I think it was.
I think the investigator is right when  he concludes Scottish Widows had an obligation to 
review new information  it received  about  another claim on Ms Ls partners  pension  benefits. 
It was taking an irreversible decision about discretionary benefits and it had to make  sure it 
paid any funds to the right person  or people.
Although I can understand why important decisions like this can take time, Ive not seen 
enough from Scottish Widows to show me it treated the matter  with the priority it needed to, 
given what it knew about Ms Ls situation.
Taken together with the failings Scottish Widows has already acknowledged in terms of how 
it dealt with Ms L, its clear to me this experience  did have a significant impact  on her. And 
more so than it wouldve  for most people.
Ms L has been very open about  certain  challenges she faces.  For example, she has 
Asperger Syndrome and mental health issues. She also has auditory processing  disorder.  
Her circumstances  are important to help understand how some of the things that went  wrong  
had a particular  impact on her.
Ms L had informed Scottish  Widows  about her situation. She says:
I set out full details  of my mental health  difficulties I told them  I had been in receipt  of 
Disability Living Allowance  for 9 years following a formal diagnosis  of a permanent disability 
affecting sensory processing/overload,  anxiety, social interactions, comprehension and 
communication 
Ref: DRN34576373Ms L described the impact on her of the delayed pension benefit  payment.  This included 
having to expose herself  to a verbally abusive  relation  to try to secure financial support. She 
was extremely worried about  being in a personal financial crisis, given her former reliance on 
her partner. She had to turn to using a food bank. And her mental health deteriorated despite 
interventions from her GP and the mental  health  crisis  team.
Scottish Widows  cant be held responsible for the circumstances Ms L finds  herself in. But it 
did have a duty of care to her, especially given what it knew about her situation.
As an aside,  in dealing with Ms Ls complaint, Scottish Widows responded positively to her 
request to reimburse  certain costs  incurred by a mentor  whod been  supporting  and 
representing her. I know that help was crucial  to Ms L and Scottish  Widows willingness  to 
recognise that is noteworthy.
The investigator thought Scottish Widows should  pay substantial compensation to Ms L for 
the distress shed been caused. On balance, I see no strong reason to disturb his proposal.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint.
I require Scottish Widows  Limited to pay Ms L £1250 in recognition of the trouble and upset 
it caused her in handling arrangements  for payment of the death benefit she was entitled to 
from her late partners  pension.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3457637