K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF),  has not been of 
satisfactory quality.
background
Mr G took receipt of a used car in February 2018. He financed the deal through  a conditional 
sale agreement with BPF. At the point of supply the car had already completed  a little over 
51,000 miles and was just over three  years  old. 
In August  2018  the car was recovered  to the dealership as there was an engine malfunction. 
It was suggested  that there would need  to be an expensive  engine repair.
Mr G called BPF but they didnt think they were  liable  for the repairs. So Mr G stopped 
paying for the car as he was getting no use from it. BPF defaulted the finance agreement in 
October 2018 when  they continued  to receive  no payments towards the agreement.
They commissioned two independent  inspections of the car. The first suggested  a further 
strip down  of the engine was required to establish  the cause and extent of the fault and the 
second, completed after the engine  was stripped down,  identified that the big end bearing 
had disintegrated.  The engineer said a new engine would be required and that due to the 
amount of time that had passed since purchase and the 6,000 miles that had been 
completed the fault would  not have  been  present or developing at the point of supply.
The dealership suggested that the engine problem  had probably occurred because the oil 
levels hadnt been maintained or topped up at the last service.  
Our adjudicator considered the independent report but whilst he understood the independent 
inspectors view he thought a reasonable person  would not expect a car to suffer a 
catastrophic engine  failure after only 58,000  miles  and 7,000 miles of ownership. He noted  
that the independent engineer hadnt identified the car was short  of oil and that there was no 
evidence to support  the dealerships claim.  He thought  it would therefore  be reasonable for 
BPF to allow  Mr G to reject the car; return his deposit with interest and return two monthly 
finance instalments  in relation to lack of use. He also thought  it was clear Mr G had been  
inconvenienced by these matters so he suggested BPF pay him £200 to compensate him for 
his experience.
BPF didnt  agree with the adjudicator. They said there was no suggestion  the fault was 
present, or developing, at the point of supply  when they were  responsible  for the car. They 
also suggested there was no evidence the car had not proved to be durable as the 
dealership had confirmed the problem was due to a lack of oil in the engine  an issue Mr G 
was responsible for. They therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BPF so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN33223252Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BPF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr G. The car here 
was around three and a half years old and had travelled a little over 51,000  miles at the point  
of supply. It wasnt an old car but I think a reasonable person would expect  a little wear and 
tear.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I understand that the independent inspector has suggested it is probable the big end fault 
wasnt developing when  Mr G took receipt  of the car. I dont doubt his expert opinion.
However, I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car to suffer such catastrophic  
failure after less than 60,000 miles had been  completed  and after the consumer had only 
driven 7,000 miles. I dont think the car can be considered to have been  suitably durable and 
for that reason I think its fair to say it hasnt been  of satisfactory quality  and BPF should 
therefore allow Mr G to reject the car.
Whilst the dealership  have suggested the problem  occurred  because of oil starvation  I 
havent seen evidence of that and I think if that had been the problem the independent 
inspectors would have mentioned it. So Im not persuaded  there  is sufficient evidence  the 
car failed  because Mr G had not looked after it.
In those circumstances I therefore  agree with the adjudicators opinion.  Its clear Mr G has 
been inconvenienced by these issues and I agree that BPF should therefore pay him £200 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
They should  also return his deposit  and pay interest  on that deposit as Mr G has been 
deprived of the money whilst he has been  financing the car.
Mr G also tells us he has been experiencing problems with the car from June 2018  when he 
noticed the engine was rattling. Im persuaded that was likely  given  the extent of the 
eventual failure. Hes also had to be recovered to the dealership and has experienced delays 
in getting the car fixed. In those circumstances I would agree with the adjudicator  that BPF 
Ref: DRN33223253should refund two monthly instalments prior to the August 2018 breakdown and they should  
not seek payment  for any instalments since the car failed in August 2018 as Mr G hasnt had 
use of it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay and collect the car at no cost to Mr G;
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Gs credit file in relation to 
this issue, including  the default;
pay Mr G £200  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been  
caused;
refund  two monthly instalments  for loss of use and do not pursue payment of any 
instalments due since the car failed in August  2018. If any have been  paid BPF 
should return them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3322325