K820x#14complaint
Mrs G and Mrs F complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) shouldnt have 
declined part of a claim made on Mrs Gs caravan insurance policy.  
background
Mrs G told RSA in March  2018 that the caravan had been badly damaged during a storm. A 
skylight had been  torn off and water had entered the vehicle, making  it uninhabitable. RSA 
paid her for the skylight and the damage  it thought had arisen from that. But Mrs G also 
wanted to claim for other damage  to the caravan, plus the ground rent charges that 
continued to be made  whilst the caravan  couldnt  be used. 
RSA said although  it had agreed to deal with part of Mrs Gs claim, it wasnt going to 
reimburse her for the ground rent. It said the policy only covered that if the caravan couldnt 
be lived in due to damage that was covered under it (such as storm damage). RSA said it 
wasnt the storm damage that made  the caravan uninhabitable. It said that was caused by 
wear and tear (especially  failed seals) that had developed over time, allowing water  seepage  
into the caravan  and its structure.  
After Mrs G and Mrs F complained to this service, one of our investigators issued a view on 
their complaint. He thought RSA had acted reasonably. He noted that an independent 
inspection by a firm of loss adjustors (firm L) had found that most of the damage was due 
to wear and tear. He said the caravan was 26 years old and that no maintenance had been 
carried out on it since Mrs G took ownership. Some work was done to a side panel  in 2015 
(for a previous owner). The investigator said there was no evidence of faulty  workmanship, 
as Mrs G had suggested.  He noted  that Mrs G said she was pressured into accepting RSAs  
offer, but in his view there was nothing to show that was the case.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA accepted that some of the damage  to the caravan resulted from the storm. It offered 
Mrs G £2,931 for that. The offer was based on the opinion  it got from firm L. Firm L said 
water coming through the missing skylight into the kitchen had leaked into the cupboards  
and damaged the area around the hob. Firm L found no storm damage  to the roof panel in 
the lounge, but it said the roof skin had deteriorated  over time and the sealant had failed, 
allowing water in. It said there was also evidence of failed  sealant to the roof panel  above 
the master bedroom, where there  was mould and minor water stains  in the ceiling.
 
Firm L said the movement of a side panel  to the lounge wasnt  consistent with storm 
damage, and found excessive missing or failed sealant to it. In firm Ls view, the caravan 
was in poor condition generally and required maintenance to all its seams and seals.  
After firm Ls initial  report, Mrs G asked a repairer (firm T) to inspect the damage. Firm T 
produced an estimate that was in line with the sum firm L had recommended  RSA should 
pay to cover the storm damage. Its second  estimate  was for the other  damage,  including  the 
side panel. But firm T didnt say the other damage  was caused by the storm. It said the side 
Ref: DRN38900282panel had rotted away  and that even its inside parts showed rusting.  It seems  Mrs G was 
unable to get other firms  to quote  for the side panel damage.  
I think it was reasonable  for RSA to rely on the view of firm L, which  appears to have carried 
out a thorough review of the damage. Firm Ts findings seem to be in line with the findings  of 
firm L. Although it didnt comment on the storm, I think its fair to say that rotting and rusting 
are processes that develop over time. So I dont think Mrs G and Mrs F have been able to 
show that the side panel damage was caused  by the storm. Neither  firm L nor firm T made 
any reference to the repairs  carried out in 2015  being of poor quality, either.  
The policy doesnt  cover  damage arising  from seepage of water through external seams and 
seals, or wear and tear. Unfortunately, thats what appears to have caused most of the 
damage in this case. RSA accepts that the caravan isnt fit to live in. But it doesnt  agree that 
it ended  up in that state due to the limited storm damage that occurred. 
The policy only covers the reimbursement of ground  rent if a consumer cant  use the 
caravan due to an insured event. As wear and tear isnt covered by the policy, it follows  that 
in this case, theres no basis for RSA to cover any ground rent charges for Mrs G. She also 
thought RSA should pay for emergency accommodation for her familys  planned caravan 
holiday shortly after the damage was reported.  But that cover only applies under the policy if 
a consumer is staying  in the caravan when  the damage occurs.  
Its clear that Mrs G has had to deal with severe  ill-health during the time the claim and the 
complaint have been ongoing. Its often very difficult for an average consumer to have a 
claim rejected when theyre  sure its valid. So it must have been much  more distressing for 
Mrs G, given her personal circumstances. Despite my great  sympathy for Mrs G and her 
situation, I dont  think she and Mrs F have shown that RSA acted unreasonably in declining  
part of the claim. For that reason, I cant uphold their complaint.    
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3890028