K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a lifestages repayment  cover (LSRC) policy  taken out in 2009.  Mr S 
says St Andrews Insurance plc (St Andrews) mis-sold him the LSRC policy.
A different business sold this policy, but St Andrews  has accepted responsibility for the sale. 
Because of this, St Andrews has also agreed  it is responsible for the complaint. So, Ive 
referred to St Andrews  as the seller in my decision.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the LSRC policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
I would like to clarify  that the LSRC policy is not a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
This is because, although it looks similar to PPI, there are some key differences  which  mean 
it is not classed  as PPI. For example, consumers were able to select their own benefit  level 
regardless of their loan repayment amount and any benefit was paid to the consumer not the 
lender. But our approach to mis-sale complaint are still nevertheless relevant. Weve  set out 
our general  approach  to mis-sale complaints  on our website  and published some  example 
final decisions that set out in detail  how these relevant considerations may apply to sales like 
Mr Ss. I havent set out that detailed information  here, but Ive taken into account all relevant 
considerations in deciding  Mr Ss complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think St Andrews made  it clear  that Mr S didnt have to take out the LSRC  and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because Mr S was sold the policy  over the telephone after his 
loan had already been  agreed   so, I think it was clear that the policy  was optional. St 
Andrews has also provided a copy of the script  that was in use at the time.  I think its 
Ref: DRN31480762likely the sale followed this script. The script  explicitly refers  to the policy  as optional and 
seeks to obtain  the consent of the customer to set up the policy.
I think St Andrews recommended the LSRC  to Mr S as Ive seen a demands  and needs 
assessment it prepared and it also made a recommendation for Mr S to take the LSRC. 
So, it had to check that the LSRC  was right for him. And the evidence about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. For example, Mr S was eligible for the cover  and although  he had 
existing means he still seems to have  had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ss employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr S says he had a medical condition and suffered an 
injury some  years before the LSRC  was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for 
St Andrews  to have  recommended it. I say this because Mr S hasnt told us he needed 
any time off work for the medical condition and he also hasnt said he had any ongoing  
issues with his injury once he recovered  from it. So, I dont think  these made the policy  
unsuitable. 
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr S about the LSRC wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr S as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably  thought he was buying  from the information  he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr S would have declined the 
cover had St Andrews  done  anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite  its limitations,  
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some  good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr S would have  still taken out LSRC.  I think the policy  could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  for all PPI cases it represents. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant St Andrews should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim. But, as explained  above, this is not a PPI policy. So, Ive only 
considered points which I consider to be relevant to the type of policy being complained of.
In any event, Mr Ss representative  has not said how these points  apply to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ss particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
Ref: DRN31480763all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means  St Andrews doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148076