K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that the vehicle she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by FirstRand Bank  Limited  trading as MotoNovo  Finance was not of satisfactory quality. She 
also complains the vehicles service history  was misrepresented. She wants to end the 
agreement and reject  the vehicle.
background
Miss G tells us she acquired  the vehicle in October 2018 through a dealer Ill refer to as J. 
She says the vehicle  was advertised  as having had a recent service and that the dealer had 
also told her it had been fully serviced.  She explains that the vehicle exhibited problems from 
an early stage with tyre pressure warnings and the heating only working  intermittently. In 
addition she says its suffered two breakdowns  in December  2018 and January 2019. The 
latter of which was so serious that she states shes been unable to use the vehicle since. 
And shes had to have  it towed to her home. Miss G also explains that the loss of the vehicle 
has meant shes had to change jobs and take up less well paid employment.
MotoNovo said it had arranged for an independent  inspection of the vehicle which  had been 
carried out by a company Ill refer to as D. It said this report had concluded the engine was 
only running on three cylinders.  But it (D) said this fault wouldnt  have  been  present at the 
point of supply  as the vehicle couldnt  have covered the 2,871 miles without the engine 
failing sooner. So it was unable to uphold the customers complaint. In respect  of the lack of 
service history it said it had offered to pay for a service.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the vehicle had 
been misrepresented  in that there was no evidence of the vehicle having been  recently  
serviced as claimed  in the advertisement.  She also found that Ds report had indicated  that 
an oil leak had probably been present at the point of supply. And that it had recommended it 
required further investigation - which MotoNovo hadnt arranged.  She thought Miss G should 
be able to reject the vehicle.
As no reply from MotoNovo to our adjudicators view has been received the matters  been 
referred to an ombudsman to make  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss G has experienced the problems shes had with this vehicle. I can see it 
came at a moment in her personal life when she was already facing a difficult  time. So I fully 
accept that the issues with the vehicle had a disproportionate effect upon her and I extend 
my condolences.
Miss Gs complaint comprises two main  elements namely that the description  of the vehicle 
was misrepresented and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Whilst Ill deal 
with each aspect  separately,  in the circumstances of this case  I think  theyre so closely  
aligned as to have a direct  impact on my final decision.
Ref: DRN31695682Miss Gs hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. MotoNovo supplied  the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Its also responsible for 
any misrepresentation of the goods by the retailer (J) prior to supply.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA) and the Consumer Credit Act, 1974  (CCA).
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter into an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. In order  to conform to 
contract at the time of supply the CRA requires goods to be of satisfactory  quality. This is 
defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory taking  into 
consideration issues which can include age and previous  use of the goods. It also includes 
an element of durability  or, put another way, how long can the goods reasonably be 
expected to last.
Prior to acquiring the vehicle Miss G had seen an advertisement describing it. Ive seen  a 
copy of the advert which includes the description Recent service. Miss G also states that 
she was told by J that the vehicle had been  fully serviced. As the latter  statement  was 
verbal shes not been able to provide any corroboration. And I understand that J has since 
gone into administration meaning the matter cannot be followed up. I dont doubt what Miss 
G says but for the purposes of this decision the statement in the advert is all I need to rely 
upon. As far as I can see MotoNovo hasnt been able to provide  any evidence of any service  
history - recent or otherwise - and consequently it agreed to consider funding the cost of a 
service.
If the vehicle  hadnt  already experienced mechanical problems this mightve provided a 
resolution. But unfortunately  it suffered  two breakdowns. There was an overheating problem 
on 29 December 2018 which  was apparently resolved at the roadside by the breakdown 
service Ill refer to as C. And on 19 January 2019 C was again called out to the vehicle.  
This time it reported  there were  misfiring  issues with the cylinders and a lack of coolant. It 
said the vehicle  had to be recovered as it couldnt be driven. 
Following this, MotoNovo  arranged for the vehicle to be inspected  by D and this took place 
on 22 February 2019. Ds report found the rocker cover gasket to be leaking profusely and 
also found evidence  of the antifreeze  coolant leaking on top of the gear box. It said:
I could not see any history of servicing on this car. It was evident  that it hasnt been cared 
as it should have been especially the oil leak has been there for quite a while probably even 
before the customer purchased this car. If this ran with low or no oil this car would certainly 
would have overheated very quickly and caused  some serious internal damage and 
catastrophic engine  failure.
The report  went on to conclude that the engine was running on only three cylinders and 
there was no compression in cylinder  4. It said that as the vehicle had covered 2,871miles  
since supply it didnt  consider this was possible if the fault had been present at the point of 
supply. The engineer recommended further  investigation including  dismantling the engine to 
reveal what had failed and why.
Ref: DRN31695683I think its fair to say that in some respects  Ds report is inconclusive. It describes  the factual 
condition of the vehicle but is unable to say exactly what  caused  the recent failure or why it 
occurred. But it said in view of the mileage covered since supply it didnt think the fault was 
present at the point of supply. 
In my opinion, Ds report isnt entirely consistent  in its conclusions. It identified  an oil leak - 
which it said was probably there  when  the customer acquired the vehicle. And its confirmed 
that running on low or no oil could lead to overheating  and catastrophic  engine failure. So its 
hard to see how that is consistent with a finding that the fault leading  to the breakdown  
wasnt present at the point of supply. Particularly  so as the exact cause hasnt been 
identified.
I think the presence of such  a serious  oil leak which has been identified  as probably being  
present at the point of supply is highly  relevant  in the circumstances of this case. Ds 
engineers report  indicated the vehicle  hadnt  been  cared for and this suggests the vehicle 
hadnt been recently serviced as advertised. And had the vehicle been properly serviced 
prior to supply to Miss G its probable the oil leak and coolant  leak wouldve been  identified 
and presumably repaired.
On this basis Im satisfied that there  was misrepresentation  of the vehicle as having been  
recently serviced. And I dont think Miss G wouldve gone ahead with the agreement  without  
this assurance.  Shes supplied information which  shows she intended to use the vehicle for 
lengthy journeys  - so its almost certain  shed have been keen to try to ensure she was 
acquiring a reliable vehicle.
I also find the vehicle  wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. A reasonable person 
wouldnt expect any vehicle to be supplied with a serious oil leak and coolant leak - let alone 
one where it was claimed a recent  service  had been carried out. Ordinarily  it mightve been 
reasonable to allow  MotoNovo to have  the chance to repair  the vehicle. But as it chose not 
to uphold Miss Gs complaint at the time its not reasonable for Miss G to have to wait any 
longer. Shes already experienced considerable distress and inconvenience, some  of which I 
think couldve been avoided if thered  been  a more careful consideration of all the relevant 
circumstances. I should  add - that in assessing the appropriate compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  - Ive not taken into account that which resulted purely from the basis  of 
her individual family circumstances of which  MotoNovo wouldnt have been aware. 
Miss G has made reference  to some losses which she feels are consequential  upon the 
breakdown of the vehicle. But Im not able to hold MotoNovo responsible for some of these 
issues. In particular the loss of income which Miss G has experienced due to having to 
change employment.  In order to be considered consequential, a loss has not only to arise  
from the relevant  circumstances  it has to be reasonably foreseeable. I cant say MotoNovo 
would reasonably have been  aware  of Miss Gs personal circumstances and how these 
might be affected. Similarly the train fares claimed  are not recoverable.  Had the vehicle 
remained in good  order shed have had the expense of the running costs  including  petrol as 
well as the finance agreement. So the refund of the relevant payments on the agreement to 
cover the period the vehicles been unavailable should offset the additional expense.
Miss G has mentioned a payment she made for a warranty  but I cant see that as part of the 
regulated agreement. It may be that this was a separate transaction and therefore wouldnt 
fall under the scope of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31695684I think it would be fair to award reasonable towing costs of the vehicle to her new address as 
shes been required as part of the conditions of the agreement to keep it in her possession 
whilst the complaint has been investigated.
In summary,  I find the vehicle was misrepresented in that it hadnt been recently serviced as 
described in the advertisement. It was also not of satisfactory quality when  supplied  due to 
the serious oil leak and coolant  leak. And I also dont think  it was sufficiently durable. Even if 
the oil leak and coolant leak had developed wholly after supply - which  I find is highly 
improbable - Id not expect such serious  issues to arise when the vehicle had covered less 
then 3,000 miles since  supply. As the required repairs havent been  done in sufficient time to 
prevent Miss G suffering significant inconvenience  shes now entitled to end the agreement 
and reject the vehicle.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require FirstRand  Bank Limited  trading as 
MotoNovo Finance to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Miss G to pay from the date of 
termination;
2.Accept rejection  of the vehicle and arrange for its collection at no cost to Miss G;
3.Refund Miss Gs cash deposit of £500;
4.Refund monthly payments (pro rata for any period of less than one month)  from 19 
January 2019  to date of termination;
5.Pay £300 for distress  and inconvenience  caused to Miss G;
6.Refund £195 towing costs of the vehicle to Miss Gs latest home  address;
7.Arrange for details  of the agreement to be removed from Miss Gs credit  file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to payments arising from
3, 4 and 6 above from date of payment to date of settlement.
.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3169568