K822xcomplaint
Mr H says MEM Consumer Finance  Limited  (trading as Payday UK) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 31 January 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I wasnt intending to award  Mr H any further 
compensation. Since my provisional  decision, Mr H confirmed  that he accepted  it and had 
nothing further  to add. And Payday UK didnt  provide anything  further  for me to think  about 
either.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disputed my findings or asked me to look at anything  else,  I see no 
reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision of 31 January  2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 31 January 2019,  Im not 
awarding Mr H any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39725872COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H says MEM Consumer Finance Limited  (trading  as Payday  UK) lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
This complaint is about  twelve  payday loans  Payday UK provided to Mr H between April 2015 and 
November 2016.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. In essence, she thought  that Payday  UK irresponsibly 
provided all of the loans form loan sixteen onwards  to Mr H. Payday UK disagreed. In its view, Mr H 
already accepted an offer in full and final settlement of his complaint. So it was unfair  for it to have to 
pay further compensation Mr H any further compensation. As Payday UK disagreed, the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending on our website  and Ive taken  this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case. 
Having carefully thought about everything, Im intending to reach  the conclusion that it would be unfair  
and unreasonable for me to tell Payday  UK to pay Mr H any further compensation. Id like to explain 
why I think  this is the case in a bit more detail. 
I want  to start by saying that we are an informal  and impartial service which exists to look at disputes 
between financial  services providers and their customers. So it follows that there must  be an open 
dispute for us to look into in order for us to provide  a determination. In this case, I dont think that 
theres an open dispute  here because Mr H already  accepted an offer in full and final settlement of his 
complaint before we started looking  at it.
To explain, in its final response of 24 January 2018,  Payday  UK made  an offer to refund the interest 
Mr H, plus interest, paid on three  of the loans  our adjudicator thought  were unfairly given  to Mr H. 
Payday UK also agreed to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result 
of these loans. Mr H was told that he could either accept the offer in full and final settlement of his 
entire complaint or refer his complaint to our service.   
Mr H didnt accept Payday  UKs offer and instead referred his complaint  to us a couple of weeks after 
receiving the final response. But before his complaint was allocated  to one of our adjudicators, Mr H 
went back to Payday UK on 7 September 2018 signing the settlement form attached to the final 
response of 24 January 2018 confirming  that he wished  to accept the offer in full and final settlement 
of his case.   
I know that Mr H did contact  us a couple of times, before he accepted the offer, to ask for updates.  
And he was told we werent able to give him an answer on when wed be in a position to look at his 
complaint. Equally Im also mindful of the fact that that Mr H accepted  Payday UKs offer as some 
lenders had gone insolvent  and he feared  not getting any compensation at all. But I have to weigh  this 
against the fact that he knew he Payday UKs offer was in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
I also think  that if we were to award  further compensation  in cases  where consumers knowingly 
accepted a clear settlement  from the business concerned, in full and final settlement  of their 
complaint, thered be no finality for businesses.  And it would be impossible for us to effectively provide  
an informal  dispute resolution  service,  as complaints  could  run on and on even though a settlement 
had been accepted. I think that this would  undermine  confidence in the entire process.   
Ref: DRN39725873I also have to be fair to both parties. As a result of Mr H accepting  Payday UKs offer, it has already 
paid compensation for the loans concerned. When reviewing a case, Im required to look at all the 
information provided  and reach my own conclusions on a complaint. I dont think it would  be fair and 
reasonable for me to expect Payday UK to stand by the settlement  it reached with Mr H, if I were  to 
allow Mr H to go back on it and relook at his case. 
And as I dont have any powers to make an award against a consumer, Im not in a position to require  
Mr H to return the compensation he was paid if, I were  as is possible - to find that Payday  UK had 
overpaid Mr H. So, in these circumstances,  I cant see how I can fairly and reasonably determine if 
Mr H should be paid further compensation. His acceptance of the offer limits what  I can do here.
So overall I think  that there are a number  of reasons  why it would be unfair  and unreasonable for me 
to award Mr H any further compensation  and thats what Im intending to say in my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not intending  to uphold Mr Hs complaint or award him any further 
compensation. 
If Payday UK or Mr H has anything  further to add before  I issue my final decision,  they should ensure  
anything they send reaches me by 14 February 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3972587