K820x#14complaint
Miss R and Mr S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss R and Mr S bought  the policy in March  2003  at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. They applied  for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Miss R and Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £340.06 each a month towards  
their mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £41.20 a 
month. 
At the time,  Miss R was employed in credit  control. She told us she was not entitled to any 
contractual sick pay from her employer.  If she was off sick, she would have received 
statutory sick pay only. Miss R also told us she didnt  have  any other means  of repaying the 
mortgage should she be unable to work. I understand Miss R was in good health  at the time 
of the sale. 
Mr S was employed as a warehouseman. He also told us he wouldnt have been entitled to 
contractual sick pay if he was off work   he would  have received statutory sick pay. Mr R 
also said that he didnt  have any other  means to meet his mortgage  repayments if he was 
unable to work. I understand that Mr S was also in good health when PPI was sold. 
In their PPI questionnaire, Miss R and Mr S told us that they were trying  to have a baby 
when the cover was sold and they didnt think they would  have  been  covered.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account was closed in July 2003  
 just a few months after it was opened. 
Miss R and Mr S representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, the representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss R and Mr S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  The 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Miss R and Mr S about  the poor value; 
Ref: DRN34037602The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss R and Mr 
S and the impact  they would  have  had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss R and Mr S received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss R and Mr S disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss R and Mr S. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken it into account in deciding this complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003, a few months after it started. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN34037603This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss R and Mr Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN34037604-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss R and Mr S with reasonable  care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Miss R and Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss R 
and Mr S I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss 
or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Miss R, Mr S and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Miss R and Mr S know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Looking at the PPI questionnaire, I can see that Miss R and Mr S said they were  told the PPI 
was part of a package and they had to take the cover out. They also said they were 
pressured and rushed  into agreeing to the policy. It is not entirely  clear  to me how Halifax 
could have pressured Miss R and Mr S into buying  cover and misled them  into thinking the 
PPI was part of a package. There would be no need  to pressure them  if they thought PPI 
was part of the mortgage package. 
Halifax provided us with some electronic records from the relevant time. I think  there must 
have been a fairly detailed conversation about PPI. I say this because a lot of information 
about the health of Miss R and Mr S has been provided  down to whether they were 
smokers. I cant  reasonably find Miss R and Mr S were rushed. 
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer, which doesnt say PPI was a requirement of the 
mortgage. This was an important document that set out the terms of a large loan that was 
secured on their home and I think Miss R and Mr S would have read it. If theyd been misled 
into thinking PPI was a condition of their mortgage, I think theyd have questioned why that 
wasnt reflected on the mortgage offer. The evidence  Ive seen doesnt suggest they did. 
 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss R and Mr S knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Miss R and Mr S agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Halifax had to advise Miss R and Mr S with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN34037605the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation. It seems Miss R and Mr S cant remember clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about Miss 
R and Mr Ss financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  to show the adviser 
took steps to establish whether they would have  been caught by the significant  exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policy did not fully meet their needs. For 
example, there is nothing  to suggest Halifax considered whether Miss R and Mr S had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss R and Mr S given their circumstances.  
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss R and Mr S, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Miss R and Mr S met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Miss R and Mr S had a need for the policy  they would  not have received any 
contractual sick pay if they were unable to work due to illness, their redundancy 
benefits are likely to be limited and they didnt have  any savings to fall back on. The 
policy would have  helped  Miss R and Mr S manage  the consequences  if one or both 
of them  were unable  to work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss R and Mr S. 
There was nothing  about their employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for them to claim.  And they havent  told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect their ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Miss R and Mr Ss 
circumstances.
 
-As I said above, Miss R and Mr S told us they were trying  for a baby when PPI was 
sold to them and it was argued on their behalf that it was unlikely they could make a 
PPI claim. I can see that symptoms that would usually be expected  to accompany 
pregnancy and were  of a minor and/or  temporary nature  (such as morning sickness 
and fatigue) would  not be covered. But I dont think Miss R would have reasonably  
expected to take more than 30 consecutive days off work because of morning 
sickness and complications  arising  from a pregnancy appear  to have been covered. I 
cant reasonably  say that potential morning sickness or fatigue in a future pregnancy 
would have made this cover unsuitable for Miss R and Mr S. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Miss R and Mr S 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN34037606the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss R and Mr S were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Miss R and Mr 
S would have taken  out the policy without  any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss R and Mr S agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss R and Mr S Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Miss R and Mr S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss R and Mr Ss representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints like this. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss R and Mr Ss representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss R and Mr S about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance to Miss R and Mr S. 
Im not persuaded by the representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss R and Mr S suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that Halifax ought  to have done either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Miss  R and Mr S? To what extent did 
Miss R and Mr S suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss R and 
Mr S. So, I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Ref: DRN34037607Miss R and Mr S suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Miss R and Mr S would have still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss R and Mr S, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss R and Mr S suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Miss R and Mr S would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Miss R and Mr S say they wouldnt have taken it out and believeI should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss R and Mr S had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss R and Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss R and Mr S knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium  at the point 
Miss R and Mr S applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Miss R and Mr S 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
some months so if the costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of 
sale, its possible they might have raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss R and Mr S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Miss R and Mr S would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely their 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss R and Mr S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN34037608The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which had been  diagnosed 
by or for which treatment and/or advice had been suggested by a registered medical 
practitioner in the 12 months  before the start date of the PPI. Irrespective of 
diagnosis, conditions  for which Miss R or Mr S had substantive symptoms or 
investigations before the start date and which recurred within  12 months of the start 
date were also excluded. Moreover, Miss R and Mr S could not claim for a chronic or 
continuing disease that they knew about  at the start date of the cover;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss R 
and Mr S werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss R and Mr S be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss R and Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss R and Mr S from taking  out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss R and Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Miss R and Mr S wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  they 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and were in permanent employment.  So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss R and 
Mr S might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Miss R and Mr S from taking  out the policy,  Miss R and Mr S, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss R and Mr S had known  they could only claim for disability  if they were  not only unable 
to do their job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given their 
circumstances and the limited other means  they had to make  their repayments if they 
werent working, on balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking out the 
cover.
Ref: DRN34037609Halifax may not have  told Miss R and Mr S that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but they had limited other  means  to fall back on and their statutory redundancy entitlement 
was also significantly less than 24 months  income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss R and Mr S would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Miss R and Mr S be unable to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home 
was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss R and Mr S would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Miss R and Mr S were made 
redundant, or were unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not Miss R and Mr S would  have taken  out the policy  in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Miss R and Mr Ss representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss R and Mr S would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss R and Mr 
Ss circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss R and Mr S believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss R and Mr S in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN340376010That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Miss R and Mr S compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Miss R and Mr S think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Miss R and Mr S in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss R and Mr Ss representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Miss R and Mr S and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss R and Mr S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3403760