1complaint
This complaint concerns  the sale of two regular premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies, one taken  out in conjunction with a mortgage arranged in 2001  and the other with a 
further advance  in 2004. Mr and Mrs C consider Saffron Building Society (Saffron) miss-sold 
the policies. 
background
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint about  the sale in 2001 and didnt uphold the complaint 
about the 2004 sale. Saffron disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive 
read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments  to what I think  is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because  I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  
context. 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when the sale was so long ago and the documentation 
from the time of the sale is incomplete, as it is here.  Where there isnt much  evidence for me to 
consider, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities   that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on what I 
think most likely  happened.  
Im upholding the complaint about the policy sold in 2001 and not upholding the complaint about 
the sale made in 2004. I explain why below. 
So the questions  I need to consider are whether  Saffron gave Mr and Mrs C information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make  an 
informed choice about the insurance they were  buying. And whether in giving  any advice or 
recommendation, Saffron  took adequate steps  to ensure the product it recommended  was 
suitable for their needs. 
Saffron has said it did not give Mr and Mrs C any advice about whether  they should  take out the 
policies. Mrs C thought  that advice was given. Ive noted that the mortgage application in 2001 
says, We recommend that you protect your mortgage payments in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.  But the advice was general and not specific to Mr and Mrs C based 
on their circumstances.  This is clear from the fact the wording is printed in the text of the 
mortgage application which would be used for all customers, and not bespoke for Mr and Mrs C. 
So, on balance I do not think that Saffron gave  a tailored recommendation to Mr and Mrs C in 
2001 or 2004. So, it didnt  need  to make  sure that the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. But it 
did need to provide them with information  sufficient for them to make  an informed choice. 
2001 sale
Having considered the case and all the submissions made in this case, I do not think that Saffron 
ensured Mr and Mrs C were in a position  to make a properly informed choice.  
I am upholding  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because I think that Mr Cs employment status would 
have meant  he was ineligible for the policy Saffron  sold to Mr and Mrs C. I say this because Mr 
Ref: DRN31045662and Mrs C have told us that Mr C was employed for less than 16 hours a week  at the time of the 
sale. 
There is no information about who is eligible for the cover in the mortgage  application form. It 
explains that, Details are provided in the Mortgage Payment Protection leaflet, please  read it 
before you decide.  Saffron has not provided us with a copy of the leaflet that pertained.  And 
Saffron told us that they do not have a copy of the policy booklet for PPI from 2001. But they have 
provided a copy of a policy booklet  from 2005 and they think the terms that applied  would have 
been the same in 2001. 
The 2005  policy  booklet explains that, You must be over 18 and under 64 when you apply for 
cover and have been  in full time work for at least 6 months. This is found in the key facts 
document, which was on page 2 of the policy booklet as it was presented to us. But to understand 
this fully condition  of eligibility the consumer would have needed  to cross reference that with the 
definitions section in section 5 of the policy booklet. That section provides the following definition,  
"work/working - receiving  payment for working  at least 16 hours  per week under a permanent 
contract, a fixed-term contract  or as self-employed.  
So it seems  that Mr C would have not been eligible for the policy as he was working less than 16 
hours a week. I think this is something  that Mr and Mrs C wouldve thought  important.
The term is found in the policy document that Saffron has provided but this term was a significant 
one and needed to be sufficiently highlighted to Mr and Mrs C. Having looked at all the 
submissions made in this case I do not think it Saffron has demonstrated that it made clear the 
terms that applied  to a consumer  being eligible for the policy.  So I dont think Mr and Mrs C were 
given enough  information about the policy when they decided  to take it out.  
Saffron disagreed with our adjudicator  when  she made that same finding. Saffron has said that its 
representatives would have explained  eligibility to the consumers. But Saffron  has not provided 
us with any guidance notes or training material for those of its staff who performed these 
meetings that might  confirm what they were  supposed to cover  with consumers and how they 
were supposed  to position the information with consumers. But even  if Saffron had provided such  
information, this in itself wouldnt demonstrate that any such  guidelines had been followed in this 
particular case.  
Saffron has provided the mortgage offer for the 2004 sale dated 12 January 2004. Saffron says 
that it would  have used something  very similar  in 2001. I have listened to that testimony. I have 
also noted that Saffron does not have a copy of the form it asked Mr and Mrs C to complete for 
the 2001 sale. And it hasnt provided  us with a sample of the documentation  it used  in 2001. 
However, the 2004 document does ask the consumers some questions  including, Are you 
currently in perm anent gainfull (sic) empl oyment  of at least  16 hours per week  and not aware  of 
any impending unemployme nt? Saffron has told us that this form would have been completed  in 
2001 and that because  Mr C ended up with the policy  he would have confirmed to the Society  
that he was working  for more than 16 hours a week. 
I have thought about the above in deciding this complaint. But I have  also looked at the mortgage  
application from 2001 to see what Mr C told Saffron at the point  of sale about  his employment. To 
get the mortgage Mr C told Saffron that he worked  as a Maths  Tutor and earned £4,000 a year. 
This suggests that Mr C was in fact working  less than 16 hours a week.  Subsequently, Mr C has 
provided his p60s for 2000 and 2001 and they actually  show he earned a bit less than that. 
So, having  considered all the submission  made  by both parties in this case,  in the absence  of a 
completed copy of the form Saffron  says would have been completed by Mr C, I think  that its 
most likely that Mr C was not working  more than 16 hours a week and therefore was ineligible for 
Ref: DRN31045663the policy. And I think that Saffron didnt provide sufficient information for that to be sufficiently 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs C at the point of sale. So, I think  the 2001 policy was miss-sold. 
2004 sale
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of PPI in 2004. Ill explain 
why.
I think its likely Saffron made it clear Mr and Mrs C didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it  although I can understand why they cant remember  this over 15 years later. I 
say this because  Mr and Mrs C recall  taking out the policy,  but felt they were  put under pressure 
to do so. To get the PPI Mr and Mrs C had to complete an application form which was separate  to 
the application form for the mortgage  and was completed when they had already been offered the 
further advance. On that form they chose which person was to be covered and they chose that 
the policy should cover Mrs C alone. So, it seems  most likely that Mr and Mrs C would have been 
given a choice  about taking the policy. Ive noted that theres no language on any documentary  
evidence that suggests the credit is dependent on taking out PPI.  
Mrs C told us that she and Mr C felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents their best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective  area and I have 
not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having  considered  the 
above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs C only took the policy 
because they were put under pressure  to do so.
Saffron didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed so they could decide if it 
was right for them.
The information Saffron  gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI probably wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I think its likely they had would have had some understanding that it would pay a 
benefit if Mrs C wasnt  able to work  because she was sick or became unemployed. And as I think  
they chose to take out the PPI, it seems like they were interested in this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, it seems  that Mrs C was eligible for 
the cover  this policy could  provide and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been  useful for her if something went  
wrong. 
And it appears that Mr and Mrs C would  have benefitted from the cover. I say this because  Mr 
and Mrs C told us that Mrs C had good sick pay for a year and that they had some savings. But 
Mr and Mrs C chose to protect whatever savings they had by not using them  to take a smaller 
further advance  or no further advance at all. And the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to any 
sick pay that Mrs C may have been entitled  to. Ive also considered  that the PPI would have 
provided financial assistance if Mrs C lost her job, and would have reduced their reliance  on and 
further protected any savings they had. So, considering all of the above, Ive considered that Mr 
and Mrs C would have  chosen to take out the PPI, aware of what  their circumstances were.  So I 
think the PPI could be useful for them.
So having  considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would  have put Mr 
and Mrs C off taking  out the cover.
I think that the policy sold in 2004  was not miss-sold. 
But I think the policy sold in 2001  was miss-sold. So, Saffron  needs  to do something to put things 
right.
Ref: DRN31045664putting things right
Saffron should  put Mr and Mrs C in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out PPI in 
2001. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Saffron should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of 
interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Saffron can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Saffron to take off tax from this interest. Saffron must give Mr 
and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I do not uphold the complaint  about  the sale of PPI in 2004. But for 
the reasons given above I do uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of the PPI in 2001.  
I now direct  Saffron Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs C as set out in the above putting  things 
right section.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.  
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3104566