K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Premier Underwriting Limited unfairly cancelled his car insurance 
policy. Hes unhappy that he owes a cancellation  fee. 
background
Mr F bought  a car insurance policy via an online comparison  website through  a broker. The 
insurer of the policy  was Premier. 
Mr F didnt  tell Premier  about previous incidents  and claims for both him and his named 
driver. For claims  made by both the named driver  and Mr F in 2017, Premier made an 
adjustment to the premium. But when it identified  a second incident  against Mr Fs record 
from February 2018, Premier said it would no longer be able to provide cover. So it 
cancelled his policy and Mr F owed a cancellation  fee.
Mr F doesnt feel he should have to pay the cancellation fee. He said the incident from 
February 2018 was a claim  which was later withdrawn  as Premier  his insurer  at the time 
 refused to deal with it. It related to damage  which Mr F said a dealership  garage had 
caused to his car. The dealership later agreed to repair the damage for free. Premier  didnt 
record the incident on the Claims Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) database. 
However, Premier  said Mr F should have still disclosed it. Premier said it asked Mr F a clear  
question which he didnt  answer correctly. So it said its decision  to cancel his policy was 
correct. 
It upheld part of Mr Fs complaint because  it said an agent hadnt acted professionally  during 
a call Mr F had with it. 
Mr F remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our adjudicator thought 
Premier had acted reasonably. 
Mr F didnt  agree. He said Premier has provided false  information. He said he was given a 
quote significantly higher for a replacement policy which  he rejected. Mr F said he was able 
to find a policy for a much  lower price elsewhere.  Mr F said Premier  refused to cover his 
claim for damage to his car in February  2018  even though he provided proof. 
So Mr F wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly. Premier said that Mr F 
carelessly misrepresented the facts in order to buy his policy.  I have taken account of the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Ref: DRN35510092The key question Mr F was asked when he applied for the policy  was:
Please tell us about any accidents,  claims or losses made by you, or against  you, on 
any vehicles, irrespective  of fault within the last five years.
The question makes  no reference to where that accident, claim or loss might be recorded.  
So just because it wasnt recorded on CUE  by Premier,  this doesnt therefore mean Mr F 
answered the question accurately and with reasonable care.  An insurer  asks questions in 
order to decide  whether  it has an appetite  for the risk its prepared to insure. I think  Premiers 
question here was clear.
In addition to the incident  in February 2018,  Mr F also didnt tell Premier about a claim from 
2017 against his record  and a claim (also in 2017)  against his named  drivers record. 
However, these claims didnt mean that Premier couldnt provide insurance   so they didnt 
lead to the cancellation of his policy. It was the February 2018 incident that made the 
difference in this case. 
An insurers  criteria are commercially sensitive  and so it doesnt  share  this information with 
customers. But we can ask an insurer to provide us with proof  from its underwriter to show  
its been fairly applied.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided that Premier wouldnt have offered Mr F a policy  if 
hed answered  the question  about  his and his named drivers history  correctly. So I think 
Premiers decision  to cancel Mr Fs policy was reached reasonably and in line with CIDRA. 
This therefore means I think  the cancellation fee Mr F owes  is correctly due. 
I understand that Mr F bought the policy through a broker. If Mr F is unhappy with the quote 
he received for alternative cover, this isnt something I can consider as my decision relates 
to Premier and the policy it cancelled as the insurer. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3551009