K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint concerns the sale by a representative of Mortgage Advice Bureau 
Limited (MAB) of two life policies  to protect their repayment mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs Bs representative complained that they had been sold two single-life, level term 
insurance policies  to protect their repayment mortgage. He felt this was excessive  and that 
they shouldve  instead been  sold a joint-life,  decreasing term policy.  
MAB disagreed and felt the documentation produced at the time of the advice showed that 
Mr and Mrs B had wanted the benefit  of the extra protection  provided  by level cover, as 
they were planning on starting a family. And that the representative had compared  the cost 
of two single-life policies with that of a joint policy and found  there  to be little difference,  
given the benefits of having two policies.  
Our adjudicator nevertheless didnt think that Mr and Mrs B had been given enough 
information about the alternatives and their costs. So he felt the complaint should  be upheld.  
He recommended that MAB should compensate  Mr and Mrs B by comparing the cost of a 
joint-life, decreasing  term policy with the cost of the policies actually sold and refund any 
difference, plus interest. 
In response, MAB indicated it would obtain  the information required to do this. But as this 
hasnt been forthcoming, the matters been referred  to me for a final decision on the matter.  
Further to this, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  noted  that because  theyd purchased  the life 
cover through MAB theyd  been entitled  to a special arrangement allowing them  to defer  the 
payment of the fees charged for MABs associated mortgage advice. He explained that when 
Mr and Mrs B had cancelled the policies that theyd felt were  mis-sold, this had resulted in 
MAB requesting immediate repayment of the outstanding fees.  
The adjudicator confirmed that the fees would  still apply, as theyd been  charged for the 
mortgage advice  not the protection advice. But he felt that Mr and Mrs B should  still be 
entitled to benefit from the deferment arrangement, as in all likelihood  they wouldnt have  
cancelled the cover if theyd been  sold the right policy at the outset.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
I think its fair to say that generally a joint-life,  decreasing term policy would  be the default, 
most cost-effective, option in these circumstances. But that doesnt mean it would 
necessarily be wrong  to make an alternative  recommendation, proving  it was suitable and 
fully understood  by the customers. 
However, Im not sure those criteria were met with this recommendation. The suitability letter 
did indicate that there was discussion of the difference between  level and decreasing cover 
Ref: DRN34039902and the potential benefits of having a surplus of cover. But there was also reference to Mr 
and Mrs Bs limited budget. 
And in respect  of a joint policy versus two sole-name policies, while there  was reference to 
similar costs  there  doesnt appear  to be any meaningful cost comparison provided to Mr 
and Mrs B. This being  so, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that they were able to 
make a fully informed decision about  proceeding with the recommendation, particularly 
considering they did have  a limited budget.  
So, in all the circumstances,  I think the complaint should be upheld and compensation paid 
to Mr and Mrs B based on the comparison of the premiums for an appropriate joint-life, 
decreasing term policy  with the premiums they paid to their two sole-name policies. Any 
difference in the cost of premiums should be refunded, along with 8% simple interest from 
the date each premium  was paid to the date of settlement. 
For clarity,  this should not impact the deferment agreement made in respect of the mortgage 
advice costs. I think its fair that the charges should still be applied  but payment  should  be 
made on the basis of the original deferment  agreement as this would most likely have been 
continued had a suitable policy been sold at the outset.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I direct Mortgage  
Advice Bureau Limited to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs B as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3403990