K821xAdmiral15complaint
Mr L complained about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited handled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr Ls car was damaged  in an accident  involving his wife. He said that it was the other 
drivers fault. He had a number of complaints about the way Admiral  handled  the claim. 
Admiral upheld his complaint  and offered him compensation of £50 but he didnt think it was 
enough, and he also wanted them to improve how they handled  claims.  
The investigator recommended  that his complaint should be upheld  and that Admiral  should 
offer an additional £50 in compensation. Admiral agreed to do this. But Mr L didnt agree and 
so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
I note that Mr L has another complaint against Admiral. Thats being dealt with separately  by 
this Service and I wont comment on it here. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L was unhappy  with several aspects of how Admiral handled the claim. He said they 
didnt take all the necessary details, didnt act in a timely manner, didnt  follow their own 
polices and didnt  support  him when he needed it. 
Mr L didnt agree with all of this. But they did accept that theyd delayed with regard to the 
witness information. They offered him £50 in compensation for this, and I understand that 
they have already paid this to him. He didnt think that was fair compensation and felt that 
they were fobbing him off. He wanted  them to admit their mistakes,  apologise and assure 
him that theyd improve their service in the future  for other customers.  However its not our 
role to ensure  that a business does that, or to punish a business. Instead we look at the 
specific case and decide if the business had acted fairly towards a consumer and, if not, how 
they should put it right.
issues with having  his car inspected and sent for repair
Admiral agreed to assess what repairs his car needed. Mr L arranged to take his car to their 
approved repairing garage for this. But when he got there he found  out that Admiral had 
cancelled his appointment, so hed had a wasted  journey. 
Admiral explained  that this happened  because he'd told them  he didnt want to have to take 
his car to a garage but wanted the garage  to come  to him. But because  the first garage 
couldnt go to his house, Admiral arranged for another garage to do the inspection instead.  
However it seems Admiral failed to tell Mr L that and in the meantime Mr L took his car in to 
the first garage at the arranged  time. I think that it was unreasonable for them  not to tell Mr L 
about the change in time to prevent a wasted  journey. 
Ref: DRN35587372Later, when  Mr L contacted Admirals garage to book his car in for repair, they couldnt  take 
his car for about a few weeks. They  said that was because they didnt  have a courtesy  car 
available that met his policy terms. His policy said Courtesy  car  a small car This car is 
not intended to be on a like for like basis with your car
Although Mr L accepted  thats all that his policy allowed, he said it was inconvenient as his 
own car was a seven  seater. And he felt that Admiral could have  authorised a larger car than 
the policy required because that was holding up his car being  repaired, and by that stage he 
was worried that his car might be dangerous to drive.
I think the policy condition  about  the courtesy car size is clear  and its not unfair. So although  
I can see that it might be inconvenient for him, Admiral werent obliged  to give him a like for 
like courtesy car. I also see that they did authorise  a slightly  larger car and get the repair 
date brought forward by a week. But I think that it would have been better practice  for 
Admiral to make the repairs  a priority. And I think that their poor communication  overall 
meant that the inspection and so the repair didnt take place as soon as they might otherwise 
have. So because of this, I think Admiral  should  award an additional £50 to reflect  the 
inconvenience and distress this caused Mr L.
was Mr L due to pay his policy excess?   
He was unhappy that Admiral expected him to pay a policy  excess. He didnt see why he 
should pay it when  the accident  wasnt his wifes fault. But as Admiral  explained the policy 
excess is payable on any claim regardless of whom  is at fault, though  it might  be 
recoverable later from the other party in some cases.
I can see that his policy  made clear  on page  10 that the policyholder is responsible for the 
excess even if the accident is not the fault of any driver named on your policy
This clause  is clear and not unusual in insurance policies and I dont think that is 
unreasonable. So I think that Mr L was due to pay the excess  regardless of who was at 
fault.
did Admiral act reasonably in considering and explaining about liability  for the accident?
It seems  that ultimately the other driver  did admit  liability for the accident. But Mr L was 
unhappy that at first Admiral said they might  settle  the claim on a split liability  basis.  He 
didnt agree to any split liability as he felt that the other driver was wholly  to blame  for the 
accident. He felt that Admiral were scaremongering. But Admiral do have discretion on any 
liability decision. His policy includes on page 33 a clause which  says that they are entitled to 
conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim on his behalf. Its a common  term in motor 
insurance policies,  and it allows Admiral to settle any claim  against  his policy as they see fit, 
whether Mr L agrees  with it or not. I appreciate that Mr L felt that it was an open and shut 
case, and was adamant that the other driver  was to blame, but the third party insurer  may 
have taken a different  view, and Admiral had to consider that and decide. So I dont think that 
Admiral acted unfairly by managing his expectations about liability  at that stage. 
Did Admiral delay in connection with the witness statement?
Mr L felt that Admiral delayed in getting  and using key information. He was unhappy  that 
Admiral didnt ask him at the start of his claim for the details of the witness  who he told them  
had been a passenger  in the car. He said that theyd been dismissive  of the value of that 
passenger evidence but they changed  their minds a few weeks  later. 
Ref: DRN35587373However, although they then got a statement  from the witness, it was another few weeks 
before they sent the statement to the third partys  insurers. He felt that delayed matters.  
Admiral agreed this and apologised and offered him £50 compensation to recognise that 
their actions may have  caused delay and inconvenienced him. I think  on balance  that is fair 
compensation for that delay. 
Did Admiral pass his and family members contact  information to third party  callers?
Mr L said that since the accident he and his family had received calls from third parties 
about an accident. He was worried that Admiral had passed this information on. But 
Admiral said they hadnt passed his or his familys details to anyone  else.  As I havent  
seen any evidence that they have,  I cant say that Admiral is responsible for this. The 
investigator has given  Mr L the ICO  Information  Commissioners Office in case  he 
wishes to take it up with them.
delays and lack of call backs not keeping him informed
He said hed had to make  lots of calls to Admiral. But they said most of those were  in 
response to them getting in touch  with him. They  also told him that theyd be in touch when 
they heard  from the third party, and they hadnt.  But Ive taken their communication  overall 
into account in my mention of compensation above.  
Mr L also said that they didnt acknowledge and respond to his complaint in line with their 
own procedures. It seems  that this was because he complained during a discussion about 
other matters, and they didnt note it as complaint right away. However  Admiral  did deal with 
his complaints and sent him a detailed final response within  a not unreasonable time frame, 
so I dont think they acted unreasonably there overall. 
So taking all the above into account,  I think that Admiral havent acted unfairly in all respects. 
I do appreciate that Mr L says hes been stressed  about the claim situation. But Admiral  
have already compensated him £50. And for the reasons given above, I think  that another 
£50 does adequately reflect the inconvenience  caused to him. So I require them  to pay him 
an additional  £50 in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to do the following:
pay Mr L compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience they have caused 
him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35587374Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr L 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr L how much  they have taken off, and give him .a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3558737