K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund  two cash  machine withdrawals
that she says she didnt make or authorise anyone  to make.
background
Miss Ms Vanquis  credit  card was used to make two cash machine withdrawals either side of
midnight on 12/13  March  2018. Each withdrawal was for £200. Miss M reported  them  to
Vanquis at about  8am on 13 March. She told Vanquis that he card had gone  missing and
that she didnt  keep a record of its PIN.
Vanquis looked into the matter but wouldnt refund the withdrawals. It said theyd been made
using the genuine card and the correct PIN. Since Miss M hadnt  disclosed the PIN to
anyone, it was likely that she, rather than a third party, was responsible  for them.
Miss M didnt accept that and referred  the matter to this service. One of our investigators
looked at what  had happened  and issued a preliminary assessment. She thought that Miss
Ms account  of events   which  Ill discuss in more detail below  meant  that it was quite
possible that someone known to Miss M had found out her PIN and taken her card without
her knowledge.  She recommended  that Vanquis  refund  the withdrawals.
Vanquis didnt  accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review them.  I did that, but reached  provisionally  at least   reached a different conclusion 
from the investigator. I invited further evidence  and arguments. Vanquis  and nothing  further 
to add, but Miss M didnt accept my provisional  conclusions and asked that I look at the 
complaint again.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent however changed my overall  
view since I issued my provisional decision. 
Miss M said she didnt understand how I could have reached a conclusion  different from that 
reached by the investigator. But the reason for that is that, whilst the investigator thought 
that Miss Ms account of events was possible,  I thought it was most  unlikely, especially given 
that it had changed in a number of material respects. 
Miss M said that shed  changed her PIN. Vanquiss  records showed that Miss M did change 
her PIN, but not until after the disputed  withdrawals. 
Miss M told us that, on the evening when the withdrawals took place, she had several friends 
to visit. She lives in shared accommodation.  She explained that some people left before 
midnight and suggested that one of them  might  have  taken her card.  She also said that 
shed used the card the previous day to buy drinks ahead of the gathering on 12 March, and 
that one of those  friends had been  with her and might have seen  her PIN then. When she 
reported the matter  to Vanquis she said that shed been feeling unwell on the evening  of 12 
March and had gone to bed early  leaving those who stayed the opportunity to take her 
card.
I think it unlikely that Miss M was, as she says, buying drinks for the following day on 11 
March. She made two payments,  for £4.55  and £1.75  not enough to suggest she was 
Ref: DRN30487022shopping for a group  of visitors. But even if there was someone  with her then, I think it 
unlikely that they would  observe and remember  Miss Ms PIN on the off chance that they 
might then have the opportunity to take the card.
Miss M told the investigator that she realised  her card was missing  when  some  (but not all) 
of her friends were  still at her house.  She says she asked them to help her look for the card 
and sent text messages to those who had already  left, although shes  since  changed her 
phone and no longer has evidence of that. She didnt  however  contact  Vanquis  until the 
following morning. The declaration she signed to report the loss didnt mention any of this, 
even though it asked specifically about  the circumstances in which  the card went  missing. It 
also seems to me to be at odds with her statement  that shed gone to bed early.
I accept that someone  who has had their credit card stolen  wont  necessarily know the exact 
circumstances in which that might have happened.  I also accept that its not always  possible 
to recall exactly details which at the time might seem  minor or irrelevant. But Im afraid that 
Miss Ms account of events includes far too many contradictions, even about things which 
are clearly  significant, that I cant simply overlook them. For those reasons, I think it more  
likely than not that Miss M either  made the withdrawals herself or let someone  else make 
them. Either  way, it wouldnt be fair to require Vanquis to refund them.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank  Limited to do anything  more to resolve  
Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss M to accept  or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3048702