K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G) hasnt treated them 
fairly when  dealing with a claim for lost jewellery  under their contents insurance policy.
Although Mr W is the policyholder, Mrs W is the owner of the lost jewellery and is the main 
complainant. Ill therefore refer mainly to Mrs W in this decision.
background 
In October  2012 Mr and Mrs W bought a diamond  solitaire ring for £2,700.
In January 2013, three months or so after purchase, Mrs W took the ring to be valued. 
A valuation  of £9,950 was given. Mrs W accordingly  listed the ring as a single high value 
item with an upper limit of £9,500 when she and Mr W took out contents insurance with L&G 
in August 2016.
In October  2016 Mrs W lost the ring during a car journey. Despite extensive searching and 
registering a lost property  claim  with the local police,  she couldnt find it and made a claim on 
her contents  insurance.  In support of her claim, Mrs W supplied  copies of the original 
purchase receipt, the valuation and family photos  of her wearing the ring.
L&G accepted the claim.  But it didnt accept the valuation.  It thought  the discrepancy 
between the sale price and the valuation was unreasonably high.  It wasnt persuaded that 
both documents  related to the same ring. So it offered to replace the ring  but only to the 
specifications given  in the purchase  receipt.
Mrs W disagreed  with this. She pointed  out that the receipt had much  vaguer details than the 
valuation  for example, it didnt mention the colour  or clarity of the diamond. She said the 
difference in price was because it was a second hand ring, the retailer was selling off stock  
and Mr W drove a hard bargain.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint,  with the assistance  of further photos 
provided by Mrs W. She found that the valuation was plausible and so felt that L&G should  
replace the ring to the specifications  in the valuation.
L&G agreed to this, but Mrs W didnt accept  the investigators view.  Shes  concerned that 
there can be variations  within the colour and clarity  bands, as well as other details, so even a 
ring made to the valuation specifications may not be worth  £9,950,  as the original ring was. 
Shed like L&G to make a ring that will match the valuation  and if it doesnt, shes said it 
should make  up any difference in value.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN37968912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  theres been a lot of 
communication around the valuation and how reliable it might be. As L&G has already 
agreed to abide  by the specifications given on the valuation, I dont think I need  to go into 
this aspect of the complaint. Im happy  that the valuation is an accurate representation of the 
ring Mrs W lost.
The terms of Mrs Ws policy  say that in the event of loss of an insured item:
Your insurer  will at their option
i)Replace as new,
ii)Pay the cost to your insurer of replacing  as new,
iii)Repair, or
iv)Pay the cost to your insurer to repair 
It is for L&G to decide which of these options  it takes for any particular claim.
In this case L&G has agreed to replace the ring as new by making a ring from scratch, 
following the specifications given in the valuation. The valuation  is reasonably  detailed,  
giving the cut, weight, colour  and clarity of the diamond, as well as information about the 
setting and main band. If L&G matches  those specifications, I think it will have done what  it 
can to put Mrs W back in the position she was before she lost her ring.
I understand that Mrs W is concerned about the valuation of the new ring and that it could 
end up being worth substantially less than her old ring. But I dont agree L&G needs to 
match the value  exactly. Its obligation  as an insurer is to provide  Mrs W with a new ring of 
the same  specification as the one she lost. And its said it will do this. So I think L&Gs offer 
has met the obligations  of the policy. And Mrs W would be put back in the position she was 
in before the loss if she is given a new ring with the specifications listed in the original 
valuation.
L&G has said that it will, along with its nominated jewellery supplier, liaise with Mrs W about 
the ring making  process, including providing her with a 3D plastic replica of the ring first. This 
will give Mrs W an opportunity to ensure the ring is as close a replacement  as possible to the 
one she lost  and I think this is a fair outcome in the circumstances.
If Mrs W is unwilling  to accept a replacement on these terms, L&G may choose  to offer her a 
cash settlement. As it is willing to replace the ring as new, that cash settlement will be the 
cost to L&G of replacing the ring (minus any excess). As L&G, in common  with most 
insurers, benefits from discounts with its nominated jewellery suppliers, the settlement may 
be less than it would cost Mrs W to replace the ring on the open market.
If Mrs W accepts a replacement, and on delivery she believes that inferior  materials  have 
been used or the workmanship is poor (and can provide some evidence  to support this), she 
may bring  a new complaint against L&G. But I dont think  the replacement  would be 
unsuitable if the only difference were a lower valuation price.
Ref: DRN37968913my final decision
Mrs Ws complaint  should be upheld and Legal  & General Insurance  Limited should replace 
the ring according  to the specifications given  on the January 2013 valuation.  If Mrs W prefers 
a cash settlement, Legal & General Insurance Limited should arrange this in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3796891