K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Shogun 
Finance Limited  (Shogun) is not of satisfactory  quality  and was misrepresented  to him.
background
Mr C took receipt of a nearly new car in March 2019. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Shogun. 
Nine days later he returned the car to the dealership. He complained that the Heads Up 
Display (HUD)  wasnt completely visible without  moving his head.
Shogun didnt uphold his complaint. They explained  that Mr C hadnt test driven  the car 
before signing  up for the deal and that there  was no fault with the vehicle. They said the 
visibility of the HUD was reliant on its adjustment and the adjustment of the seat. 
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She 
didnt think Mr C had demonstrated  there  was a fault with the car and she noted the 
dealership had explained it was working  as intended. She said that although Mr C had not 
been able to arrange a test drive of the car he had been able to drive a friends  version and 
that hed admitted hed had some difficulty viewing  the HUD on that car too. So overall,  she 
didnt think it would  be fair to ask Shogun  to take any further action.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicator. He said the sales agent didnt allow him to inspect the 
car prior to signing the sales documentation  and if he had the problem would have been 
resolved. He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr C so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Shogun, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
Ref: DRN39797732standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mr C needs to be able to demonstrate there  is a fault with the car. But Im not persuaded he 
has here. Whilst I understand he says he cant read all of the HUD the dealership  have 
checked the car over and have suggested that the HUD is working  as expected.  In the 
absence of any further evidence I dont think it would be fair to suggest theres anything 
wrong with this car. Im supported in that view by the suggestion that Mr C appears to have 
had similar problems in his friends vehicle.
If Mr C had been told something that led him to enter into the finance  agreement  it may be 
possible to reject the car because it had been misrepresented to him. But Im not persuaded 
thats the case here either. If the HUD was so important to Mr C that problems with it would 
have led him not to enter the agreement,  I would have  expected  him to research it and to 
ensure an appropriate test drive was arranged. I dont think  he did either so I think  it would 
be overly harsh to suggest he would not have  proceeded with the deal if hed known there 
may be some issues for him with the HUD.
So, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence this car was either  of unsatisfactory 
quality or misrepresented  to Mr C and Im therefore  not asking Shogun to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3979773