K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Nationwide Building Society (trading as 
Lambeth Building Society) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from October 2019,  which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy that Nationwide were now saying that the PPI was taken  out in 
1998 and not 1989 as they had been  originally told. They went back  to Nationwide to 
challenge this. Nationwide  provided more  information to substantiate the sale date. It also 
offered Mr and Mrs P £25 compensation for the mistake it had made in its final response 
letter.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having received further documentation from Nationwide, Mr and Mrs P now apparently 
accept that the evidence  provided points to the PPI being added to their mortgage account in 
1998. However, they still say that they didnt know the PPI had been added. They  query why 
they would  have added it at that time because they werent making any other changes to the 
mortgage then and in fact they redeemed the mortgage only a few months later and 
changed to a different lender.
As I said in my provisional decision,  from the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  that the PPI 
was taken out in 1998.
Nationwide doesnt  have the point  of sale documents  but, on balance, I consider that Mr and 
Mrs P would have signed some separate paperwork in 1998 to agree to the PPI. As 
mentioned in my provisional decision,  Nationwide  was using a separate  application form for 
PPI at the time, even if someone  was taking out PPI at the same  time as arranging their 
mortgage. I cant say why Mr and Mrs P decided  to take out PPI in 1998. But as the 
mortgage had already  been running  for some  years at that point, I consider that they would 
have known that it was not a condition of the mortgage.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs P have said,  including their comments in 
response to my provisional  decision, but I have not been persuaded to change my mind. 
Overall I consider that Mr and Mrs P probably  decided to take out the PPI, knowing that they 
didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so. It follows  that I do not uphold their 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN31127402Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31127403COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Nationwide  Building Society  (trading as Lambeth Building 
Society) mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P arranged  their mortgage in 1989. It wasnt until nine years later, in 1998, that the PPI 
was taken  out. Although  it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up to cover only Mr P for accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagree  with the adjudicators opinion  and 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website. And Ive taken  this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt know they had PPI and it was never  explained or discussed. Therefore 
the PPI was added to the mortgage account without their knowledge or consent.
In its final response letter to Mr and Mrs P, Nationwide originally said that the policy was taken out in 
1989, which was when the original mortgage was arranged. However, Nationwide  has since provided  
evidence that the policy wasnt in fact taken out until 1998, some  nine years later. This has obviously 
caused some  confusion.
Mr and Mrs P say that each of their annual mortgage statements included a payment for insurance. 
However, Nationwide has clarified that was for buildings  and contents  insurance. There  is only one 
entry for insurance at a mid-point in the year  on 21 October 1998. The date and the amount  of 
£263.15, is consistent with internal screenshots that Nationwide has also provided  in relation to the 
PPI. From  the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the PPI wasnt taken out until 1998.
Mr and Mrs P have said that Mr P was made redundant in 1993 but didnt make a claim because they 
didnt know they had the policy.  But as Ive now explained,  they didnt  in fact purchase the policy  until 
five years later.
Nationwide doesnt  have any actual paperwork from the sale, which isnt surprising given how long 
ago it took place.  But it does  make the case more  difficult to decide. Therefore in reaching my 
decision I have looked at the evidence  that we do have as well as what  I consider is more likely  to 
have happened.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes  at the time,  the policy would have been 
presented as optional. Nationwide has provided a sample of the PPI application  form that would have 
been in use in 1998. As it was a separate, specific form for PPI, that needed  to be signed to agree to 
the policy,  I consider  that Mr and Mrs P would have been aware that they were  taking out an 
additional insurance  product.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs P have provided their genuine recollection of events. However, the 
sale happened a long time ago, and so it wouldnt  be surprising  if Mr and Mrs Ps recollection  of 
events has faded. On balance I am not persuaded that they werent given  a choice about  taking out 
Ref: DRN31127404the policy.  I consider  that it is more likely  that they decided to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt  
have to, even if they no longer remember  doing  so.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs P to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure  that it met their 
needs. But it did need to provide them with enough  information  for them  to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr P had told us about his circumstances  in 1989 (believing that to be the date of the sale). We have 
recently asked him what  his circumstances were in 1998  and he has said that they remained  the 
same.
Mr P had told us that he would have received generous sick pay. But the policy would  have paid out 
in addition to any sick pay. Mr and Mrs P say they had some savings. But having  the policy meant 
that they could have retained these or used  them  to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more  information  about the policy, particularly about  
the things that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of those things. As I think  Mr and Mrs P 
had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont consider that further information would have  
caused them  to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything  Nationwide may 
have done wrong, so there is nothing Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112740