K821x#15complaint
The late Mr E complained about  the advice he was given by Stuart  Binns & Associates 
in relation to his self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). He said he was advised to 
invest a large part of his pension in a high risk and highly-geared commercial property 
portfolio.
Prior to his death,  Mr Es son was acting as a representative for his father in this 
matter. His son now continues the complaint on behalf of his father and his mother, 
who is the sole beneficiary of the SIPP.
Stuart Binns has at times been represented  in the complaint by a third party.  For ease of 
reading the decision Ill refer to all representations as having  been made by Stuart Binns.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2020.  A copy  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In summary  I said I was minded  to conclude that: 
There was evidence  to show that Mr E initially  raised concerns about the advice 
he received in 2010, within three years of the ACE fund being suspended.  I was 
therefore satisfied  that the complaint had been referred within  time under our 
rules and so the merits of the complaint against Stuart Binns  could be 
considered.
A substantial proportion of Mr Es SIPP had been invested in three UCIS funds, 
all investing in commercial property. I didnt think that Stuart Binns shouldve 
recommended these investments to Mr E, and should instead have advised him 
to invest his pension  differently.
I didnt think the new Independent Financial  Adviser  (IFA), that Mr E appointed in 
early 2007, ever truly took over responsibility  for advising him on his SIPP.  And it 
seems it was what Mr E saw as the lack of activity  on the IFAs part that caused 
him to revert back to Stuart Binns. As such, I didnt think  liability  for any loss 
caused by Stuart Binns advice should cease when Mr E corresponded with the 
new IFA.
Id considered the delay in the funds being transferred and whether Stuart 
Binns responsibility should be capped to reflect that, had it not been  for this 
delay, Firm S wouldve had custody of the ACE fund from some time in 
November 2007. However, in the circumstances, I thought  that it was fair to 
make an award for the whole loss against Stuart  Binns. I said this because  
Stuart Binns was still Mr Es financial adviser  and it arranged the sale of the 
HLP fund at the end of October 2007,  while the transfer was going through. This 
indicated to me that Stuart Binns was still advising Mr E on his investments. And 
as it was able to arrange the sale of the HLP fund, it couldve also arranged  the 
sale of the ACE fund,  but it didnt do so.
Even if there hadnt been a delay  and the assets  had initially  been registered  
correctly, I didnt  think that Firm S had any discretion over this investment. Any 
changes to investments within a managed-out portfolio could only be made by 
Mr E or his authorised representative,  which  was Stuart Binns. So, this still left 
Ref: DRN35055312little time for a meeting  to be arranged between Mr E, Stuart  Binns and Firm S to 
discuss whether the ACE fund should be retained. Ultimately Firm S lost the 
opportunity to review  the ACE fund and assess its suitability  for Mr E before it 
was suspended. So I didnt think it was fair to say that Firm S should be 
responsible for loss Mr E suffered.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr E wouldnt have lost out at all 
but for Stuart Binns  failings,  and that Stuart  Binns benefitted  financially from 
advising on this unsuitable  transaction  I thought that it was fair that the liability  
for any loss suffered  by Mr E remained with Stuart  Binns.
Mr Es son responded  to say that his mother accepts  my provisional  findings. 
Stuart Binns responded to confirm  that it doesnt accept my findings. Its provided substantial  
submissions, some  of which had already  been  provided and taken into consideration before I 
issued my provisional decision. In summary, Stuart  Binns main  reasons for not agreeing  
with my provisional findings  are: 
Jurisdiction
 
This service wrongly accepted jurisdiction when the complaint was first referred.  Mr E 
had failed to comply with the time limits  set out in our rules.
Stuart Binns sent a letter to Mr Es solicitor  in October 2013. It wrote again  in 
November 2013 to confirm that as it hadnt  heard anything  further,  it presumed  the 
matter was closed.  The additional correspondence  provided  shows that Mr Es 
solicitor had notified Mr E of his right to refer the matter to our service. However, 
when the Financial Ombudsman Service initially contacted  Stuart Binns about the 
complaint, we incorrectly stated that a final response  hadnt been issued. So it was 
missed that Mr E had failed to comply with the relevant time limits for referring  his 
complaint to this service. 
Mr E sought advice from another Independent Financial Advisor (IFA) in early  2007. 
A detailed letter  was issued by the new IFA in June 2007, which  explained what the 
firm had been doing on Mr Es behalf.  So Mr E ought to have  known before June 
2007 at the latest,  that he had cause for complaint.  Even  if the verbal concerns  
raised in October  2010 could be considered to be a complaint,  this was more  than 
three years after Mr E was first aware  and so was too late under the rules that apply. 
Suitability of the advice 
Mr E was a high net worth individual and experienced investor and so fell within one 
of the categories  that UCIS could be promoted to. His bank account and the fact that 
he signed numerous documents certifying himself  as such supported this. 
All the warnings and information given to Mr E at the time of advice had been  ignored 
during the assessment of the complaint.  Mr E had signed to say that hed read and 
understood the stringent warnings  given to him. 
The ombudsman was wrong to suggest  that Stuart Binns had failed in its duty to 
assess Mr Es needs, make a tailored recommendation and form its own view about 
the suitability and risks involved  with the investment.  Stuart  Binns sent a letter to 
Ref: DRN35055313Mr E clarifying exactly what he wished for from his pension fund, namely maximum  
tax-free withdrawal of funds and maximum return on his investment. Hed wanted to 
invest in commercial property, which was his field of expertise,  and had wanted a 
much smaller exposure to the risks of investing  in equities.  
The suitability of the investment had never been  a complaint raised by Mr E, or his 
brother, prior to 2013. The primary concerns  raised in October 2010 had been about  
the performance of the ACE fund; not its suitability.
The ombudsman has failed to acknowledge the volatility of the equity market in 2002. 
The FT index had dropped from 6500 in August 2000  to 4000 in July 2002. Thus an 
investment in shares might have been  criticised. 
The role of Firm S
Investment outsourcing to Firm S occurred on 9 August  2007,  when Firm S "initiated 
the transfer of assets to our custody , as confirmed in Firm Ss letter to Mr E dated 9 
March 2017.
Firm S had explained in October  2013  to Stuart  Binns that upon taking responsibility  
for clients, on the discretionary side, it had a responsibility to make  sure the client 
was invested in suitable funds. Firm S received a letter from Firm A on 23 August 
2007 confirming  the ACE investment  but at no point did it advise Mr E that the ACE 
fund was unsuitable for him.  Firm Ss contract  is clear in that it would advise the 
client if the in-specie asset being transferred was unsuitable.  Firm S didnt advise 
Mr E that what he transferred in August 2007  was unsuitable.
Firm S had also confirmed to Stuart Binns - when it had queried  compliance with 
FCA regulations - that it had on file fact finds for all Stuart Binns clients.  So when 
Firm S assumed responsibility for Mr Es portfolio, it clearly carried out its duty of 
conducting a fact find to assess the risk which Mr E was prepared  to accept. Firm S 
had full knowledge of the assets, some  £553,000, from Stuart Binns advisers 
handwritten note to Firm S on the letter  dated  25 July 2007.
Firm S and Firm A controlled  the transfer of the asset. And Firm S was contracted  to 
provide Mr E with investment advice  from 9 August 2007.
A previous decision by another ombudsman stated that the adviser should have 
reviewed the existing portfolio. In the case of Mr E, the adviser is Firm S.
COBS 2.4.4 means that, from the time it assumed responsibility for Mr Es portfolio 
on 9 August 2007, Firm S was responsible  for:
-the completeness and accuracy of any information about Mr E transmitted by it to 
Stuart Binns; and
-the suitability  for Mr E of any advice or recommendations  provided to him.
COBS 2.4.5 is pertinent  as Firm S was required under that rule to perform a 
suitability assessment and appropriateness assessment when Mr E became its client  
on 9 August 2007. A previous ombudsmans decision had stated that the adviser 
should have reviewed the existing  portfolio.
Ref: DRN35055314As a result of Stuart Binns  comments,  a request for information was submitted to Firm S for 
copies of any fact finds  completed for Mr E. And details of, and confirmation as to when, a 
thorough assessment of Mr Es investment holdings was carried out.  
Firm S responded to the request for information and confirmed that having searched its 
archives, it hasnt been able to locate any further information,  other  than what had already  
been sent to this service under the complaint that had previously  been  set up for Mr E 
against Firm S. 
As Firm S has been unable to provide copies of fact finds  for Mr E, Stuart  Binns believes this 
demonstrates that it failed  to carry out its statutory duty under COBS rule 2.4.5. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Stuart Binns provided  unsuitable advice to Mr E. And that it is therefore liable for losses 
suffered as a result  of this advice. Ive explained why below. 
Stuart Binns has made considerable  submissions and Ive read and considered everything 
its sent in. But I dont intend to respond  in similar detail. My provisional decision  sets out in 
full my reasons for upholding the complaint and those reasons still remain.  So, Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the new points. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because  I havent  seen it or thought about it. Instead,  its just that I dont 
feel the need to reference  it in order to explain my decision.  This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
jurisdiction to consider the complaint
I explained in my provisional decision  that Im satisfied this complaint falls within  the 
jurisdiction of this service. And I clarified  the reasons for this in a subsequent  letter  to Stuart 
Binns. However, Stuart Binns maintains that this service doesnt  have jurisdiction  to consider 
this matter. So Ive set out in detail why Im satisfied this is a complaint I can consider.
The rules  by which this service is bound are set out in the FCAs handbook  under the DISP  
section. DISP 2.8 2R states that:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination  or summary  resolution communication;  or
more than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
was the complaint referred within six months of Stuart Binns final response  letter?
Ref: DRN35055315Our rules state that, unless the business consents, I'm not allowed to consider a complaint 
which is referred to us more than six months after the date the final response  letter  is sent.
A final response is defined in the FCA handbook as a written  response from the firm which:
"(a) accepts  the complaint,  and, where  appropriate,  offers  redress,  or
(b)offers redress without  accepting the complaint: or
(c)rejects the complaint  and gives reasons for doing so:
and which  informs  the complainant  that,  if he remains  dissatisfied  with the 
firm's  response,  he may now refer  his complaint  to the Financial  
Ombudsman  Service  and must  do so within  six months  [my emphasis ]"
The guidance under  DISP  2.8.3  states:
 
The six-month time limit is only triggered  by a response which  is a final response. 
A final response must  tell the complainant  about the six-month time limit that the 
complainant has to refer a complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman  Service .
Ive carefully considered  the letters Stuart  Binns  issued in response to Mr Es complaints but 
none of them met the above  criteria of a final response.
In November 2010, Stuart Binns  issued a letter  in response to the concerns  Mr E had raised 
the month before at a social function. Although this letter addressed  some of the concerns, it 
didn't provide referral rights to this service. And so didnt start the six month  referral  period 
mentioned in the above rule.
Mr E complained again in 2013,  via a representative. Stuart Binns  responded in its letters  of 
13 April and 8 July 2013. It confirmed that it was rejecting the complaint and gave details as 
to why it didn't  think it had done  anything wrong.  However, again  neither of these letters  
included referral rights to our service.  So, they didn't meet the criteria of a final response.
I acknowledge that Mr E's representative  confirmed the intention to refer the matter to this 
service in its letter dated 21 October  2013. So Mr E may well have been aware of our 
service. But I don't  have  discretion when it comes  to our jurisdiction to consider a complaint; 
I must apply  the rules  as they are set out. And without having  been correctly informed of the 
time limit in which to make a referral to this service, the complaint responses can't be 
deemed final responses under our rules  and so the six month  time limit doesn't apply. 
I acknowledge that Stuart Binns considered the matter closed after it wrote  to Mr Es solicitor 
in November 2013 and didnt hear anything back. But this doesnt have a bearing on our 
jurisdiction to consider  the complaint. 
was the complaint referred within time under the six and three year part of our rules?
Im satisfied that Mr E complained within time under part two of the above rule. For 
completeness Ill explain  why I think this is the case.
Ref: DRN35055316Mr E complained that he was advised  to invest in funds that were  too high risk. That advice 
was provided in 2002. So, under the this part of the above rule, he had six years to 
complain. Its not in dispute that Mr E didnt complain within  six years. But the complaint can 
still be considered  if Im satisfied he complained within  three years  of when he was first 
aware, or ought  reasonably to have been  aware, of the cause for complaint.
Theres two things Ive considered here. Firstly, when did Mr E become aware, or ought  
reasonably to have  been  aware, of the cause for complaint? And secondly, when did he first 
raise concerns about the advice?
Mr E initially  received advice to invest £400,000,  split across the following funds:
£100,000 in the Healthcare and Leisure Property Fund (HLP);
£100,000 in the Capital  Appreciation Trust (CAT);
£200,000 in the Active Commercial Estates Trust (ACE).
I'm satisfied Mr E was prepared to take some degree of risk so I don't think small fluctuations 
in his fund values would have alerted him to the cause  for complaint. Having looked at how 
the funds performed, I can see that prior to October  2007, two of the funds had made a gain 
on the initial investment.  The HLP fund had made a loss of a little over 10% of the initial 
investment. But as Mr E was prepared to take a degree of risk, I dont think  this was enough  
to have alerted  him to the possibility that he may have been advised to invest in funds that 
were too high risk for him. 
It wasnt until January 2008,  at the earliest - when the ACE fund was suspended - that I think  
Mr E ought  to been aware that he was invested  in funds  that were  too high risk. So, Mr E 
had three  years from this point to raise his concerns.  
Ive thought about the fact that Mr E sought advice from another IFA in 2007. But Ive not 
seen anything to support  this being  as a result of concerns he had over the initial advice hed 
received. In fact, letters to Stuart  Binns imply that this was driven  by Mr Es wish to deal with 
a larger  IFA. Theres nothing to suggest  that the new IFA made Mr E aware of any concerns  
about the investments within Mr Es SIPP. And Im conscious that Mr E subsequently re-
employed the services  of Stuart Binns, which again suggests that he was unaware at that 
point that he may have  been given unsuitable advice. 
So having  considered everything, Im satisfied that it was January 2008, at the earliest, when 
Mr E ought  to have  first been  aware of the cause for complaint. 
Ive gone on to consider when Mr E first complained. I think  its important to explain that a 
complaint is defined within the DISP  rules as 'any oral or written expression  of 
dissatisfaction, whether  justified or not, from, or on behalf of, a person about  the provision of, 
or failure  to provide,  a financial service  or redress determination, which:
Alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) a financial loss, material distress or 
material inconvenience'
The rules  also say the time limits will have  been  complied with if the complainant made their 
complaint to the business or the ombudsman within that period and has written 
acknowledgment or some  other  record of the complaint having been  received. 
Ref: DRN35055317Having considered the correspondence on file, Im satisfied Mr E made a complaint about 
the advice he received  in October  2010  at a social function. In response  to this oral 
complaint, Stuart  Binns issued an acknowledgement letter in October 2010. And then 
addressed the concerns in its letter of 3 November 2010. 
I appreciate Stuart  Binns considers it wasnt until 2013 that Mr E raised concerns about the 
suitability of the advice he received. But the November 2010 letter  confirms  that Mr E had 
raised concerns  about the value  of his ACE investment and had said that Stuart Binns  had 
erred by recommending  it in 2002. This is clear evidence that he raised concerns orally to 
Stuart Binns about  the initial recommendation within three years  of when he first became 
aware of the cause  for complaint. Mr E may not have  then followed this matter up through  
his solicitor until a few years later. But as explained  above, the letter  Stuart Binns issued  in 
response to the complaint, wasnt a valid final response. And so the six month  referral  period 
to our service doesnt apply. 
Stuart Binns believes that this service was wrong initially to accept jurisdiction. It says it 
shouldve been  asked at the start of the process  if it consented to us considering the 
complaint. Its said this because it considers it wasnt until 2013  that Mr E first made a claim. 
However, as Ive explained  above,  Im satisfied  the concerns were first raised in 2010.  The 
initial adjudicator that considered the complaint  reviewed the events and letters  referenced  
above. She explained to Stuart Binns early on in our process that she was satisfied this 
service has jurisdiction, for the same reasons Ive explained. So, Stuart  Binns consent 
wasnt required as the complaint was referred within time.
Suitability of the investment  advice  in 2002
Following advice from Stuart Binns, Mr E transferred several personal pensions with a 
combined value  of just over £763,202  to a SIPP. He immediately took tax free cash of 
£189,000. Of the remaining funds, Mr E was advised to invest £400,000 in three  UCIS  with 
Close Property Investments. This represented 70% of his remaining pension fund. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that I was minded  to conclude that Mr E was 
given unsuitable  advice. One of the reasons for reaching this conclusion  was that 
Mr E didnt meet any of the exclusions that allowed UCIS to be promoted to him. 
The relevant  provisions are set out in my provisional  decision.  Essentially, I wasnt  
satisfied that Mr E was a certified high net worth individual or certified sophisticated 
investor.
Ive reconsidered  this point but remain of the view that Mr E didnt meet the criteria to allow 
the promotion of UCIS. The rules regarding the promotion of unregulated funds to retail 
clients are quite exact. They require specific forms to be completed  and signed  by the 
investor, certifying that they are either  a high net worth individual  or sophisticated invested. It 
was a pre-requisite of investing in UCIS that Mr E met one of these classifications.
FSMA 2000 (Promotion  of Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001 , which  
was relevant legislation at the time of advice, defined a certified sophisticated investor  as an 
individual who had signed, within the period of twelve months ending with the day on which  
the communication is made, a statement  in the following  terms: 
Sophisticated investors
Ref: DRN35055318I make this statement so that I can receive promotions which are exempt from the 
restriction on promotion of unregulated  schemes  in the Financial  Services  and 
Markets Act 2000. The exemption relates  to certified  sophisticated investors and I 
declare that I qualify  as such. I accept  that the schemes to which the promotions  will 
relate are not authorised or recognised for the purposes of that Act. I am aware  that it 
is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in advising 
on this kind of investment 
Further guidance provided that the statement was accompanied by an indication:  
(a) that it is exempt from the scheme promotion restriction  (in section 238 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) on the communication of invitations or 
inducements to participate in unregulated schemes  on the grounds that it is made  to 
a certified sophisticated  investor;
(b) of the requirements  that must be met for a person to qualify as a certified  
sophisticated investor;
(c) that buying  the units  to which  the communication relates may expose the 
individual to a significant risk of losing all of the property invested;
(d) that any individual who is in any doubt  about  the investment  to which  the invitation 
or inducement relates should consult  an authorised  person specialising in advising 
on investments of the kind in question.
Mr E didnt sign a sophisticated  investor statement that wouldve permitted the promotion 
of UCIS. Despite this, Stuart Binns maintains  that Mr E was both a sophisticated investor 
and a high net worth individual.  The main reasons being that his former occupation gave 
him the requisite knowledge and understanding of the property market.  And it says the 
bank account  he held demonstrated  that he was a high net worth individual. Stuart  Binns 
is also satisfied that Mr E signed numerous  times confirming  that he understood the risks 
involved. 
I acknowledge that Mr Es former occupation  as a solicitor  may have given  him an 
understanding of the commercial property field. And I accept that he was someone who 
should be able to understand the documentation given to him. But that doesnt mean he had 
a detailed understanding of these types  of investments or would fully comprehend the 
significance of some of the risks involved in investing in UCIS. Presumably Mr E sought 
advice, like most consumers generally  do, because he didnt have enough knowledge  or 
experience to make investment decisions unaided. 
In terms of whether  Mr E was a high net worth investor, Stuart Binns  failed to take the 
necessary steps  to verify  this. FSMA 2000 (Promotion of Collective Investment Schemes) 
(Exemptions) Order  2001 defined a certified high net worth individual as someone who, in 
the preceding  financial  year, had an annual income  of more than £100,000 or had net assets 
valued at £250,000. This needed to be verified  by the individuals accountant or employer. 
In determining an individuals net assets, no account was to be taken of:
(a) the property  which  is his primary residence  or of any loan secured on that residence;
(b) any rights of his under  a qualifying contract of insurance; or
Ref: DRN35055319(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the termination 
of his service or on his death or retirement  and to which he is (or his dependents  are), or 
may be, entitled.   
As with the certified sophisticated investor,  the rules also required that a specific  statement 
was signed. Mr E didnt  sign this statement  and without the necessary steps being taken, he 
couldnt be classed  as a high net worth investor. I appreciate what Stuart Binns has said 
about the bank account Mr E held. But I remain of the view that Mr E didnt fall into either of 
the categories that allowed UCIS  to be promoted to him. 
Ive also reconsidered  the risk warnings Mr E signed. They did little to highlight the inherent 
risks. In particular they failed to mention that they exposed Mr E to a significant risk of losing 
all hed invested. 
Details of how the schemes were  funded,  the levels of borrowing and the fact that they 
werent regulated  was detailed in the brochures.  But providing product literature explaining 
the features  and risks of an investment didnt mean that Stuart Binns  could recommend 
investments that were  clearly unsuitable  for Mr Es circumstances.  
I wouldve  expected  these risks to have been specifically drawn to Mr Es attention.  Close 
Property Investments  letter does  explain  the funding of the schemes to some extent. But 
there is no mention  that the schemes  arent regulated and so dont provide the usual 
consumer protection  available through  the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. And I 
cant see that Stuart Binns drew Mr Es attention to this either.  
This wasnt a case where Stuart Binns was acting on a non-advised basis.  It wasnt merely 
promoting these  schemes  to Mr E. It advised  him to invest  a substantial proportion  of his 
portfolio in them. That is significant. So irrespective of his former occupation (which wasnt in 
financial services), and ability to understand the risks involved, Stuart Binns  had a duty to 
provide suitable  advice.
 
I acknowledge that Stuart Binns sent a letter  to Mr E clarifying exactly what  he wished for 
from his pension fund,  that being  maximum tax-free  cash and maximum return  on his 
investment. And the letter confirmed that Mr E had wished to invest in commercial property. 
Its right that when making a recommendation, Stuart Binns  needed to take account  of 
Mr Es investment objectives. But it also needed to consider  Mr Es capacity for loss and 
overall circumstances.  
Mr E was already retired and was drawing income  from his pension. So he had little time to 
make up any losses  that he may suffer. Stuart  Binns  has said that it carried out its own 
assessment of the investments.  And that it considered them to be lower risk than investing in 
equities, given  the volatility in the equities market  at the time. 
I acknowledge what Stuart Binns  has said about the advice being given at a time when the 
investment market was volatile. It was also before the financial crisis so the effect of this on 
the commercial property market was unknown at that time. But these property funds werent  
regulated. As a result, they inherently  carried greater risk that all Mr Es capital  could be lost.  
And I think that advising Mr E to invest 70% of his remaining pension  funds  in such  high risk 
investments was unsuitable. There  needed  to be a balance with other  things that had a 
lower degree of risk so that the combined risk was right for Mr Es circumstances.
Ref: DRN350553110When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take into 
account not only relevant law and regulations, but also regulators  guidance  and standards, 
codes of practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In July 2010 the Financial Services Authority (as it was) issued a good and poor practice 
report in relation to promoting and providing  investment advice on UCIS. A highlighted 
example of good practice was a firm establishing  a maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS 
investments within  their clients portfolio of between 3  5%. 
While this report was issued in 2010, several  years after Mr E received advice, I think  this 
reinforces my conclusion  that recommending Mr E invest 70% of his portfolio in three  UCIS  
simply wasnt suitable. 
When did Firm  S assume responsibility for Mr Es investments?
I said in my provisional decision that I was minded  to conclude  that Firm S didnt have 
authority to make any changes to the SIPP  until the transfer finalised on 28 December 
2007. Dealing in the ACE fund was suspended in mid-January 2008 and I didnt  think  it 
was realistic to expect  Firm S to have made  significant changes to the SIPP  or to have 
assessed the suitability  of the ACE fund, in what was a fairly short period, before the 
fund was suspended.
Stuart Binns continues to argue that investment outsourcing to Firm S occurred on 
9 August 2007,  when it says the transfer  of assets  was initiated. In particular,  it has 
referenced rules within the regulators handbook in support of its argument. But having 
reconsidered everything on file, I remain of the view that Stuart Binns is responsible  for 
the losses Mr E suffered  as a result  of the ACE fund being suspended.
Stuart Binns has highlighted COBS 2.4 set out in the FCAs handbook, in particular 2.4.4 
and 2.4.5. Ive carefully considered these rules  but they dont change my decision.   
Reliance on other  investment firms:  MiFID and equivalent business
COBS 2.4.4R
(1)This rule applies if a firm (F1), in the course of performing MiFID  or equivalent 
third country business, receives  an instruction to perform an investment  or 
ancillary service  on behalf of a client (C) through another firm (F2) [my 
emphasis], if F2 is:
(d)an investment firm that is:
(i) a firm or authorised in another EEA State;  and
(ii) subject to equivalent relevant requirements.
(3) F2 will remain responsible for:
(a)the completeness and accuracy of any information about C transmitted by it to 
F1; and
Ref: DRN350553111(b) the appropriateness for C of any advice or recommendations provided to C.
I agree  with Stuart Binns that under the above  rule, Stuart Binns  would be F1, Firm S would 
be F2 and Mr E would  be C. But as can be seen from my emphasis  of the above rule, it only 
applies when F2 provides  an instruction  to F1. Ive not seen any evidence that Firm S gave  
Stuart Binns any instructions to perform  an investment or ancillary service  on Mr Es behalf.  
I dont dispute  that Firm S was aware  by the end of August 2007 of the investments Mr E 
held in his SIPP. Ive seen a letter from Firm A notifying Firm S that the SIPP held both the 
HLP and ACE funds at that time. But Stuart Binns arranged for the sale of the HLP fund in 
October 2007. Ive not seen anything to suggest this was done on the instruction of Firm S. 
So it seems  Stuart Binns was still advising Mr E on his investments  as late as October  2007.  
And so, could also have  arranged  for the ACE fund to be sold at this time, had it wished to 
do so. 
I also explained that Firm S was entitled  to accept in-specie transfers into its managed-out 
portfolio before assessing their suitability.  I know that Firm S advised  Stuart Binns that upon 
taking responsibility  for clients, on the discretionary side,  it had a responsibility to make  sure 
the client was invested in suitable funds. I agree that this is the case. But Firm S had no 
discretion over the ACE fund; it was transferred over to a managed-out portfolio and didnt 
form part of the discretionary  account that Firm S was managing  for Mr E. 
Investments within the managed-out portfolio were managed by the client or their authorised  
representative, which in this case was Mr E and Stuart Binns. 
I accept that Firm S had a duty to advise Mr E if it considered any investments in his 
managed-out portfolio  were unsuitable.  But as the ACE fund didnt transfer into Firm Ss 
custody until 28 December 2007, there  was insufficient time prior to the fund being 
suspended, for it to assess its suitability and arrange  a meeting with Mr E and Stuart  Binns 
to discuss whether it should be retained.
Stuart Binns suggests  that Firm S took responsibility for Mr Es investment advice on 9 
August 2007.  But I think Firms  Ss letter, dated 7 August 2007, makes  it clear that its only 
once the funds have been transferred to the new SIPP and its appointed as the DFM, that 
its responsible. Stuart Binns forwarded  a copy of this letter  to Mr E on 9 August 2007. 
Firm A confirmed that the funds werent  transferred to the new SIPP provider until 9 
November 2007,  so this is the earliest  date it could be said that Firm S was responsible.  
However, as Ive said above, it was not until 28 December 2007  that the ACE fund was 
transferred to Firm Ss custody.
Stuart Binns has highlighted a decision by an ombudsman  here at the service  on another  
complaint. It says this is an example of when  it was decided that the new advising firm 
shouldve reviewed the existing portfolio. As Stuart Binns will be aware, each case is 
decided on its own merit. There are instances  where  similar circumstances mean that the 
same approach will apply. However,  the case Stuart  Binns has referenced differs  
substantially from that of Mr E. In that case the new advisers recommended  further 
investment into the existing investment,  presumably after it had assessed it and considered 
it was suitable  for that particular client. 
Stuart Binns is concerned that Firm S has been unable  to provide copies of any fact-finds  it 
completed for Mr E. But I dont think this necessarily means that it failed to carry out its 
statutory duties. And as this service is unable to consider  a complaint for Mr E against Firm 
S, its not appropriate  to comment further  regarding  this particular aspect. In any event, 
Ref: DRN350553112whether Firm S carried out its statutory duties has no bearing on the outcome of this 
complaint. Ive already explained  that Im satisfied there  was insufficient time for Firm S to 
assess the suitability  of the ACE fund and to arrange a meeting with Mr E and Stuart  Binns, 
before the fund was suspended. 
I appreciate that it was Stuart Binns intention that going forward  responsibility for 
investment advice would be provided  by Firm S. But the delay in the transfer 
completing meant that it took longer than anticipated for this to happen.  I explained 
previously that Stuart Binns is free to pursue independent action outside of our service 
if it considers any of the other parties involved are also responsible for the loss Mr E 
suffered. 
But in this case, I conclude that holding Stuart  Binns responsible for the whole  of the 
loss is appropriate  in all the circumstances, and for the reasons Ive set out both here 
and in my provisional  decision.
Mr Es SIPP  provider has told us that the ACE fund has been written off and is no longer 
part of the SIPP. As such, the fund should be treated as having a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating Mr Es financial loss.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs E should be put as closely as possible into the position shed probably 
now be in if Mr E had been  given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr E would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr E's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
What should Stuart Binns do?
To compensate Mr E fairly,  Stuart  Binns must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr E's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, there  is a gain.  Losses and gains should then be combined. If there is an 
overall loss, that is the amount of compensation payable.
Stuart Binns should  add interest  as set out below.  
If there is a loss, Stuart Binns should pay such amount as may be required 
allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to be the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Healthcare 
and Leisure  
surrenderedFTSE UK 
Private date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any 
Ref: DRN350553113Property 
FundInvestors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexloss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Capital  
Appreciation 
Trust 
surrenderedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Active  
Commercial  
Estates  Truststill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr E paid into the investment should  be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point  on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep  calculations simpler,  Ill accept if Stuart Binns totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr E wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
Ref: DRN350553114The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr E's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision  
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Stuart Binns & Associates should pay 
Mrs E the amount produced by that calculation   up to a maximum of £150,000 plus any 
interest set out above. 
Stuart Binns & Associates  should provide details of its calculation  to Mrs E in a clear, simple 
format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Stuart  Binns  & Associates pays Mrs E the balance plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Stuart Binns  
& Associates. It is unlikely  that Mrs E can accept my decision and go to court  to ask for the 
balance. Mrs E may want to consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding  
whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2020.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN350553115Provisional decision  31 January 2020
complaint
The late Mr E complained about  the advice he was given by Stuart  Binns & Associates 
in relation to his self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). He said he was advised to 
invest a large part of his pension in a high risk and highly-geared commercial property 
portfolio.
Prior to his death,  Mr Es son was acting as a representative for his father in this 
matter. His son now continues the complaint on behalf of his father and his mother, 
who is the sole beneficiary of the SIPP.
Stuart Binns is being represented in the complaint by a third party  but for ease of reading  the 
decision Ill refer to all representations as having  been made by Stuart Binns.
background
In 2002, Mr E held personal pension plans with four different providers. As a result  of 
advice from Stuart Binns, he transferred these into a SIPP  with a provider that Ill refer to 
as Firm A. The SIPP was set up with Mr E acting a trustee.  After taking his tax-free cash, 
Mr E was advised by Stuart Binns  to invest the remaining money held in the SIPP  in 
three funds  operated by Close Property Investment:
£100,000 in the Healthcare and Leisure Property Fund (HLP);
£100,000 in the Capital  Appreciation Trust (CAT);
£200,000 in the Active Commercial Estates Trust (ACE).
In October  2006 Stuart Binns  wrote to Mr E to update him on his Close Property 
Investments. This letter stated that the ACE fund should be retained.  It explained  that 
the HLP fund was slow to perform so it recommended Mr E switched to a Close  
Property Investment  Portfolio fund. It also explained that the Board of the CAT fund had 
decided to sell and that the funds  would be available for reinvestment shortly.  The CAT 
funds were disinvested  in December 2006.
In early 2007 Mr E sought advice from another independent financial adviser (IFA). 
He explained to Stuart Binns  at the time that this was solely  due to him wishing to 
have his pension  dealt with by a larger company.  However, the new IFA to Mr Es
correspondence so he reappointed Stuart Binns  in June 2007.
At this point Stuart  Binns  wrote to Mr E and explained that it no longer considered it the 
role of an IFA to handle the process  of risk management and asset allocation. So it 
recommended that he have his SIPP managed  by a discretionary fund manager (DFM), 
from here on referred to as Firm S.
Mr E and Stuart Binns met with Firm S, after which Firm S issued a letter, dated 9 
August 2007,  setting  out its investment objectives  for Mr E. Mr E agreed to proceed 
with Firm S acting as his DFM.
Ref: DRN350553116It had also been  agreed that Mr E would transfer to a new SIPP provider with lower 
costs and this process started in August 2007.  The HLP fund was encashed on 26 
October 2007. The ACE assets were re-registered to the new SIPP  provider in 
November 2007  but it was subsequently  discovered  that they had been re-registered 
incorrectly. So Firm S didnt receive  the assets until December 2007 and on 15 January 
2008 the ACE fund was suspended.
Mr E initially  raised concerns in 2010 when  he met the adviser from Stuart Binns  at a 
social function. Stuart Binns responded to his concerns at that time. Mr E subsequently 
submitted a written  complaint to Stuart Binns in February 2013.
Stuart Binns didnt uphold  the complaint. It said Mr E had rejected advice to invest in a 
trustee portfolio  bond, and instead chose to invest in three property funds, including the 
ACE fund. At the time these funds were cautious  investments.
Mr E referred his complaint against Stuart Binns to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
in March 2015. He also asked us to consider a complaint against Firm S. However, 
the complaint  against Firm S was deemed  to have been made too late under our rules  
and so couldnt be considered.
Initially Stuart Binns objected to the complaint being considered  as it thought  that it had 
also been made too late under our rules. However, this was investigated and the 
adjudicator concluded that the complaint to Stuart Binns had been made in time and so 
the merits could  be considered.
Having reviewed the available information, our adjudicator thought the complaint  
should succeed. She didnt think it was suitable  advice for a large  part of Mr Es 
pension to have  been invested in the property  funds as this wasnt in line with the 
cautious approach  he wanted  to take.  She understood these were  all unregulated 
investments, and the ACE fund would borrow around 60% of the value of the 
underlying properties. She also didnt think Stuart Binns was permitted to promote  such 
funds to Mr E, as the latter  wasnt a high net worth individual or a sophisticated  
investor.
Stuart Binns didnt accept  the adjudicators view. In response, it said:
Mr E was retired solicitor, and so was someone used to reading and 
understanding detailed information. He was also advised by his brother, 
an accountant.
The adviser  reviewed  the market for an impaired life annuity. But as Mr Es 
wife was younger than him and healthy,  this wasnt appropriate. Also,  Mr 
Es original objective was to keep control  of his pension monies  through  a 
SIPP.
Mr E confirmed  in the application for the investments that hed read the risk 
factors in the prospectus. He didnt question Stuart Binns over any part of 
the prospectus.
Mr E attended a meeting with its adviser and a director of Close Property  
Investment to discuss the funds.
While  he may not have been  experienced in the equity market, he was an 
experienced commercial  solicitor. Stuart  Binns didnt agree that it wasnt  
allowed to promote  or recommend the investments to Mr E. Also,  his wife 
had an investment portfolio in excess of £300,000.
Ref: DRN350553117The way Mr Es attitude to risk was assessed was different in 2002 than it 
would be today.
The fact that the investments showed  a handsome and safe return up to 
the 2008 banking crisis  shows  they were suitable for Mr E.
As a trustee of his SIPP Mr E wasnt considered a retail investor. It 
believes that the regulator decided  in 2007 that financial  advisers  should  
consider the trustee  as a client.
Mr E dispensed with Stuart  Binns  services in 2007, and sought  advice  
from a new IFA. He then re-appointed  Stuart Binns to act on his behalf  
shortly afterwards. Its reasonable to assume the new IFA assessed  Mr 
Es investments,  and approved  of them. If not, it would have advised Mr E 
to change the investments.
Mr E later decided to seek advice from Firm S, which  would also act as a 
DFM. The investments were transferred to Firm S in specie. At that point, 
the ACE fund was showing  a profit and could be sold.
Stuart Binns didnt  participate in giving Mr E any advice after this. This 
evidence is critical,  as it concerns which party should be responsible for Mr 
Es subsequent  loss.
All this time Mr E continued  to receive  a substantial income from his 
property investments. The gearing  on the ACE fund gave Mr E a high 
income return and a substantial capital gain.
The adjudicator considered the points Stuart Binns  had made,  but explained that these 
didnt change her opinion. She didnt think the fact Mr E was a trustee  of his own SIPP  
meant he didnt have to be treated as a retail customer. And it remained her view that he 
wasnt someone to whom UCIS investments should have been promoted. She noted that 
Mr E had engaged  Firm S to act as DFM for his SIPP. But she didnt think this business 
had sufficient time to advise Mr E to dispose  of his holding in the ACE fund before 
dealing in the fund was suspended. So she didnt think  liability for the loss Mr E has 
sustained in relation to the ACE fund should  fall to Firm S.
Stuart Binns maintained that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In addition  to 
reiterating many of the point previously made, it also raised  some  further  points:
Mr E was a high net worth individual and a sophisticated investor. He 
confirmed this when  applying for the investments.
Mr E wanted the highest level of income,  which demonstrates he wasnt 
looking for a low risk investment. He was a senior partner  of his legal 
practice with a multi-million pound  turnover. And he had good knowledge of 
the property market, which would have enabled him to understand the risks 
involved in the ACE fund.
It wasnt until the ACE fund was suspended that Mr E had any concerns  
about the advice hed received from Stuart  Binns.
The consensus of experts prior to the 2007  global financial crisis  was that 
this type of investment wasnt subject to stock  market volatility.  As such,  it 
was suitable for Mr E. And he was already  intent  on investing in property 
before he was given  any advice.  So it cant be said he relied on the advice.
The adjudicator  was wrong  to say that shares  in the ACE fund were 
highly illiquid. The shares will normally be sold back to the issuer. The 
two other  property funds were  realised and the proceeds retained in Mr 
Es SIPP.
Ref: DRN350553118Stuart Binns had advised Mr E in 2006 that he should have  a complete 
review of the asset allocation. It suggested  management of the fund by a 
DFM and it recommended Firm S, having earlier advised Mr E that it was 
no longer the job of an IFA to manage  client investments; this should  fall to 
a DFM. There was no ongoing investment  contract arrangement with Stuart 
Binns after Mr E instructed Firm S in August 2007.
Legal responsibility for investments  in the SIPP passed to Firm S towards  
the end of 2007. The evidence indicates  that Firm S had all the information 
it needed to advise before the end of 2007.  But in the case of the Close  
investments it was in July 2007.  Firm Ss contract with Mr E clearly 
indicated it would  advise him of problems  concerning any of the funds 
being placed in its care. It follows that before  the end of 2007 if Stuart 
Binns had any duty to foresee the possible collapse of the ACE fund and to 
advise accordingly,  that duty ended in August 2007.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service should  disclose material  relating to its 
consideration of the complaint against  Firm S as theres a likelihood that it 
was based on flawed information.
The matter  has now been passed to me for consideration.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to 
uphold the complaint.
Firstly, Id like to clarify the situation  in relation to the complaint against  Firm S. I 
appreciate that Stuart Binns  feels this service should  disclose material  relating to its 
consideration of the complaint against  Firm S. However, as Ive mentioned above, the 
complaint was deemed by the adjudicator to have  been made out of time under our rules  
because Mr E didnt complain to Firm S until 2017.  A business can consent to us 
considering a complaint that is brought too late, but Firm S didnt consent.
This matter was resolved informally by the adjudicator without the need for a decision 
from an ombudsman. It was determined  that this service was unable  to consider the 
merits of the complaint against Firm S.
This is contrary  to the situation with Stuart Binns  where there  is evidence  to show  that 
Mr E initially  raised concerns in 2010, within three years of the ACE fund being 
suspended. Im therefore satisfied that the complaint has been referred within time 
under our rules and so the merits of the complaint against Stuart Binns can be 
considered.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I 
am required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules,  
guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to have  been good industry 
practice at the time.
what did Stuart Binns do?
In April 2002, Stuart Binns met with Mr E to discuss his pension provision. Mr E 
held personal  pension plans with four different providers.
Ref: DRN350553119Theres little documentary evidence  of what was discussed at the time.  Ive seen some 
handwritten notes of a meeting that took place  in April 2002 between  Mr E and Stuart  
Binns. But these  are fairly brief and dont provide  much insight into what  was discussed.  
It seems  the possibility of Mr E taking an annuity was considered. But ultimately his 
pensions were transferred  into a SIPP with Firm B in May 2002. The SIPP  was set up 
with Mr E as a trustee.
There appears to have been  a further  meeting with Mr E and his brother in July 
2002 to discuss  the options for the SIPP. Stuart  Binns has said that Mr E favoured 
investing in commercial property. But Ive not seen a documentary record  of this 
meeting.
Stuart Binns then wrote  to Mr E in August 2002  to set out how the SIPP might be 
invested. The adviser noted that Mr E felt it was necessary to receive the maximum 
income within the Inland Revenue rules and to provide protection  for his wife if he 
should die before her. The letter included the following paragraph:
A cautious approach  to investing is recommended although I accept your wish to enter  
the equity market to take advantage of its rise to the previous peak  assuming it does 
repeat what has happened  over many decades. You are aware  that markets  rise and 
fall and that capital values  and income  from investments  are not guaranteed unless 
specified. Rather than buying individual shares  (where you would need to hold between 
70-80 to provide an acceptable level of diversification for spreading investment risk, it is 
suggested that you consider using collective investments where the management is 
handled by institutions. In effect you would be taking deposit  monies  and reinvesting in 
investments similar  to the various  pension accounts  from which the deposits came.
The adviser also said that in trying  to reduce volatility on capital values it would be 
prudent to allocate a proportion of the fund to property.
A meeting then took place  in August 2002  between Stuart Binns  and Mr E, which was 
also attended by a director of Close Property Investment. There doesnt seem to be a 
record of what was discussed, but a few days later the director  wrote to Stuart Binns. 
This noted that Mr E had been interested in developing a property-based portfolio 
orientated towards  high income. The letter contained examples of how Mr Es capital  
could be invested  across three property funds. The director said he believed Mr E had 
already seen the investment literature  for the funds, but also summarised  the activities  
of the three funds.
The Stuart Binns adviser wrote to Mr E a couple of days later saying hed left a 
message to suggest a meeting to progress the investment of Mr Es fund. Since then 
hed received the letter from the director of Close Property Investment, which he 
enclosed. The adviser said hed be happy to discuss  this with Mr E. Its not clear what 
further discussion, if any, took place.
On 22 October 2002, Mr E sent a letter  to the SIPP provider confirming that he 
wished to invest £400,000 in Close Property  Investment, split between the funds as 
noted above.
Ref: DRN350553120what should Stuart Binns have done?
At the relevant time, the rules  were set out in the regulators handbook. Of particular 
relevance were of the Conduct of Business rules  (dated July 2002). Under these rules 
Stuart Binns had an obligation to comply with the regulations, which included COB 5.2  
to know its client, COB  5.3  to give suitable advice  and COB 5.4  to act in its clients 
best interest.
These rules applied to firms that gave personal recommendations concerning  
designated investments  to private  customers.  Private customers  were defined  in the 
rules at that time as:
a client who is not a market counterparty  or an intermediate customer, including:
(a) an individual who is not a firm;
Mr E wasnt  a market counter party and he could only be classified as an 
intermediate customer if Stuart  Binns  had determined  that he had sufficient 
experience and understanding to be classified as such. And under the rules  for 
intermediate customer,  Stuart Binns also had to:
4.1.9 (1) A firm may classify a client who would otherwise  be a private customer 
as an intermediate customer if:
(a)the firm has taken  reasonable  care to determine  that the client  has 
sufficient experience and understanding to be classified  as an intermediate 
customer; and
(b)the firm:
(i)has given a written warning to the client of the protections under the 
regulatory system  that he will lose;
(ii)has given  the client sufficient time to consider the implications of 
being classified as an intermediate customer; and
(iii)has obtained the clients written  consent,  or is otherwise able to 
demonstrate that informed consent  has been  given.
Ive noted the points  Stuart Binns has made  about Mr E being a trustee  of his SIPP. But 
having considered the rules from the time,  I dont  agree this meant he shouldnt  have 
been treated as a private customer.  If Stuart Binns intended to act differently, Mr E 
shouldve been  provided with the appropriate terms of business or client agreement. Ive 
not seen evidence that this was provided,  or that Mr E was given any warning about any 
protections that he would  lose under the regulatory system. And in any event, I dont 
think Mr Es previous occupation as a solicitor meant that he should be treated differently 
to other  private customers.
Ref: DRN350553121Stuart Binns therefore  had a duty to provide Mr E with suitable  advice.  As noted above, 
Stuart Binns obtained  some information about Mr Es circumstances during a meeting in 
April 2002. But this wasnt very extensive.  Stuart Binns doesnt appear to have  carried 
out a thorough fact-finding exercise. While this wasnt a regulatory  requirement, I think 
this would be normal business practice  to ensure it knew its customer, particularly when 
considering something  as important as Mr Es future pension provision.
It also doesnt appear that Stuart  Binns undertook a formal assessment  of Mr Es 
tolerance and capacity for risk in relation to his pension.  I note it says the way risk was 
assessed was different  in 2002  to how its done  now. But while  there may be different  
methods a financial business can now use, making such an assessment has always 
been a key factor when giving financial advice. I accept some form of discussion on the 
subject of risk did take place. The advisers  letter to Mr E in August 2002 suggests that a 
cautious approach  to investing was recommended, but Mr E wanted to take advantage  of 
the equity market.
Ive not seen evidence Mr E was sent a suitability letter in which  Stuart Binns  set out 
the reasoning  behind  him transferring his pension plans into a SIPP  and how the SIPP 
should be invested.
I appreciate Mr E attended a meeting where  a director of Close  Property Investment was 
present, and that the various funds wouldve been  discussed at this point. But I dont 
think this wouldve allowed Mr E to have a full understanding of the risks involved. Its 
likely the director would,  unsurprisingly, have given a positive view of the funds offered 
by his company.  As such, Im not convinced  Mr E wouldve received a full or impartial  
description of the risks.
Im also conscious that Stuart Binns  seems  to have simply  passed  on the letter  it 
received from the director to Mr E without comment. So, I think  it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr E to assume that investing along  the lines suggested  in the directors 
letter was being  endorsed  by his adviser.  There  was nothing  in the letter,  and there 
seems to have been no further communication between the adviser  and Mr E, in which 
the suitability of these investments and the risks they posed were  discussed.
As the adjudicator noted, all three of the property funds were  unregulated collective 
investment schemes  (UCIS). There were rules in place at the time restricting  to whom  
such investments could be promoted  or recommended. Essentially, s238 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) prohibited authorised firms from 
promoting UCIS except  where:
(i)An exemption in the FSMA 2000  (Promotion of Collective Investment 
Schemes) (Exemptions)  Order 2001  (the Order) applies;  or
(ii)An exemption under COB 3 in the FCA Handbook (then FSA Handbook) applies.
Promoting, in this context, means  the communication,  in the course  of business, 
of an invitation  or inducement to engage in investment activity in relation to UCIS.
At the time,  the Order  permitted the promotion to certain individuals, including the following:
Certified high net worth individuals (art 21);
Certified sophisticated investors (art 23);
Ref: DRN350553122The circumstances in which COB 3 permitted the promotion of UCIS included  promotion to:
Category 1: A person  who is already,  or has been in the last 30 months, a 
participant in a UCIS;
Category 2: A person  for whom  the authorised person has taken reasonable 
steps to ensure that the scheme  is suitable  and who is either an established 
client or a newly accepted client  of the authorised person,  or of a firm in the 
same group  as the authorised person;
Category 6: An exempt  person,  if the promotion relates  to a regulated 
activity in respect of which  the person is exempt;
Category 7: An eligible counterparty or professional  client.
Stuart Binns doesnt  seem to have undertaken  the relevant steps required by the rules 
to ensure it could promote  UCIS  to Mr E. It didnt certify him as a high net worth 
individual. Nor did it certify him as a sophisticated investor.
Ive therefore  considered  the available evidence of Mr Es circumstances in 2002,  but I 
dont think he falls within any of the above  categories of investor. He doesnt  seem to 
have had any substantial  savings or investments apart from his pension fund. I note 
Stuart Binns wrote to Mr E in May 2003.  While  this letter mainly related to his pension, 
the subject of inheritance tax was also referred  to. But this indicated that Mr Es main 
asset was his home, owned equally with his wife. Stuart Binns says Mr Es wife had a 
large investment portfolio.  But this wasnt relevant to Mr E, and the assessment 
shouldve been  based purely  on his circumstances.
And Mr E doesnt appear to have  been  a sophisticated investor.  Ive not seen evidence  
hed invested  previously in high risk products such as UCIS. And I dont think  his former 
occupation wouldve  given him requisite knowledge to adequately understand the risks 
associated with investing in unregulated pooled investments. Stuart Binns  adviser 
seems to have acknowledged in his email to this service on 3 August 2016 that Mr E 
was experienced in financial matters related to commercial property investment. I 
accept that he may not have been experienced in the equity market .
Ive thought about the fact that Mr E was a trustee  of his own SIPP  and that he signed 
the application form for the exempt trust.  However, although Mr E has signed to say 
that he would qualify as an experienced investor,  Ive seen nothing to support this 
being the case.
I acknowledge that Mr Es brother was present  at many of the meetings and that he was 
a qualified account. However, this again  doesnt  mean that Mr E shouldve been  classed  
as a sophisticated investor. Nor do I think that having his brother present at the meetings 
absolves Stuart Binns from its responsibility to comply with the regulations  in place at the 
time. Overall, Im satisfied  that Stuart  Binns  wasnt permitted by the rules to promote  
UCIS to Mr E in 2002.
Even where  it is permitted  for an unregulated investment to be recommended  
to a consumer, it must also be a suitable  investment.
I note Stuart Binns says the funds were  regarded as low risk in 2002, and it has 
provided an example  of an item from the financial press which supports this. But Stuart 
Binns was required  to form its own view of the risks posed by the investments, and in 
particular if these were compatible  with their client.
Ref: DRN350553123All three were UCIS, and so didnt have the protection provided by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme for regulated investments. Ive also considered the 
nature of the funds and the underlying  investments within them,  based  on the 
information in the Close Property  Investment directors letter.
The HLP Fund was being launched that week.  It would have an identical strategy  to that 
adopted by Close Brothers Venture  Capital Trust (VCT), although the fund wasnt  a 
VCT. It would  be investing in budget hotels, specialist nursing  homes,  leisure centres 
and small residential housing areas. Investments  would be made  into these projects  
through new special purpose vehicle companies funded by a mixture of loan notes and 
equities. The loan notes would provide the projected  income,  with capital growth  being  
generated by the disposal  of the projects once they were up and running.
The CAT Fund could  acquire  vacant flats in retirement homes  cheaply,  owing  to the lack 
of a developed secondary market. The refurbished properties could then be let out on life 
tenancies to occupants in their mid-70s, which would allow recovery  of some  67% of the 
cost. The fund could  expect actuarially to recover possession of the flats in around ten 
years time. This would  achieve a 300%  increase in the value  of the property  compared  
with the net investment left in the flat.
The ACE Fund acquired commercial properties  (probably  mostly offices  with some 
shops) that are multi-let but on extended tenancies. The properties may generate  a 
rental yield of 7% to 8% a year. The fund would borrow around  60% of the purchase  
prices and could  currently  obtain funding at around 5.5%. This could greatly  increase 
the income return.
Capital growth comes  from active management  of either  the property itself or the 
occupant. So, the growth  may come  from improving  the facilities of the property or 
buying car parking spaces etc. It may also come from rent reviews  or lease extensions.
On the whole, I think the funds were fairly speculative in nature. They required a 
number of factors to be favourable in order to be successful. Also,  one of the funds 
involved a significant  degree of borrowing. So, in addition  to the fact these were 
unregulated funds, I think they posed  a significant degree of risk.
Ive noted the comments  by Stuart Binns about the liquidity  of these funds. But its a 
fairly widely known  fact that trading  in commercial property funds can become subject to 
suspension in times  of adverse market  movements. Realising such  investments at short 
notice can be problematic, and possibly uneconomic. For instance, I note the literature 
for the ACE Fund confirms that no units will be issued or redeemed  during any period 
when the net asset value is suspended. As such, I think it was fair for the adjudicator to 
describe the funds as potentially illiquid.
Im also mindful that something like 70% of Mr Es pension fund was invested in the three 
funds. The advisers  letter to Mr E in August  2002  refers to providing  diversification. But, 
as a consequence of the investments  made  in 2002,  a significant proportion  of the 
pension fund was concentrated  in one investment sector - commercial  property. I dont  
think this was suitable if Mr E did want to take a cautious to medium, or even medium,  
approach to investing.
Ref: DRN350553124In short,  a substantial  proportion of Mr Es SIPP was invested in three UCIS funds, all 
investing in commercial property. For the reasons Ive explained, Stuart Binns  shouldnt  
have recommended these investments to Mr E, and should instead have advised him to 
invest his pension differently.
what would  Mr E have done?
Stuart Binns says Mr E was already interested in investing in property,  before he was 
given any advice. Ive not seen evidence  to support this. In fact, according to the 
advisers letter in August  2002 Mr E was expressing  a preference for equity 
investments.
But even if I accept that Mr E had shown an interest in investing in property, this didnt 
take away the obligation placed on Stuart  Binns to give him suitable advice, taking 
account of his circumstances and requirements. Neither did the fact that Mr E signed to 
say that he understood the risks involved.
Stuart Binns also says Mr E didnt question it over any parts of the investments 
prospectus. But I think this indicates he trusted  Stuart Binns as his professional financial 
advisers, to give him advice that was in his best interests. And I think  this was a 
reasonable position for him to take.
On balance, I think Mr E would have followed the advice  he was given by Stuart  Binns 
had he been advised to invest differently.
what about the role of the new IFA?
Stuart Binns argues that even if its found  to be responsible for giving unsuitable 
advice in 2002  which I appreciate it rejects  its liability for any loss should  cease  
when Mr E engaged  other advisers  in relation to his SIPP. Ive considered this point.
Mr E wrote to Stuart Binns in October 2006. He said he hadnt heard from them for a 
long time and had decided  to take a second opinion on his investments, naming a 
different firm of advisers. He said at that stage it was only a review and hed keep Stuart 
Binns posted.
In February 2007,  Mr E wrote again  to Stuart Binns. He said that, as they were  aware,  
hed been considering new advisers for some time as he felt he needed more  back up 
than Stuart Binns could  offer. Hed therefore  instructed an IFA with another business to 
take over.
Stuart Binns adviser replied shortly after. He said that over the last two years  hed been 
recommending clients  have their funds  managed  by a firm of investment managers. He 
said he no longer  believed it was the role of an IFA, no matter how big or small,  to 
handle the complex  process of risk management  and asset allocation.  This remained his 
current recommendation. He said he hadnt heard from Mr Es new IFA.
Mr E responded to confirm he hadnt  terminated  the connection because of any 
dissatisfaction. He simply wanted to deal with a larger organisation. But I note Mr E 
wrote to the new IFA in June 2007,  saying hed not received a reply  to the letter  hed 
sent in April.
Ref: DRN350553125This was despite him sending a second letter in May expressing his alarm that things 
werent progressing  at all. He said he wasnt prepared to wait two months for replies to 
his letters, and detected a lack of interest on the new IFAs part. Hed therefore 
persuaded Stuart Binns to continue  handling his SIPP. Mr E wrote to the SIPP 
provider the same day confirming hed decided  to re-appoint Stuart Binns as his 
pension adviser.
Ive also seen a letter to Mr E from the IFA hed intended to appoint.  This accepted that 
it had failed to keep him informed. There had been a plan to move  the investments  Mr 
E held in his SIPP  to a new plan, but the necessary documentation was never  received  
from the SIPP provider.  The IFA said they truly believed  they wouldve been  able to 
offer the right solution  for Mr E had the assets been  transferred to the new SIPP.
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think the new IFA Mr E appointed in early  2007  ever 
truly took over responsibility for advising him on his SIPP.  And it seems it was what  Mr E 
saw as the lack of activity on the IFAs part that caused him to revert back  to Stuart 
Binns. As such, I dont think liability for any loss caused by Stuart Binns advice should 
cease when Mr E corresponded with the new IFA.
what about the role of Firm S and the delay in the ACE fund being transferred?
In late July 2007, at the recommendation of Stuart  Binns, Mr E signed Firm Ss 
account opening forms, appointing Firm S to act as DFM for his SIPP. These  forms 
also authorised  Stuart Binns to deal in investments  on Mr Es behalf via Firm Ss 
administration system.
Stuart Binns also arranged for Mr Es SIPP to be moved  to a new provider around this time.
Firm S wrote to Stuart Binns in August 2007,  after a meeting  between  all three parties.  
The letter set out Firm Ss proposal for managing  Mr Es SIPP.  Firm S strongly 
recommended that the core of Mr Es money  should  be invested in at least  a balanced 
strategy. No reference is made  in this letter to the Close Property Investments, but 
Firms S has since  acknowledged that it was aware Mr E held these.
The process of transferring the SIPP started  in September  2007.  It was agreed that the 
stock held was to be transferred in-specie. At this time only the ACE and HLP funds were 
held in the SIPP. However,  the HLP fund was sold before the transfer completed so 
ultimately only the ACE fund was transferred to Firm S.
Stuart Binns  argues that Firm S was in control of Mr Es SIPP  from August 2007. So it 
says that it cant be held responsible for any loss Mr E suffered as a result  of the ACE 
fund being suspended. Ive thought  about  this carefully, but I dont agree.
Firm Ss terms and conditions - which  Mr E agreed  to in August 2007 - allowed for 
managed- out portfolios  to be established. Unlike managed portfolios, Firm S had no 
discretion over investments within a clients managed-out portfolio. And if it didnt 
consider a particular  investment within a managed-out  portfolio  was suitable for its client, 
the terms and conditions stated that it would only accept instructions for that investment 
on an execution only basis.
Ref: DRN350553126The ACE fund was transferred to a managed-out portfolio and it wasnt  unreasonable for 
Firm S to accept  the transfer  in-specie. This didnt mean it was endorsing  the 
investment. But once in its custody,  Firm S would have the opportunity  to assess 
whether the investment was suitable  and advise Mr E accordingly.
The fund wasnt transferred into Firm Ss custody until 28 December 2007. And I dont 
think Firm S had authority to make any changes  until the transfer had been finalised. 
Dealing in the ACE fund was suspended in mid-January 2008 and its not realistic to 
expect Firm S to have  made significant  changes to the SIPP or to have assessed the 
suitability of the ACE fund, in what was a fairly short period before the fund was 
suspended.
Although Firm S didnt gain custody of the ACE fund until the end of December, Im 
conscious that there was a delay in it being transferred. This was caused by the fund 
initially being  incorrectly registered in the name  of the new SIPP provider,  rather than in 
the name of Firm Ss custodian. Its not clear  which of the parties  involved in processing 
the transfer - Firm A, Firm S or Close  was responsible for this error. But this mistake  
led to the transfer  being  delayed, meaning  that overall, it took almost  5 months for it to 
complete. This is far longer than I would expect,  particularly considering the ACE fund 
was the only investment  being transferred.
For this reason, Ive considered whether Stuart Binns responsibility should be capped to 
reflect that, had it not been for this delay, Firm S wouldve had custody of the ACE fund 
from some  time in November 2007. However, in the circumstances, I think its fair to 
make an award for the whole loss against Stuart  Binns.
I appreciate that Stuart Binns intention  going  forward was for all investment advice to 
be provided by Firm S. However, it was still Mr Es financial  adviser  and Im mindful that 
it arranged the sale of the HLP fund at the end of October 2008, while the transfer  was 
going through. This indicates to me that Stuart Binns  was still advising Mr E on his 
investments. And as it was able to arrange the sale of the HLP fund, it couldve also 
arranged the sale of the ACE fund, but it didnt do so.
Even if the assets  had initially been registered correctly,  Firms  S didnt have discretion 
over this investment.  Any changes to investments within a managed-out portfolio could 
only be made by Mr E or his authorised representative, which  in this case was Stuart 
Binns. So, this still left little time for a meeting to be arranged between  Mr E, Stuart  
Binns and Firm S to discuss whether the ACE fund should be retained.  Ultimately  Firm 
S lost the opportunity to review the ACE fund and assess its suitability for Mr E before it 
was suspended. So it doesnt  seem  fair to say that Firm S is responsible for loss Mr E 
has suffered.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr E wouldnt have lost out at all but for 
Stuart Binns failings,  and that Stuart  Binns  benefitted financially from advising on this 
unsuitable transaction  I think its fair that the liability for any loss suffered by Mr E 
remains with Stuart Binns.
If Stuart Binns feels any of the other parties involved in the transfer are also 
responsible for any losses suffered, its free to pursue independent action  outside  of 
our service  regarding this. But in this case,  I feel that holding Stuart Binns responsible  
for the whole  of the loss is appropriate in all the circumstances, and for the reasons Ive 
set out here.
Ref: DRN350553127Mr Es SIPP  provider has told us that the ACE fund has been written off and is no 
longer part of the SIPP. As such, the fund should be treated as having a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating Mr Es financial loss.
fair compensation
I think Mr E would have invested  differently had he been given suitable advice, and 
my aim is to award redress that reflects the position as I think  it would have been if 
that had happened.  Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have done, but 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr E's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  Stuart Binns do?
Stuart Binns must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr E's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown  below.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. If the fair value 
is greater than the actual value, there is a loss. The losses should be combined 
and the total is the amount of compensation payable.
Stuart Binns should  add interest  as set out below.
If there is a loss, Stuart Binns should pay such amount as may be required  
allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs,  to be the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Healthcare 
and Leisure  
Property 
FundsurrenderedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Capital  
Appreciation 
TrustsurrenderedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN350553128Active 
Commercial 
Estates  Truststill exists FTSE UK
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of       
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr E paid into the investment should  be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point  on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep  calculations simpler,  Ill accept if Stuart Binns totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr E wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some  
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close  enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr E's circumstances and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN350553129The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
my provisional decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  
to pay compensation  of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider  that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend 
that Stuart Binns & Associates pays the balance.
determination and award: I am provisionally  minded  to uphold the complaint. I 
consider that fair compensation should  be calculated as set out above. My provisional 
decision is that Stuart Binns & Associates should  pay the amount produced by that 
calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience 
but excluding  costs)  plus any interest on the balance  as set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I recommend that Stuart  Binns  & Associates pays Mrs E the balance 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold the complaint made by Mr E and now his son. Subject to any further 
information I receive I intend to tell to Stuart Binns  & Associates to:
Pay redress as set out above
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3505531