K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont compensate her for the cost of her call 
after providing the wrong information about her account.
background
Ms D said she was given incorrect information about her Barclays account on at least  a 
dozen occasions. Shed spent a lot of time on the telephone trying  to speak to the right 
department. And shes had compensation to cover some of her calls.  But Barclays wont  
reimburse her for the recent complaint. Ms D feels she shouldve received a gesture  of 
goodwill every time and not at the discretion of the agent dealing with the call. So she wants  
the bank to cover her costs of each occasion.
Barclays said Ms D had complained about  being given incorrect information  a number of 
times. Each  complaint had been assessed  individually to decide what  impact thered been  
and if any compensation or reimbursement was necessary. And on this occasion the error 
had been corrected on the same  call. So Barclays didnt think compensation was 
appropriate.
Barclays said itd suggested alternative  methods for Ms D to review her account but she 
preferred direct contact  with people.
Ms D wasnt  satisfied with Barclays response. So she contacted  our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He listened to the call. And he felt Ms D had been given 
the correct information during the same call. So he didnt think thered been  any loss or 
impact. And he felt Barclays was within its rights to look at each complaint on its own merits.
Ms D didnt agree. So shes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  Shed been 
compensated for having to spend time on calls before. So she wanted compensation for this 
call as well.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D prefers  to call Barclays  to check her account balance and what transactions are going  
through. But she says shes  been  given the wrong information on a number of occasions  in 
the past two years. And shes been compensated for the cost of her calls. She was told 
shed always be compensated if Barclays made a mistake. And she wants  the bank to be 
consistent when  it makes an error. 
I understand Ms D doesnt have access to online banking. And she prefers to speak to 
someone about her accounts. She needs to be able to rely on the information shes given. 
So Ive looked  carefully at everything  Ms D and Barclays have said.
On this occasion Ms D asked about her account  balance and recent transactions. But she 
wasnt happy with the information she was given. She wanted to know what transactions  had 
gone out that day. She was told about  some  card transactions.  But she wasnt advised about  
some direct debits that had left the account.  Although the balance shed been given was 
correct.
Ref: DRN37961852When Ms D queried the response the banks adviser corrected their answer. Ms D was 
unhappy with the banks  service and asked for compensation for the error.
I realise Ms D would like Barclays to take a consistent approach  when it makes  a mistake. 
And she feels she shouldnt have to point out the banks mistakes. But Barclays says it 
judges each complaint on its own merits. And during this call the bank was able to provide 
Ms D with the correct  information after the misunderstanding had been cleared up. So 
Barclays felt it wasnt  necessary to reimburse  Ms D for the cost of the call. The problem had 
been quickly corrected.
I do appreciate it isnt easy for Ms D to visit her local branch so she relies on Barclays  
telephone service. She says shes had to make  multiple calls to the bank at her own 
expense. And she just wants  £5-£10 to cover  her costs when she brings  the banks errors to 
its attention.
But its not the role of this service to tell Barclays, or any bank, how to run its business.  So I 
cant ask Barclays to change the way it decides  on compensation payments. Thats a 
commercial decision which I cant interfere with. And on this occasion  I think the 
misunderstanding was corrected quickly and during the same call.
I do appreciate Ms D needs to rely on the information shes  given. And shes clearly unhappy 
with the service shes received. But on this occasion Barclays was able to correct the 
mistake within  a minute or two. So I dont think there was any impact or financial loss. And, 
as Ive explained, I cant ask Barclays to alter its procedures for compensation payments.
While this isnt the result Ms D was hoping for, I hope this shows Ive fully investigated  the 
complaint and the reasons behind  my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3796185