K821x#15complaint
Ms H has complained that Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. unfairly refused  to pay her claim when she had to cancel  her holiday due 
to her sons illness. Ms H is represented  by her stepfather, who I shall call Mr B.
background
Ms H and her young teenage son were due to go on holiday with Mr B, his partner and her 
young son on 8 August  2017. Mr B. had booked the holiday in January 2017.  However,  Ms 
H didnt buy her travel insurance  until 6 August  2017.
She said her son developed severe gastroenteritis on 7 August and she felt he simply could  
not travel  so she cancelled her holiday  and made  a claim under her policy.
Mapfre believed given  the contents of its telephone  calls with Ms H that she bought her 
insurance in order  to cancel her holiday, as she was ill at the time she applied for her policy. 
So it refused  to pay her claim.
Ms H didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought on balance  
there was sufficient evidence to show  Ms Hs claim was valid and so Mapfre should pay her 
claim. Mapfre didnt agree  so Ms Hs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mapfre said the Ms H bought the policy with the intention of claiming for the cancellation of 
her holiday.  It said this because Ms H gave an inconsistent account  of both her illness and 
that of her sons when  talking to Mapfre on the phone.  I agree  Ms H wasnt  consistent and 
that it does appear  from what  Ms H said that she was ill at the time of buying the policy  as 
Ive listened to both call recordings.
As I consider Ms H did give inconsistent accounts of what  was going on at the time, I dont 
consider Mapfre did anything wrong in wanting to investigate  her claim further. But its further 
investigations didnt  yield any evidence to confirm its suspicions in my opinion.
Mapfre also put considerable weight  on the fact that Ms H only bought her policy two days  
before her holiday start date, despite the holiday being booked and paid for, around eight 
months earlier. But I dont  think thats unusual. Many, many holidaymakers do just that, 
forgetting or simply not realising the benefit of buying their travel policy at the time they book 
their holiday.  When people book their holiday, theyre not thinking  that something  might 
happen in the time before  their holiday start date, which might require them to cancel it. 
Theyre simply excited about  booking a holiday.  But as Mapfre  allows people to buy its policy  
as late in the day that Ms H did, consequently  I think its not appropriate to overly rely on that 
issue. Further Mapfre hasnt showed  me this policy was purchased dishonestly, its only 
shown me it was purchased late in the day, which it permits in any event.
The available evidence here in Ms Hs case, is that she bought her policy following a short of 
bout of tummy troubles.  She didnt think she was too sick to travel  at the time, but simply felt 
Ref: DRN30641832a bit iffy. Sadly whatever virus it was, hit her 14-year-old son, much worse. And its clear 
from the GPs note about her son, his condition was significant and that he simply couldnt 
fly. I put no weight on the GPs mistake in calling her son a she as his details are clearly 
referenced on the letter.
The reason  for the cancellation  wasnt due to Ms H feeling ill, it was due to how ill her son 
was. So irrespective of Ms Hs lack of consistency in the recorded calls,  I dont consider the 
reasonable response to that was to refuse to pay her claim in view of the straightforward 
evidence concerning her sons condition from his GP.
Therefore, I think Mapfre should  now pay Ms Hs claim in accordance  with the remaining 
policy terms, adding interest  of 8% simple  per year from the date it initially rejected  Ms Hs 
claim to the date it makes  a payment to her.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. to 
pay Ms Hs claim  in accordance with the remaining policy terms, adding interest of 8% 
simple per year from the date it initially rejected Ms Hs claim to the date it make a payment 
to her.*
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A.  considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Ms H how much its taken  off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate  if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3064183