K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that John Lewis Financial Services Limited wrongly recorded her address, 
which lead to them incorrectly putting a credit default on her file. 
background
Ms B got a credit card with John Lewis. She gave her address  as being number 18, but it 
was wrongly recorded as being 18a.   
After receiving the card, Ms B made a small value purchase and paid the balance  off. Later, 
she bought a bigger item, but did not clear  the balance. She did not get the letters  that John 
Lewis had sent her because of the fact that they had been sent to the wrong address.     
Over time John Lewis wrote to her with demands  for payment, but she did not receive these. 
Because of this, John Lewis issued a default notice, and then a final demand, which lead to 
a default being recorded on her credit file.   
Ms B says that she didnt know about  this until she got a phone call from John Lewis chasing 
payment. When she got this, she paid the outstanding  amount  straight  away.    
John Lewis  later agreed to remove the default (although  they didnt do so until some  months 
later) and offered  £100 in John Lewis vouchers in compensation. Meanwhile, Ms B had 
applied for credit with another company, which was declined. They said that there were a 
few reasons for this, one being Ms Bs credit report.  
John Lewis  said that the delay with changing  the credit  report was because  of technical 
issues, and they gave Ms B £200  in compensation for that. 
Ms B said that as a result of the default  wrongly  being recorded on her file, she wasnt able 
to apply for a better mortgage rate with her mortgage provider. What  she had done was 
speak to her mortgage  provider  who ran an internal check. This showed that the default was 
recorded on the system.  She didnt go on and make the application however, as had this 
been refused  then this would have meant she would have another  refusal on her record. 
Our investigator said that on the information that she had seen she could not say that the 
default was the only reason why Ms B was refused  credit.  Further,  as there wasnt a formal 
mortgage application she didnt know whether that would have been refused and, if it had 
been, whether  that would have been solely because of the default.  
 
For those reasons, she didnt think that John Lewis should do any more,  and that the total of 
£300 compensation was fair in the circumstances. Ms B doesnt agree and so the matter has 
been passed for me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Ms B and John Lewis agree that the default should be removed  (and it has been). So 
what I need to decide  here is what impact the default would have had when it was recorded.  
 
Ref: DRN38223092After Ms B got her card, she made a small purchase  on it. Even though she didnt get a letter 
from John Lewis about this, she still made  the payment due. This shows that Ms B 
understood how the system works.  
It seems  to me that she would have known that she had to repay the money  for the bigger 
purchase that she then made. Because that was more expensive, it is more  likely that Ms B 
would have remembered it than the smaller one.  
 
For that reason,  I dont  think that John Lewis could  have done anything  more than they did 
when they became aware of the mistake in the address, and its consequences. In those 
circumstances, it doesnt seem to me that the £100 compensation that they offered was 
insufficient.   
  
Looking at it, I can see why Ms B was frustrated by the fact that John  Lewis took longer to 
remove the default than they should  have. But for the same reasons, I think  that the £200 
compensation that they offered for that is reasonable.  
 
In relation to the declined application for credit, they have said that the credit default  was not 
the only reason  for the application being  declined.  I havent seen any evidence  to say that 
that was wrong.  Therefore I cant say that John Lewiss original mistake in sending  out 
letters to the wrong  door number caused the refusal.   
It seems  to me that this is the same for the mortgage application. As no application  was 
made, I cant  even be sure that it would have been  refused, let alone whether this would 
have been solely because of the initial mistake by John Lewis in sending  out the letters to 
the wrong address. 
For those reasons, I cant say that the mistake  by John Lewis  caused  either  of the problems 
that Ms B complains about, and which might entitle her to additional compensation. I know  
that Ms B will be disappointed by this, but I dont  uphold her complaint. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3822309