K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home contents insurance 
with Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy started in 2007,  and RSA took over the underwriting  of it 
from another insurer in 2013. In 2012, with the previous  insurer,  the policy  cost £1,230.  In 
2013, the first year with RSA, the policy cost £1,865. The next year, 2014, Mr and Mrs Bs 
insurance cost £2,048.  
Prior to the renewal  in 2017, Mr and Mrs B noticed  they were paying  over £200 per month   
a total of £2,475 for the policy year which started in 2016. They  asked their broker  to review  
their cover and found they could take a policy through another insurer for about £200 per 
year. They then complained that theyd  been  overcharged.
RSA said that its prices were correct  based on the cost of the policy  when it took over.  But 
that it would  refund some of the premiums paid as a gesture of goodwill. So, RSA offered  a 
refund of just over £4,000.  This was based  on what it wouldve charged if it had simply 
index-linked the price  Mr and Mrs B paid in 2012,  resulting in a small annual  increase in 
percentage terms, in line with inflation.  
Our investigator thought RSAs offer of settlement was a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. In particular,  they thought the refund should  go back  to 2007 when 
the policy originally  started and be based  on the cost of the new policy  which they took out in 
2017. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA is only responsible for the price of the policy from 2013  when it took over the 
underwriting. If Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the price before then, they would need to 
complain to the previous insurer. 
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr and Mrs B 
fairly throughout the period they held its insurance policy.
If I find that RSA hasnt treated Mr and Mrs B fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what RSA has offered is fair. In this case, I 
think RSAs offer of settlement is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So, Im not going  to tell 
RSA to do anything  more than that.
I would like to explain that an insurer hasnt necessarily done anything  wrong  by changing 
the premium at renewal   and there  are often risk related  reasons for an insurer  doing so. 
And in Mr and Mrs Bs case, the premium  was always going to change at renewal  because  
the policy was index-linked, meaning  the sum insured (and therefore premium)  would 
change in line with inflation.
Ref: DRN37890072But where an insurer knew, or ought  reasonably  to have known, the consumer wasnt  
engaging with the renewals process, they should have taken care to make  sure they treated 
these consumers fairly  and that they didnt take advantage  of the consumers  behaviour by 
increasing their premiums just because  they didnt engage with the cost.
In this case, RSA has offered to refund some  of the premiums Mr and Mrs B paid. It has 
based this on what it wouldve  charged if the price in 2012  had increased with inflation only. I 
think that is fair in this case, because it compensates Mr and Mrs B for any potentially unfair 
increases that were  as a result  of their lack of engagement with the renewals process.
Mr and Mrs B found insurance through their broker for about  £200 in 2017. This is much less 
than RSA was charging, even taking into account  the refund it has now offered. I fully 
understand Mr and Mrs Bs view on this, but insurers often  include  discounts  in order to 
obtain new customers. That means that a new customer will often be paying less than the 
true cost of providing the insurance policy. So, the new policy  they have taken out would  
include such  a discount. 
In addition to this, insurance  policies are not all the same  they have different levels of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions  that can affect the price  charged. And 
each insurers costs  may vary depending on many things, including  the makeup of the pool 
of customers it is insuring. So, just because the policy with RSA cost a lot more  than Mr and 
Mrs Bs new policy   that doesnt mean  the amount charged was unfair.
Mr and Mrs B think the refund should go back further and be based on the cost of the new 
policy she took out in 2017. But, as Ive explained above, RSA wasnt responsible for the 
price of the policy before 2013.  So, I cant tell it to refund any of the premiums before then. 
And the new policy Mr and Mrs B have  taken out is not directly comparable,  due to the new 
customer discount she wouldve received and the fact that the policies will not be identical. 
So, I dont think the price of that policy should form the basis for the refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, Ive decided that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plcs offer of 
settlement is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already done so, Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc should now pay the refund, updating  the interest to reflect the time Mr and 
Mrs B have been without  that money.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 September 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3789007