K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M took out a joint mortgage  in late 2003  with Nationwide Building Society.  They 
were sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) jointly at the same  time. Nationwide has told 
me that both were  covered  equally  on the PPI policy, which offered a monthly payment in the 
event of either Mr or Mrs M losing their jobs or becoming unable  to work.
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD), summary  attached, in August 2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.  And  I asked both parties to provide any further  
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In its response Nationwide says that when it met with Mr and Mrs M back in 2003  the priority  
would have been to discuss only the mortgage  and whether  they would have been eligible to 
be lent money to. Nationwide implies that any discussion about MPPI  would  have been  
pointless until a decision about  that lending had been made.
I find this a very uncompelling argument,  not least because Nationwides  own Mortgage 
Application form contained  a specific section  about  MPPI. Furthermore,  that section had two 
clear options  on it, one to have MPPI  and one to reject it. No doubt if Mr and Mrs M had 
chosen the yes option Nationwide would have  pointed to this as very strong evidence that 
they wanted this type of cover. But they didnt   they chose not to have it, a point  I made 
very clear in my PD. 
Nationwide then referred me to various  key entries  made by the mortgage adviser on its 
computer system during  the 2003 meeting. It referred to certain times where the entries  
appeared to show  MPPI was discussed.  Nationwide implies this shows  consent  was 
provided.
But Im afraid I disagree with this and whilst I looked  at the submissions with great  care, 
none of them change my view that Nationwide  failed to obtain the consent of Mr and Mrs M 
to buy the MPPI.
I note Nationwide  went on to say of my PD unfortunately, we do not have a specific  
document signed by them  agreeing  to the inclusion of the insurance  on their mortgage 
account, if this is what  he is looking for. 
I can confirm that is indeed what I was looking for. And having clearly seen Mr and Mrs M 
had categorically  refused  MPPI, I dont  think  my requirement to see evidence of their 
apparent change of mind  is an unreasonable one. 
As I said in my PD, it seems to me that Nationwide is able to supply a plethora of point of 
sale documentation, with one exception.  That exception is anything which shows it clearly  
obtained Mr and Mrs M agreement to buying this MPPI policy.  
Ref: DRN35484872Ive carefully read the other pieces of information and argument Nationwide submitted all of 
which I found unconvincing. The Nationwide respondent concludes I have seen nothing to 
suggest MPPI was added without the consent of Mr and Mrs [M]. So to be clear, my 
contrary view is based on them specifically saying on a signed Mortgage Application that 
they didnt want  MPPI   and Nationwide being  unable to furnish anything comprehensive 
which says otherwise. 
Im grateful  for the responses but theres  no reason for me to change the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision. 
what I think Nationwide should do to put matters right 
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt been sold 
PPI. It should:
Pay the amount  Mr and Mrs M paid each month  for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr and Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and require  Nationwide  Building Society to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am 
required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35484873summary  provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M took out a joint mortgage in late 2003 with Nationwide Building Society.  They were sold 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) jointly  at the same time. Nationwide  has told me that both were  
covered equally on the PPI policy, which offered a monthly payment  in the event of either  Mr or Mrs M 
losing their jobs or becoming unable  to work.
background
One of our adjudicators  has looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld.  But 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so, Im currently intending  to uphold  this complaint.  
I note Nationwide  has defended  this complaint substantially on the basis that Mr and Mrs M were 
given a choice about PPI during the mortgage discussion. It said it was made  clear  that this type of 
cover was optional on the application they made.
I find this argument quite unpersuasive  since Ive looked at the document referred  to by Nationwide 
and whilst there was indeed a choice given about the PPI, Mr and Mrs M appear to have quite 
obviously declined it. In short, the evidence  is very clear and strong that they opted not to have this 
type of cover with their new mortgage.
I note the type of policy  offered at the time by Nationwide  was free for the first 12 months. And the 
cover does appear to have  been added to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage despite them  very clearly 
indicating that it wasnt something they wanted to have. Nationwide says the PPI was added at some 
point after Mr and Mrs M declined and it implies they must have changed their minds. But Nationwide 
cant tell me how this happened or why they changed their minds;  and crucially,  it cant show me 
where Mr and Mrs M consented.
Nationwide then referred  me to items of documentation  which followed in the months  and years after 
the sale,  showing that a policy had actually  been set up. But as I understand it, Mr and Mrs M are 
saying that things  werent explained to them during the sale, its not disputed that a policy was set up.
Nationwide also included in its submission  a copy of letter sent to Mr and Mrs M after the free 12 
month period was drawing to a close. But again, I dont think this proves  they agreed to it. There  could 
be many reasons why they didnt act on information sent to them  long after the PPI sale.
In summary, I thank Nationwide for the comprehensive documentation it has sent me about  the sale. 
However, it seems  to me that the only document we dont have access to is one showing Mr and Mrs 
M consented  to buying the PPI.
So I dont feel, at this stage, I need  to go any further.  There  is reliable evidence at the point  of sale 
that Mr and Mrs M declined the PPI. Nationwide  cant explain why or how PPI was then added  
apparently against their wishes. If it wants to point out where this can be found, Ill obviously look very 
carefully at it. 
Ref: DRN35484874my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint.  And I intend to direct 
Nationwide Building Society to put matters right as above.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 9 
September 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3548487