K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Santander  UK Plc, (trading as Abbey National), mis-sold them
a mortgage payment protection insurance,  (MPPI) policy.
background
The circumstances leading to Mr and Mrs Es complaint, together with my initial findings, 
were set out in my provisional decision dated 21 December  2018, a copy of which is 
attached to this decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs E nor Santander have commented on my provisional decision or sent us 
any further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
As neither party has said or sent us anything new I see no reason to deviate from my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, my decision is that I do not 
uphold this compliant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39276322COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Santander UK Plc, (trading as Abbey  National), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection  insurance, (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy  over the phone  in 2000. The policy only 
covered Mr E.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld. As Mr and Mrs E disagreed 
the matter has come to me to decide.
Its not clear whether the mortgage that was in place at the time of the sale of the policy to Mr E was 
in his sole name  or held jointly with Mrs E. But this doesnt affect my decision, so Ive assumed  the 
mortgage was in joint names.
Where the evidence  is missing, inconclusive or contradictory, as some of it is here,  Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is to say what  I think  is most likely  to have happened 
taking into account everything weve been told and the surrounding circumstances.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to sales about payment protection insurance on our website. Ive 
followed this in making my decision.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint.  I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs E say that they believed  that the MPPI  was automatically included within  the quote  
and expressly  implied that if [MPPI] cover was taken out there was more chance of the loan being 
accepted. There are no longer any records of their discussion with Santander, so I dont know 
what was said. But I think its likely that Mr and Mrs E knew that the MPPI was optional and that 
they chose to take it out. I say this because, although Mr and Mrs E say that their mortgage had 
been with Santander  since  1992, Santander has been  unable to locate any mortgage that Mr E 
had with it before  or at the time the MPPI sale took place.
Also, although the policy was one that, in principle, could  have covered Mr E for accident and 
sickness in addition, Ive seen that he only took out unemployment cover. So I think  its likely  that 
that Santander  discussed MPPI with Mr E and / or Mrs E and that it made them  aware  that they 
had choice over what cover, if any, to take. And that they decided on unemployment cover only 
for Mr E.
Further, when Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with Santander five years later,  their application  
form said that their existing  mortgage was with a different  named lender.
So, in the absence of any other evidence, on balance Im satisfied  from the above that this was a 
likely to have been a standalone MPPI sale not related to any mortgage taken  out by Mr and Mrs 
E with Santander at the same time.
The sale was many  years ago so I can understand why Mr and Mrs E may no longer remember 
the detail of what was said during the phone call when  the insurance  was sold;
Ref: DRN39276323Mr and Mrs E have told us that they felt pressured into taking the insurance. But they have given  
us no details  about  what Santander said or did to make  them  feel this. In fact they werent even 
sure whether  the policy was sold to them during  a meeting, over the phone, by filling in a leaflet or 
by post. So based on the information  Ive got at present, I dont  think that I have sufficient reason  
to find that Santander  did put any unfair pressure  on Mr and Mrs E to buy the policy;
Santander recommended  Mr and Mrs E to take out the MPPI. This means  that it had to take 
reasonable steps  to ensure that it was suitable for their needs.  I find that it was suitable  because, 
knowing what I do about their circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the 
policy:
oMr E was eligible for the policy;
oMr E and Mrs E have told us that they didnt  have  any savings or other insurance  to help them 
make their mortgage  repayments had Mr E become unemployed. But following  a successful 
claim the policy would have  paid over £100 a month for up to 12 months. And the effect of not 
keeping up their mortgage repayments on their home could have been very serious  for them. 
So I think  that the policy would have been of use to Mr and Mrs E;
oI dont  know why the MPPI only covered Mr E and he only took unemployment cover. But I 
have no reason to conclude other than that this was what  Mr and Mrs E specifically  chose;
oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies available in the 
market at the time and offered reasonable benefits.  And I havent seen anything  to suggest  
that Mr and Mrs E couldnt afford the premiums, which initially were about £4.50 a month.  And 
as they were paying for it monthly, they could cancel  it without further cost at any time if their 
situation changed or they no longer  wanted it;
oExcept in certain circumstances, the policy would not pay out for unemployment arising from, 
among other things, the end of a fixed term contract or a contract for a specific task; or which 
occurred after a period of casual, temporary or occasional  work; or which was a normal or 
seasonal occurrence  in the relevant type of work.
In his initial  replies to this service Mr E told us that he had been in employment  for the same 
organisation for a period  in excess of nine years. And in Mr and Mrs Es mortgage application  
in 2005, Mr E said that hed been in permanent employment  for a different employer for some 
two years. However Mr E has now told us that at the time of the MPPI sale he was working  for 
several agencies moving from site to site. He hasnt given us any more details of his agency 
arrangements. So, at least without clearer and more detailed information  about  his 
employment, I dont think Mr E was ]affected by the policy  limitations on claiming for 
unemployment. And Im satisfied that he wasnt affected  by any of the policys other main  
restrictions and limitations  such as those affecting  someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition.
It may be that Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs E everything  about the MPPI that it ought  to have 
before they agreed  to take it. But as Ive found above  that they chose  to take out the policy and 
that it was suitable for them I dont think that clearer information would  have changed their minds  
and stopped Mr and Mrs E buying it. 
This means  that Mr and Mrs E are no worse off because of anything that Santander may
have done wrong during  the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
Ref: DRN39276324As I have said, I have considered everything that Mr and Mrs E have told us - including  that they 
have paid for the insurance and not got any money back. But that is how insurance works when  
no event covered by the policy occurs. Mr E has also recently said that, as he worked  outside,  he 
would have been unable to work in extreme conditions. He feels  that this should be classed as 
seasonal work. I dont agree that temporary, unplanned lay-offs because  of weather  conditions  
amount to the employment being seasonal. So these and Mr Es other points  dont change my 
decision.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any more  information I get, as above, my decision is that I do not uphold  this
complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927632