K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card through a postal 
application in response to a direct mailing from Barclays. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 Mr M ticked a box on his application  form to indicate he wanted PPI. A box next to it 
indicating he didnt  want PPI was not ticked.  However, he did tick a box to decline 
another type of insurance that was available to him, and which  was presented  in a 
similar way. So I think Barclays made  Mr M aware that he had a choice about buying  
the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
 Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. 
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
 This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments. But these points  dont  change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN38213882my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3821388