K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  (Moneybarn). 
background
Mrs S was supplied with a used  car in November  2017 having entered  into a conditional  sale 
agreement to finance the cash  price  of £4,000. 
In August  2018  Mrs S says the gearbox failed  and the car had to be taken to a nearby 
garage. The garage replaced the gearbox  at a cost of £2,550.36. 
Mrs S complained to Moneybarn and asked it to contribute towards  the cost of the gearbox.  
Moneybarn said it was only liable  for the cost of the repair if the fault with the gearbox was 
present at the point of supply and it didnt think there  was enough  evidence  to show this. 
Our investigator thought Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He thought there was enough 
evidence the gearbox was faulty  at the point of supply as the garage which replaced it had 
confirmed there was a previous fault which hadnt been properly repaired. He asked 
Moneybarn to pay Mrs S the cost of the replacement  gearbox.  
Moneybarn didnt respond to the investigators assessment so the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn supplied Mrs S with the car under the conditional sale agreement it had with her. 
There was a term implied in the agreement that the car would be of satisfactory quality. 
What is satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory  
given the price, description and other  relevant circumstances. In this case  I think  this would 
include things such as the age and mileage  of the car. 
Mrs S paid £4,000  for the car and while it was only four years  old it had driven a 
considerable number of miles in that time. So, a reasonable person might  expect to have to 
repair or replace  some  of the parts  of the car over time.
Moneybarn says that this  combined  with the fact Mrs S travelled a fair distance  in the car 
in the nine months before it broke down  shows  it was unlikely the fault with the gearbox 
was present at the time it supplied the car to Mrs S. It said the failure of the gearbox was 
most likely down to wear and tear which wouldnt be unexpected  given the age and mileage 
of the car.
The garage that replaced the gearbox  commented on what  it saw when it took the gearbox 
out of the car. It said it found two studs broken and one wrong  size bolt fitted and loose to 
the mounting. The gearbox had been removed before and studs drilled  out but out of 
alignment. All bell housing  bolts were  loose and two had to be re-tapped  and new bolts  fitted
Ref: DRN33934242The report  went on to conclude that a prior fault on this gearbox had occurred and not been  
properly repaired. 
I recognise that a car with the mileage of this one may have had repair work carried out 
during its lifetime and this isnt unusual. However, in this case the garage which replaced the 
gearbox has said that the reason the gearbox failed  was because of a previous fault which 
hadnt been repaired properly. 
Ive not seen anything in this case to suggest  the repair work mentioned  by the garage  was 
carried out while Mrs S had the car. She has provided plausible  testimony it wasnt  and 
Moneybarn has not provided anything to say it was. 
Also, I dont find it implausible given the loose  fittings in the gearbox that it could  have taken 
as long as it did after supply for the gearbox  to fail. And again Ive not been provided with 
any persuasive evidence  to suggest otherwise.
So overall, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusion reached by the investigator that 
there was a fault with the gearbox which was most likely present at the time the car was 
supplied. And given the consequences of the fault not being properly repaired i.e. the 
complete failure  of the gearbox nine months  after supply; this meant  the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs S. 
Mrs S has of course already paid to have the gearbox replaced by a third party  garage. 
Given Ive concluded  the fault meant  the car was not of satisfactory quality; one of the things 
it might  have been fair to expect Moneybarn to do was repair  the fault. And it seems  likely it 
would have had to carry out the same replacement as the third party  garage given what  the 
garages report concludes.  So, in the circumstances  I think  the fair thing to do here is for 
Moneybarn to pay Mrs S the cost of the replacement  gearbox plus interest. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. To put 
things right Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited must:
Pay Mrs S £2,550.36 for the replacement gearbox plus 8% simple interest per year 
from the date it was paid until the date of settlement*. 
*If Moneybarn No. 1 Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken
off. It should  also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3393424