K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that shes  experienced problems accessing and managing  her Think Money 
Limited online account.
background
Ms M has a bank account with Think Money for which she pays  a monthly fee. She said she 
started experiencing problems with managing her account online in May 2018. Ms M stated 
that when she would  access her account online she was often logged out, had difficulty in 
making payments  and sometimes had to try several times to log into her account before 
being successful.  Ill set out below  a brief overview  of the problems she experienced when 
trying to access her account online during 2018.
On 7 September 2018, Ms M complained to Think Money that online banking continued to 
log her out when she tried to make changes to her account. She was eventually  able to 
complete the changes  she had wanted to make successfully and complained about what  
had happened. Think Money upheld Ms Ms complaint and stated it wasnt able to evidence  
that this error had occurred since. It felt that what had happened was an isolated  incidence 
and it apologised  for the inconvenience Ms M had been caused.
Ms M also complained that, on 12 September 2018, she wasnt able to transfer some  money  
to her card. But after Think Money  investigated her complaint it didnt  uphold  it. It said her 
online account was correct in advising that her money couldnt  be moved at that time 
because Think Moneys systems were already completing that request. 
On 2 October 2018, Ms M raised a further complaint with Think Money about problems she 
was experiencing when  accessing her account online. She said she had been logged  out of 
online banking on multiple occasions. Think Money apologised for this and upheld  her 
complaint. It informed her that the issue  was affecting a number of accounts and that it was 
ongoing and under investigation.
On 31 October 2018, Ms M complained that online banking continued to sign her out when 
she attempted to make  changes to her account. Think Money upheld this complaint and 
explained that it was still reviewing and attempting to resolve this problem.  It acknowledged  
that this was an issue Ms M had experienced previously. So, it said it would continue to 
monitor her account and contact her with an update within two months.  It credited her 
account with £30 compensation to recognise the inconvenience this had caused.  
On 15 November 2018, Ms M contacted  Think  Money to complain that she had been logged 
out of her online account when she had attempted to send a faster payment. And she said 
she was only able to make this payment by contacting  Think  Money  over the telephone. 
Think Money upheld her complaint and credited her account with a further £30 
compensation payment to apologise for what had happened. It acknowledged  this had been 
an ongoing issue over the past few months.  And it informed Ms M that it had referred her 
account to its IT department, which was still investigating the cause of the problem. Think  
Money told Ms M that it didnt know when the problem  would  be resolved. So, it would  
continue to monitor her account and provide an update within two months. Think Money also 
agreed to refund any telephone charges Ms M had incurred in contacting it about this issue 
on receipt of an itemised bill. 
Ref: DRN34839842Ms M wasnt happy with the way in which these  issues had been dealt with by Think Money. 
So she referred  her complaint to our service.  She told us she had been inconvenienced in 
the time and money she had spent contacting Think Money  about  the problems she had 
experienced. When Ms M complained, she told us that the issues were still ongoing and that 
Think Money hadnt provided the service  she had paid for via the monthly account fee. To 
put matters right, she told us that she wanted  Think Money to resolve the issues  affecting 
her. She also wanted it to refund her monthly  account fee and the cost of her time and 
telephone charges spent  in discussing these issues with Think  Money.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ms complaint and thought  Think  Money  should  do more  to 
resolve matters for her. They felt an additional £50 compensation would more accurately 
recognise the inconvenience  Ms M had been caused.  But Think Money stated that in 
reaching that view our adjudicator had referred  to an issue  about which Ms M had already 
received £20 compensation. So, our adjudicator reflected on this and deducted this amount 
from the compensation award they had initially recommended. Think  Money  thought the £60 
it had already paid was fair and reasonable. And Ms M thought  she should be awarded a 
higher compensation amount. So it falls to me to decide whats  fair and reasonable here.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having carefully  considered everything 
Think Money and Ms M have said here, I agree with the decision of our adjudicator  for 
broadly the same reasons.  Ill explain  why.
I can understand that the problems Ms M has experienced over the last year in managing 
her online account  have been very frustrating and stressful to her. I appreciate the 
inconvenience this is bound to have caused  and Im satisfied that this went beyond mere  
irritation. 
Whats clear to me, though, is that the issues affecting online accounts were  complex.  And I 
think Think  Money proactively tried to investigate  the cause of the problems Ms M 
experienced. It referred matters to its IT department,  which  I think  was appropriate. During 
the time that Ms M experienced  the problem she brought to our attention  Think Money didnt 
have a fix in place. And it didnt know when it would be able to resolve the issues  affecting 
Ms M. So, it subject Ms Ms account is to aftercare  review, which means her account was 
monitored on a bi-monthly basis. Overall, I think this all shows  Think  Money  took matters  
seriously and did all that it could to try and resolve  the problems Ms M experienced when 
accessing her account online. 
Think Money says its now provided its customers with a new version of the app which  
remedies the problems they were  experiencing in 2018. I understand that Ms M has 
registered for this service  and that she uses it frequently.  Think  Money  believes the issues 
that were affecting  Ms M have now been  resolved and it says it hasnt had any further 
conversations with her that suggest  shes still encountering difficulties, which  Im pleased  
about. Based on what Think Moneys  told our service  here Im satisfied that Ms M is no 
longer being affected by the problems she brought to our attention.
Its clear that Think  Money accepts that Ms M has been caused inconvenience  by her online 
experience. Its already  credited Ms Ms account  with £60 in compensation to recognise this, 
which it feels is appropriate. Ms M feels this doesnt  adequately reflect  the distress and 
Ref: DRN34839843inconvenience shes been caused.   And what I must determine here is whether the amount 
Think Money has already  paid Ms M is fair and reasonable.
Think Money has reviewed its records of when  Ms M has been  able to access  her account 
online. It told us that the problems she experienced were intermittent and that she was able 
to complete the required actions eventually. It also provided evidence  to show that Ms M 
was able to access  her online account on a regular basis.
Think Money told our service that there were other alternatives to online banking  such  as 
telephone banking. So, if Ms M wasnt able to gain access to her online account or complete 
transactions in this way she could do so using telephone banking. And it told us that when 
Ms M had to contact Think Money by telephone  she was able to speak with an adviser 
promptly and wasnt caused additional inconvenience as a result. 
Ms M told our service  that she would like Think Money to refund  some of the monthly 
account fees shes paid. And I can appreciate that shes disappointed  with paying for an 
account which she hasnt  always  been able to successfully access online. But the purpose of 
the account she holds is that it allows Think Money  to hold back any money credited to the 
account (such as income, wages and any other payments paid in) to cover  any commitments 
that a customer may have  (such as direct  debits and any other payments). So, any money  
remaining after this exercise  is allocated to the customer's Think Money card for them to 
spend. And this is what the monthly  account  fee is payable for. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen. Im satisfied  that Ms M has been able to use her account 
for this purpose. The problems she experienced when accessing her online account  didnt 
prevent this. I understand that online access to an account is an additional free service that 
Think Money offers its customers.  And I can see the issues online were  intermittent. Im 
satisfied that Ms M was able to access her online  account without issue  save for the 
occasions about which shes complained. So, it follows that I cant fairly  find that the 
problems Ms M experienced means she didnt get the service that she was paying for. And 
this means I cant tell Think Money to refund her account fee.
Ms M told our service  she wants Think  Money to refund the telephone call costs  she incurred 
when discussing these  problems. But I can see that Think Money has already agreed to 
consider any telephone  charges on receipt of an itemised bill, which  I think is reasonable. Its 
provided Ms M with an email address and pre-paid envelope to assist  her in providing  
evidence of any telephone charges shes incurred. But I havent  seen any evidence  to show  
that Ms M has supplied  Think Money  with what it requires here. And I cant  fairly tell Think 
Money to refund Ms Ms call charges in the absence of the evidence its requested from her.
Im satisfied Think Money tried to resolve these problems as best it could. But, as Ive 
already explained, Ms Ms experience here went beyond mere irritation.  She was caused 
distress and inconvenience by what happened  and she spent a fair amount of time 
discussing these issues with Think  Money. 
Think Money upheld four of the complaints Ms M made. And I dont think it did enough to 
resolve matters. Like our adjudicator, I dont think the £60 compensation its already  paid 
adequately recognises the upset Ms M was caused  here. So, I think  the additional £30 
compensation award suggested by our adjudicator  takes into account the overall 
circumstances of what happened and is more appropriate here.
Ref: DRN34839844my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons stated above. Think Money 
Limited should pay Ms M an additional  £30 in compensation  to resolve matters (taking the 
total amount to £90).
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
 
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3483984