K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about the poor service he received from National  Westminster Bank Plc 
when he queried  a withdrawal from his account.
background 
During a phone call to NatWest Mr L queried  a £90 ATM withdrawal from his account. He 
said he couldnt remember whether he had or hadnt visited the ATM, and if he had, he 
couldnt remember withdrawing £90.
He spoke to three NatWest advisors.  The first gave him incorrect  information  about his 
balance before the ATM withdrawal, the second attempted  unsuccessfully to clarify the 
figures with him, and the third eventually terminated the call and claimed  Mr L was wasting 
his [the advisors]  time. 
Mr L complained to NatWest who awarded him £40 compensation for the banks poor 
service.
Mr L felt that this was insufficient and so he brought his complaint to us.
Having listened  to the three phone calls our investigator recommended that NatWest  pay
Mr L an additional £60, which  in his view more fairly compensated Mr L for the poor service 
he had received that day. NatWest agreed  to this, but Mr L did not.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision saying, in summary,  that the banks responses to 
him on the day in question had caused him very significant upset  and changed his life. He 
also accused the third advisor of being racist.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L is very dissatisfied with the responses he received  from three NatWest staff when he 
queried a withdrawal from his account that he didnt  recognise.
It was made  from an ATM using Mr Ls card and pin number. NatWest provided Mr L with 
the location of the ATM  and the time of the transaction. Mr L said he couldnt  remember 
whether or not he had been  in the vicinity of the ATM at the time in question, and if he had 
been, he had no recall of withdrawing £90.
Mr L had a £800 overdraft limit on his account.  He asked  the first NatWest  advisor  to confirm 
his balance immediately  prior to the withdrawal. The advisor mistakenly said the account 
was £799.28 overdrawn, which in fact was the balance after the £90 withdrawal. Not 
surprisingly Mr L said that in that case he couldnt  possibly then have withdrawn £90 as he 
had a £800 limit. Mr L was then transferred to another  advisor, but this time in the fraud  
team.
She initially also gave  Mr L incorrect information  about his balance, but then realised her 
error and tried to explain the correct figures  to him. But unfortunately, by this point, the 
Ref: DRN37598122position was so confused  that it was eventually agreed that Mr L should raise  an ATM 
dispute and he was transferred to a third person.
The third advisor then clearly explained  to Mr L his balance both before and after the ATM 
transaction, although Mr L remained  very unhappy about the confusing  information hed 
been given by the previous two advisors.  Once the issue  of the balance had been settled the 
discussion then focussed on the £90 withdrawal,  which Mr L couldnt remember  having 
made. There then followed a circular discussion between the advisor and Mr L with the 
advisor essentially saying  he couldnt  raise an ATM  dispute because  Mr L wasnt  in fact 
disputing the withdrawal, and  Mr L saying that he couldnt remember  anything about the 
period in question. There was a discussion about  obtaining CCTV footage from the area of 
the machine. But Mr L maintained that this wouldnt necessarily prove anything,  because  
even if it showed  that he was there, he still couldnt remember making  the withdrawal.
Having reached  an impasse the advisor became increasingly frustrated with the 
conversation and Mr L asked to be put through to the complaints team.  The advisor  refused 
to do that as Mr L wouldnt explain the nature of his complaint. And when Mr L asked to 
speak to a manager, the advisor  said there wasnt one available. The advisor then 
terminated the call after providing Mr L with his name and location.
I shall deal first with the matter of the £90 withdrawal before turning to the service Mr L 
received from NatWest when he rang to query that withdrawal.
Mr L is in a difficult position because he cant remember  whether  or not he was at the ATM 
at the time of the withdrawal.  And although  he accepts that he might  have been, he certainly 
doesnt remember withdrawing £90. The withdrawal was made  with Mr Ls card and with his 
pin number. Mr L hasnt  reported any fraudulent use of his account or card around that time, 
and hasnt suggested that he lent his card to anyone else.  Given this and Mr Ls lack of 
recall about that time period, it is in my judgment much more  likely than not that he made  the 
withdrawal but has forgotten that he did.
But having  queried the transaction with NatWest the responses he received  were not as 
good as they should  have been. During  the first two discussions the advisors made mistakes 
about his balance, which understandably caused  Mr L confusion. And such  was the extent of 
the misunderstanding that it proved impossible  for the advisors  to undo the damage that had 
been done.
Mr L was transferred to the third advisor  on the basis that he wanted to raise  an ATM 
dispute. But that advisors view was that the withdrawal wasnt  being disputed, merely 
queried. The advisor seemed then to be unable  to deal with that scenario and the discussion 
reached an inevitable  stalemate.  Mr L was plainly unhappy about  this and the advisor  then 
exacerbated the situation by refusing to transfer  Mr L to either a manager or to the 
complaints team, and then by abruptly terminating the call.
This was poor service from NatWest and I can understand  why Mr L was upset about what  
had happened. The bank  has admitted that it should  have done  better  and agreed to pay 
Mr L £100 compensation, £40 of which it has already paid.  Having considered all that took 
place I find that to be fair and reasonable recompense for NatWests poor service on that 
occasion.
Ref: DRN37598123Mr L has accused one of the advisors  of being racist. This is a serious accusation and it is 
one Im afraid Mr L will have to raise with the relevant authorities if he wishes to pursue it as 
it is not a matter I am able to consider. 
my final decision
My decision  is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr L £60.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3759812