K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited  wont  refund a series  of cash machine  
withdrawals made from his Post Office account. The withdrawals were made when  Mr M 
was in custody,  and he says he neither made nor authorised them.    
background
Mr M was arrested  on 30 December 2017 and taken  into custody. He wasnt  released until 
20 March 2018.  Early in February  2018 the Post Office  received  a call requesting a new PIN, 
which it sent to Mr Ms home  address. Shortly after that his Post Office account card was 
used to make a number  of cash machine  withdrawals near his home.  They totalled just over 
£760. 
When Mr M was released, he returned  to his flat. He says it had been broken into and that 
his landlord told him that a number of people had moved in. The landlord had secured the 
flat and, when  Mr M gained access,  he found  that many  of his personal  belongings  were  
missing. They included  his bank card and other documents. He didnt have any insurance. 
J.P. Morgan  wouldnt, however, refund the cash machine withdrawals. It said that Mr M 
should have reported his change of circumstances. It also thought that Mr M hadnt kept his 
card and other personal information (including  his original PIN notification) safe.   
Mr M complained to this service that J.P. Morgan had taken that view,  and one of our 
investigators looked at the case.  He recommended  that J.P. Morgan refund the cash  
machine withdrawals. He didnt believe  that Mr M had made or authorised them  and didnt 
agree either that Mr M hadnt taken proper care of his card and security  information. 
 J.P. Morgan didnt accept  the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
First of all, I accept that Mr M was in custody at the times he says he was. The 
circumstances of his arrest were such that he wouldnt have been able to arrange his affairs 
beforehand  for example, by contacting the bank. I accept too that opportunities for him to 
contact the bank while he was in custody  would have been very limited,  if indeed it was 
possible for him to do so at all.  
Im satisfied therefore that Mr M didnt make the withdrawals himself. I must therefore  
consider whether he authorised someone  else to do so. Theres  no evidence  that he did, and 
the bank hasnt suggested  that either. In any event, I think  thats unlikely in this case. I doubt 
Mr M would have been able to arrange for someone  else to use his card, either  before  his 
arrest or from prison. And thats  not consistent  with someone asking for a new PIN. 
Theres little evidence to support what  Mr M has said about his flat being broken into while  
he was in prison. Again, though, Ive no reason to disbelieve  him. I note that his account 
wasnt used for several weeks after he went into prison, and thats consistent with what  Mr M 
has told us.   
Ref: DRN30410242J.P. Morgans main reason for refusing to refund the withdrawals is that, it says,  he didnt 
take proper care of his card, PIN and other security details. Ill deal with each  in turn. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Mr M to keep his card in his flat, even when he wasnt 
there. As Ive explained, he wasnt expecting to be away for as long as he was, and so I 
dont believe  he can be expected to have taken  additional precautions to secure it. 
Mr M said he might have  kept the original PIN notification. J.P. Morgan says this means  he 
didnt take proper care of it, and point out that the account terms say it should be destroyed. 
But I think the bank  has misunderstood the position here. Whoever  used the card ordered  a 
new PIN. That wouldnt have been  necessary had they managed to find the old PIN 
notification. So, even if Mr M did keep that notification, it didnt cause the loss. Its likely 
though that either he hadnt kept it (he only said he might have done) or that it was 
sufficiently safe that it wasnt discovered. 
Whoever used the card was able successfully to trick J.P. Morgan into sending a 
replacement PIN to Mr Ms home address. The bank hasnt been  able to provide a recording  
of the call when  that was done or the exact detail of what information was required. I think  it 
likely though that the information needed  was available from documentation in Mr Ms flat. I 
dont believe  however that it means  Mr M didnt take proper  care of that information. He was 
entitled to believe  that it would be secure  in his own home.  
The investigator explained in his view letter that J.P. Morgan can only hold Mr M liable for 
the disputed withdrawals if he made them,  authorised  someone  else to make  them  or 
displayed a very high degree of carelessness.  Ive explained why I dont believe he made  or 
authorised them, and I dont believe there was anything like the necessary level of 
carelessness required here. In my view, the disputed withdrawals should be refunded in full, 
along with interest  and a payment in recognition of the additional distress that the banks 
handling of this complaint has caused  Mr M. 
Whilst, as J.P. Morgan has pointed out, the account didnt attract  interest, I believe it is 
appropriate to include an award of interest  in this case. That award  isnt intended  to reflect  
interest that Mr M would have received; rather,  at least  in part, its compensation for being  
deprived of funds  and so is based  on the cost of borrowing  rather than on a savings rate. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited should, to resolve  Mr Ms 
complaint: 
refund the disputed withdrawals in full; 
pay interest on the refunds at 8% a year simple,  from the date of each withdrawal  until 
the date of the refund; and 
pay Mr M a further £200  in recognition of the distress caused to him.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Ref: DRN30410243Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3041024