K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about rude, abusive, unprofessional and discriminatory behaviour  of 
staff employed by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
In May 2018  Mr D made a payment at a branch of Barclays of £20 in cash  to a credit card he 
holds with another bank Ill call E. He received a statement from E later that month that didnt 
show the above payment. He contacted E and it said hed need to request a bank trace from 
Barclays.
In September  2018 Mr D went to a Barclays branch and made payments to accounts he 
holds with Barclays. He says he then showed the cashier the letter hed had from E about 
tracing the payment to his credit card. He says the cashier was very rude and abusive  and 
told him she couldnt do anything because Barclays systems werent  working properly. He 
says this was untrue  and discriminatory because  the cashier was then able to serve  other 
customers who were white.
Mr D complained to Barclays but it didnt uphold his complaint and he referred it to this 
service
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He thought an argument  
had developed between Mr D and the cashier  but he couldnt say who was to blame.  He 
didnt think the evidence enabled  him to conclude Mr D was discriminated against.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided a statement in which he sets out what he says happened in the branch on 
the day in question. Ive considered this carefully  along with the evidence Barclays  has 
provided from the members of its staff who were also present.
In support of his complaint, Mr D says the information he was given by the cashier about the 
systems not working  was proved to be incorrect because another  member  of staff was 
subsequently able to assist him with tracing the payment to E. Barclays says Mr D told the 
cashier he wanted to make a complaint and the cashier couldnt do this because  the system 
for logging  complaints wasnt working. The other member  of staff was able to obtain 
information about the trace without  using the complaints  system.
It seems  to me that there were possibly misunderstandings on both sides  about what Mr D 
wanted Barclays to do and why it couldnt do what he wanted. Regrettably this led to a 
heated exchange and the cashier refusing to serve Mr D any longer. However,  another 
member of Barclays staff then dealt with Mr D and was able to assist him.
Ref: DRN37178072Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Barclays carried  out a thorough investigation  of 
Mr Ds complaint about the way he was treated. Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Barclays to conclude, on the evidence, that its cashier hadnt  been rude or abusive to Mr D 
or discriminated against him on the grounds of his colour. Im not persuaded that I could 
reasonably decide that Barclays ought  to have reached a different conclusion  following its 
investigation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3717807