K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains ReAssure Limited  has caused him distress  as it delayed the maturity 
payment from his endowment policy and gave him incorrect information. 
background
Mr A has a unit linked  endowment policy that was due to mature on 15 October 2018. On 4 
September 2018 he was sent a maturity pack which asked him to complete some forms and 
let him know  the estimated maturity value  was £25,334.03  but that was subject to change 
depending on unit prices.  
Mr A completed and returned the forms. ReAssure wrote to him on 26 September  2018 
explaining it had everything it needed  to pay the maturity value. On 24 October 2018 
ReAssure contacted Mr A to confirm whether the policy  was still assigned as it had 
previously been  assigned to his lender. Mr A confirmed it wasnt. As he still hadnt  received 
any funds by 31 October 2018, Mr A contacted ReAssure  to find out what was happening. 
He was told it takes up to10 days to make  payment and the maturity  figure  was £24,282.10.  
Mr A called back later the same day to query the value and was told, incorrectly,  the figure 
was £25,282.10.
When payment was made on 5 November 2018,  it was for £24,282.10.  As this wasnt  the 
figure hed been  told, and because of the delays, Mr A complained.  ReAssure considered 
the complaint  and agreed it had got things wrong. It accepted Mr A had been  given wrong  
information about the maturity value on 31 October. It also accepted that matters  had been 
delayed as it should have seen it needed  further  information about the assignment of the 
policy before  the maturity  date. So it added interest to the maturity  value and offered  Mr A 
£200 compensation for what went wrong. 
Mr A asked us to look into this. Our investigator was satisfied  ReAssure had already offered 
fair compensation to Mr A for what went wrong. But Mr A didnt  agree.  He doesnt accept he 
has been compensated for the distress this has caused, which has exacerbated medical 
problems, and he has lost £1,000  from the original letter in September.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find ReAssure has 
already fairly resolved this complaint.  
I would like to assure  both Mr A and ReAssure that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments above,  I have read and considered  everything  in its entirety.
Contrary to Mr As arguments he hasnt lost £1,000  from the September 2018 letter.  The 
maturity pack explained that ReAssure estimate that the value would be £25,334..03  on 
maturity but that the amount wasnt guaranteed and could go down or up before the maturity  
date. So Mr A was told £25,334.03 wasnt necessarily the final maturity  value. 
Between 4 September  2018 and 15 October  2018 - the maturity  date - there was as fall in 
unit prices which meant  there  was a fall in the maturity value. Mr A was only ever entitled  to 
the maturity value on the day, which was calculated at £24,282.10.  Im satisfied Mr A has 
been paid the correct  maturity value. 
Ref: DRN32814612ReAssure accepts that it should have  noticed it would need information about  the 
assignment sooner.  But I cant  say ReAssure was wrong to clarify that. Mr A had indicated 
on his payment release form the policy had never  been assigned  when  it had been,  to his 
previous lender. Once it received confirmation  it was no longer assigned  it processed the 
payment. Because of that delay it meant Mr A received his maturity  value about 15 days late 
and thats something  he should be fairly  compensated  for. ReAssure has added interest to 
the maturity value which I would have asked  it to do had it not already done so. 
ReAssure also accepts  Mr A was given wrong information about  the maturity  value in a call 
on 31 October 2018. I appreciate Mr A finds it hard to accept this was simply someone 
reading the figures wrong. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence this was anything 
other than human error.  It must have been disappointing to receive less when the maturity 
value was finally paid but I find no basis on which to ask it to pay an amount he wasnt  
entitled to under the terms of the policy. 
Its right that Mr A should be compensated for what went wrong. And when deciding  about 
fair compensation I look at the impact  that wrong  doing had. I understand Mr A has medical 
conditions and his worry about this has caused sleepless nights. But I do need to bear in 
mind that the delay  was limited to 15 days from the maturity date and he has been 
compensated for his financial loss. And he was told on 31 October 2018 the approximate 
date payment would  be made (it was in fact made sooner than that).  In all Im satisfied  £200  
is a fair reflection  of the impact ReAssures processing of the maturity  of the policy  had. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that ReAssure Limited has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. ReAssure Limiteds offer of £200 is still open  for acceptance. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281461