K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined the claim he made under an income  protection  
policy.
background
Mr W was a member  of his employers group income protection  scheme. This meant he 
would receive a benefit, after a waiting period, if he was unable to complete the duties  of his 
occupation because  of illness or injury.
Mr W had been suffering with symptoms  including shortness of breath and fatigue for 
several years. In 2015  his symptoms  worsened and he worked reduced hours, with reduced  
responsibilities for a time.  His symptoms  continued  and he reports to have suffered a flu-like 
episode which led to him taking sick leave from work in August 2016.  
Mr W made a claim under his policy  as he felt the symptoms  he was suffering  with meant it 
was unlikely he would be able to return to work. Unum declined the claim in May 2017 
because it didnt feel there was enough  medical  evidence to show  Mr W was unable  to 
perform the duties of his role.
Mr W appealed the decision and also made  a complaint. Unum considered the further 
evidence provided  during  the appeal but remained of the opinion there wasnt enough 
evidence to accept  the claim. 
In January 2018 Unum formally offered  £20,000 to Mr Ws employer in full and final 
settlement of the claim and related complaint. Unum says this offer was made as an 
alternative resolution and to help the employer  try and resolve the situation  with Mr W. The 
employer passed  this offer on to Mr W but he declined, as he maintained  he was unable  to 
perform the duties of his role.
In March 2018 Unum  arranged  for surveillance and a functioning capability evaluation to be 
carried out to investigate the claim  further.  Upon receiving the results of these it maintained  
the claim would  not be accepted.      
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out why I didnt think Unum had 
unfairly declined  Mr Ws claim or taken too long to make decisions about it. I said,  in 
summary, that:
Since stopping work, various professionals has said they thought Mr W was suffering 
with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).  Unum  hadnt ruled  out this possibility, but had 
assessed  in line with the policy wording and definitions  whether or not his symptoms 
left him unable to complete the duties of his role. I thought that was important because 
not everyone who is diagnosed with CFS will be unable to work. And Mr Ws diagnosis  
isnt what was in question in this case  it was whether or not, with or without  CFS, he 
met the incapacity  policy definition.
Mr W stopped work in August 2016 due to symptoms including severe respiratory  
problems, lack of breath, fatigue and an inability to move  around his place  of work. But, 
according to his GP, Mr W had been  experiencing those same  symptoms since 2010. I 
thought the evidence  showed hed been able to work in his role throughout that time,  
with the exception of a period  in 2015 when his hours and duties were reduced. But, 
Ref: DRN33490962even then, the evidence suggested  he was able to gradually increase his hours.  Mr W 
had also told us he considered himself a well man before he stopped working in 2016 
and that the health conditions he had suffered with up until that point were well-
managed. I could see nothing in Mr Ws medical  notes  or reports produced by other 
professional that explained why his condition suddenly worsened or what  significant 
events mightve occurred that meant  by August 2016 he was no longer able to work.  The 
only change appeared to be that he contracted the flu. But Unum pointed  out that such a 
condition is generally  expected to be short-term and there was no evidence which said if, 
or why, that particular  illness  exacerbated Mr Ws condition or caused a significant or 
persistent change . So I could see why Unum had concerns given it was unclear how the 
same symptoms Mr W had been reporting  for several years  prevented  him from 
undertaking the duties of his role in 2016,  when  they hadnt been from 2010  until that 
point. 
Mr W had provided  several professional opinions regarding  his condition, symptoms  and 
CFS diagnosis. Unum  had also provided  evidence from third party professionals.  I 
considered all of this information very carefully  and overall, I wasnt  persuaded there  was 
enough evidence  to support Mr Ws assertion that he was unable to perform  the duties of 
his role due to illness or injury.  Although I could see he had received some  evidence 
from professionals that stated this, I felt there were also inconsistencies with this 
evidence. 
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellences (NICE) guidance suggests a 
CFS diagnosis should only be made  after other possible  diagnoses have  been  excluded. 
And a CFS diagnosis should be reconsidered if therere also sleep disturbance issues.  
Unum noted the private physician who specialised in, and diagnosed Mr W with, CFS did 
not appear to follow this guidance. I understood why Unum  had those  concerns  and also 
thought the evidence  suggested that the physician did not have a comprehensive  
understanding of Mr Ws medical history, but instead relied mainly on Mr Ws self-
reporting. This included Mr W dismissing the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea even  
though Mr Ws other  medical  records suggested  he was likely  experiencing this 
condition. I didnt  think Unum  had acted unreasonably in refusing to accept this 
physicians opinion and/or diagnosis in isolation.
Mr W had provided  opinions  from other professionals including two occupational health 
physicians. But although these confirmed a CFS diagnosis and that Mr W was unfit for 
work, they seemed largely based on Mr Ws self-reporting of his symptoms. And while  
self-reporting certainly forms part of a claim like this, I notes that I wouldnt expect a 
claim to be paid solely on the strength of such evidence.
Given the inconsistences and in the absence of any persuasive  of comprehensive 
explanations about why Mr Ws health  had changed so significantly in 2016 I didnt think  
it was unfair of Unum  to initially decline his claim or offer the £20,000  lump  sum. Equally, 
as Mr W declined that offer, I didnt  think it was unreasonable for Unum to gather  further  
evidence  via a functioning  capability evaluation (FCE) and surveillance  in order  to 
further assess Mr Ws ability to work. 
I didnt think it was inappropriate, given the particular circumstances of this claim, for 
Unum to undertake  surveillance. Ultimately, Unums notes indicate it didnt think  the 
surveillance footage provided any real indication of Mr Ws functional capacity but did 
demonstrate inconsistencies in his behaviour.
Ref: DRN33490963Unum arranged for an FCE to be carried out to establish Mr Ws functioning abilities, 
limitations and restrictions. This evaluation also specifically  tested  sincerity  of effort in 
various different  ways . I was satisfied, despite  what Mr W had said, that the osteopath 
who administered the FCE was qualified and trained  to spot inconsistencies  that seemed 
out of the ordinary  and comment on them. Ultimately,  the inconsistencies demonstrated 
with many of the tests  meant the results were inconclusive  and didnt  support  Mr Ws 
reporting of symptoms.
Unum accepted my provisional findings,  but Mr W did not. He maintains that he meets the 
incapacity definition  such that his claim should  be paid and also said,  in summary, that:
The health professionals  Mr W consulted would not have just diagnosed him with CFS or 
said he was unfit for work based purely  on his self-reporting.
The reason  for the deterioration  in his health  is still somewhat unclear,  but it was wrong  
of me to say it was a sudden worsening  or deterioration. He simply found he was unable  
to carry out the duties  of his role after the flu/chest infection in 2016 and it may well be 
that was the catalyst   other suffered in Mr Ws support  group have reported  similar  
experiences.
His wife cares for him while holding down her own job. Her life has been  impacted as a 
result and Unum could have asked  her about this rather than making  assumptions.
Another physician has said Mr W does not suffer  from sleep apnoea
If Unum had genuine and legitimate concerns about the CFS specialists diagnosis they 
could have questioned him further rather than, for example,  undertaking  convert 
surveillance.
Unums £20,000  settlement offer was conditional upon him terminating  his employment 
which he considered  unacceptable, particularly given that the policy allows for the benefit  
to be paid for up to five years. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I still think  Unun acted 
fairly through  its handling and rejection of Mr Ws claim. 
As Ive said before, its not for me to reach  my own conclusion about Mr Ws health, to make 
my own medical diagnosis or to determine  what may have contributed  to Mr Ws symptoms 
worsening to the extent  he no longer  felt able to continue working. My role is to decide 
whether or not Unum  reasonably declined the claim based on the information it had at the 
various points in time and the terms of the policy. And I have already explained  given the 
inconsistencies in some of the evidence presented and reliance on self-reporting  why I 
dont think it was wrong of Unum  to seek further evidence rather  than relying  solely on the 
evidence provided  by the health professionals Mr W consulted privately who diagnosed 
and/or reported  on his CFS and fitness to work.
In particular, I still dont  think  it was inappropriate for Unum to undertake  convert 
surveillance. As I said in my provisional  decision,  I recognise its unlikely all of Mr Ws 
symptoms were going to be substantiated in video surveillance as it can be difficult to 
Ref: DRN33490964identify and record visual symptoms like fatigue.  But the purpose of the surveillance was to 
determine if Mr W acted without the symptoms hed reported when  he wasnt  aware he was 
being observed. I dont think the video  footage  and surveillance  report alone proves Mr W 
was able to return  to his job, but I dont think it reflects exactly  the symptoms  and state  of 
health hes described either. So I do I think  it was reasonable for Unum to obtain  and use 
this evidence when  assessing the claim.  
Also, Ive seen nothing  which shows  Unum  knew, when it declined the claim, that another 
physician had decided  that Mr W was not experiencing sleep apnoea. This same  physician 
is mentioned in the medical records Unum was provided. And, in May 2017, as mentioned  in 
my provisional decision, Mr W asked his GP to remove the sleep apnoea  diagnosis  from his 
medical records because  he drove  for a living  which I had concerns about given there was 
no reference to this in Mr Ws job description. At that point, the GP wrote to the physician Mr 
W has mentioned in light of his request and said he tells me you refuted the diagnosis 
though not in a letter  to me. Mr W has provided evidence from a number of health 
professionals but this didnt include anything from the physician hes mentioned which  
refutes the sleep apnoea diagnosis. 
I have seen the letter Unum sent to Mr Ws employer  in January 2018, which says the 
£20,00 lump sum payment  was offered to the employer  as they were the policyholder  in 
full and final settlement  of the claim and complaint. It was for the employer to decide  whether 
to pass on that offer to Mr W and it may be they chose to attach further  conditions  relating to 
Mr Ws ongoing employment.  But I havent seen anything which supports Mr Ws 
suggestions that Unum  applied  such conditions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3349096