K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  is responsible for mishandling his claim on a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr O had a policy that covered repairs to his central heating  boiler  unless the boiler was 
beyond economic repair (BER)  when Aviva would pay £200.00  towards a new boiler.
The policy was in the name  of a home assistance company. But Aviva was the insurer  
responsible for dealing  with claims. Where  I refer to Aviva I include the home assistance 
company and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their actions.
On about 13 October  2018, Mr Os boiler  broke down. He contacted Aviva for help.  But 
Aviva said the boiler was BER. Aviva paid Mr O £200.00 and cancelled the policy.
Mr O bought a new fan for £301.37. After  about  two weeks  without a working  boiler, Mr Os 
engineer got the boiler working by installing the fan and doing  some other repair   for a cost 
of £230.00. So Mr O complained that Aviva shouldve fixed the boiler   and should 
reimburse and compensate him. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Aviva 
had dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly. He said that the boiler appears to have been BER.
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Avivas engineers wrongly  diagnosed  the problem with the heat exchanger. His 
engineer didn't touch that and only replaced the fan and the expansion vessel  and 
fixed a small leak on the fill pipe.
If there  was an issue with the heat exchanger the boiler would no longer be working 
yet it's working faultlessly.
He only had to spend a few hundred  pounds rather  than a few thousand pounds to 
get it fixed but this should have been covered by the insurance he paid for.
Aviva  inflated the repair bill to make  the boiler fall into the BER bracket and pay 
£200.00 rather than do the work required to fix the boiler.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Beyond Economical Repair (BER) (applies to the boiler only): Upon making a claim, 
the total cost of parts (including VAT) required to repair the boiler  will be determined 
by us using reputable suppliers. If this cost exceeds  85% of the manufacturer's 
current retail price  (or if this is not available,  the average current  retail  price available 
Ref: DRN32297652through leading UK suppliers) for a boiler of the same or similar make and model to 
your boiler or the then current  version of your boiler,  it will be deemed to be BER.
Mr Os engineers invoice  is for installing a fan and expansion vessel.  Ive seen Mr Os 
evidence of the cost of the fan but not the expansion  vessel. But Ive seen Avivas costings. 
So I find it likely that Mr Os engineer got the boiler  working by fitting parts that cost a small 
fraction of the price  for a replacement boiler. And I accept Mr Os recent statement that the 
boiler is still working.
But Avivas  engineer had categorised Mr Os boiler  as at risk because of water leaks within 
the boiler and because  it had a broken room seal. He recommended  a replacement  boiler.
Aviva later said its engineers diagnosis  was as follows:
Heat exchanger  leaking,  diverter valve aav (automatic air vent) dhw (domestic  hot 
water) vessel and filling loop, fan has been  leaked upon and boiler at risk, warning 
note issued for water leaks. Boiler not room sealed.  
The total amount  for the parts came  to £1,606.81. That is above 85% of the price  of a 
replacement boiler.
Mr Os engineers invoice  didnt mention repair of leaks  to the heat exchanger, diverter valve  
or filling loop  nor repair of the room seal. But Mr Os engineer hasnt  stated that there were 
no such leaks  or lack of room seal. So I find that there were  leaks  including  from the heat 
exchanger. And I dont  find that Aviva  treated  Mr O unfairly by saying his boiler  was BER. 
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  Aviva to pay Mr O any more  than the £200.00 it 
has already paid him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3229765