K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Nationwide Building  Societys best savings rates  are only available to 
people who bank online. He wants to be able to access its 5% Regular Saver  account  
without needing  to use the internet. 
background
Mr W has been a Nationwide customer for a number of years. Hes previously invested in 
its12-month 5% Regular Saver Account. This type of account  initially has a high headline 
interest rate of 5%. After 12 months,  the account  automatically transfers into an instant 
access savings account with a lower rate.
Towards the end of 2018 Mr W wrote to Nationwide. He wasnt  happy that this 5% account 
was now only going to be available online.  Mr W stated he wasnt an internet user. 
Nationwide told him it had decided to move  this product to online only as the account users 
were largely  digitally active already. It added that being online only was more cost effective 
and the interest  rate reflected this. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this. He brought his complaint to our service where it was looked 
into by one of our adjudicators. She didnt  think Nationwide had done  anything wrong. In 
brief, the adjudicator didnt think it was unreasonable for the society  to offer this interest rate 
to online  customers only. She also said that Nationwide hadnt  excluded anyone from 
opening this type of account. 
Mr W didnt accept this. He said Nationwide  has excluded  those persons who dont bank 
online by making  it a condition of opening a Flex Regular Online Saver account that you 
must have  online  banking. 
As Mr W didnt agree  with our adjudicator, his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did Nationwide treat Mr W unfairly  when it decided its 5% Regular Saver  Account  would  only 
be available to online customers? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr W says Nationwide is discriminating against  non internet  users  such as him by restricting  
access to its higher interest  accounts to those  customers with online banking. I dont agree. 
Ref: DRN39352372Our role is to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.  
To do this, there are a number of things I have to take into account. These include the 
relevant law. 
When thinking about discrimination, I need  to take into account the Equality Act 2010 (the 
Act). I would make it clear here that it isnt the role of our service to decide if Nationwide has 
broken the law and breached the Act. Thats a matter for a court to decide. 
But I would point out that the Act says that people  with protected  characteristics mustnt  be 
discriminated against. Protected characteristics include  such  things as a persons race or 
religion. A non-internet user isnt included as a protected characteristic. So, Im satisfied that 
it seems fair and reasonable to say the Act doesnt  apply to the circumstances of Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Its also not our role to tell a bank or building society what  products it should offer and to 
whom. Thats a commercial decision for individual businesses to make. We wont usually 
interfere with a businesss commercial judgement where its been  exercised fairly and 
reasonably. Given that being a non-internet  user isnt a protected  characteristic under the 
Act, Im satisfied  Nationwide  has exercised that judgement fairly and reasonably here. 
I can see that Mr W feels strongly about  this. Nationwide  has told him that the lower cost of 
an online  only account is why it can offer a better  rate. Mr W says the cost involved in 
running his previous Regular Saver Account was minimal. That may well be the case. But its 
not just the cost of how Mr W operates his account  thats relevant here. Nationwide will look 
at many things, including the behaviour  of all its customers, when  deciding  the details of its 
products. 
Mr W has made it clear  that he doesnt  use the internet and doesnt  do online banking.  
Thats his decision.  Its one that hes perfectly entitled to make.  But its not a decision thats 
been imposed  on him by Nationwide. 
So, in all the circumstances  here,  I dont think Nationwide has treated Mr W unfairly when it 
only offered its 5% Regular Saver Account to online  customers.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
25 March 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3935237