K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aquacard) provided her with a credit  
card irresponsibly.  Shes  said that Aqua would have  seen she was already in debt if it had 
carried out checks and it was unreasonable for Aqua to then increase the credit limit.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 11 October  2019, which  forms part of this final decision. In 
my provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, despite being chased for a response and having been provided with a further 
copy of my provisional decision, Aqua  didnt  respond or ask for any additional  time to do so. 
Mrs M also didnt  provide anything further for me to think about.  
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in my provisional  
decision. I have  to say that its incredibly disappointing Aqua chose not to even acknowledge 
my provisional decision let alone provide  a response.  However,  in the absence  of anything  
further from either party, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
fair compensation  what  Aqua needs to do to put things right for Mrs M.
In order to put things  right for Mrs M, Aqua should:
return Mrs Ms account balance back to what it was at the time of her October 2016 
statement; and
rework the account to ensure that from July 2014 until October 2016 interest is only 
charged on the first £850.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit  limit 
increases should have  been  provided.  All late payment and over limit fees should  
also be removed; and
the payments  Mrs M made from July 2014  onwards (including the ones made  after 
October 2016) should then be deducted from the reworked account balance.  Any 
extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments  and refunded to Mrs M; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if they were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to take off tax from this interest. Aqua must give     
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
 
Ref: DRN34193792From what  Ive seen it appears as though  Aqua sold the outstanding balance  on this account 
to a third party debt purchaser. So it either needs  to buy the account back from the third 
party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party  in order for it to 
make the necessary adjustments,  or pay Mrs M an amount to ensure that it fully complies 
with this direction.
Finally Aqua  should  arrange a suitable  repayment plan with Mrs M if an outstanding balance  
remains on the account after all adjustments have been made. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 11 October 2019, Im 
upholding Mrs Ms complaint. NewDay Ltd should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34193793Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs M has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aquacard) provided her with a credit  
card irresponsibly.  Shes  said that Aqua would have  seen she was already in debt if it had 
carried out checks and it was unreasonable for Aqua to then increase the credit limit.
background
Aqua provided Mrs M with a credit card, with an initial credit limit of £300,  in May 2013. This 
information provided in Aquas file indicates  that Mrs M was offered credit  limit increases to 
the following  amounts  on the following occasions:
Date Amount of additional credit New limit
September 2013 £350.00 £650.00
January 2014 £200.00 £850.00
July 2014 £800.00 £1,650.00
December 2014 £850.00 £2,500.00
July 2015 £750.00 £3,250.00
November 2016 £1,000.00 £4,250.00
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ms complaint.  He didnt think that Aqua had done 
anything wrong  or that it had treated her unfairly. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
the regulations  in place  at the time of the respective lending  decisions
 
Aqua gave Mrs M her Credit Card when it was regulated by the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT). In March  2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear guidance on the test for 
irresponsible lending  for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
And so it issued its guidance  on irresponsible lending (ILG).
Section four of the ILG is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders were  
required to carry out before  granting  credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Ref: DRN34193794Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
 
At the time of Mrs Ms third credit limit increase in July 2014 (and all of the subsequent  ones)  
the regulation  of Consumer Credit providers  like Aqua   was now the responsibility  of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).  And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the time 
were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer borrowing of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mrs Ms credit card), to make  payments within a reasonable period.
Ref: DRN34193795CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive considered this while 
provisionally deciding  Mrs Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think that there are three overarching 
questions that I need  to consider in order to provisionally decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint. These questions are:    
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay what she borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision (in other  words - when initially providing the card and then each time 
it increased the credit limit)?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each credit limit increase, was 
there a point where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing        
Mrs Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful and so 
shouldnt have  provided further  credit?
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably  towards  Mrs M in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these  questions in turn.
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mrs M would be 
able to repay what she borrowed in a sustainable  way at the time of each  lending  decision?
The rules  and regulations throughout Aquas lending relationship  with Mrs M required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
Ref: DRN34193796what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Aqua had to think  about whether repaying  the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs M. In practice 
this meant  that Aqua had to ensure that making  the payments  to the credit wouldnt cause 
Mrs M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words,  it wasnt enough for Aqua 
to simply think  about the likelihood  of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the impact  
of any repayments  on Mrs M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Aqua did what it needed  to before initially agreeing 
to Mrs Ms credit  card and each  time it increased  her credit limit. 
Aquas initial  decision  to provide Mrs M with a credit  card
Aqua says that before agreeing to provide  Mrs M with a credit  card it asked Mrs M to confirm 
her annual income. It also says that it carried out a credit check  which  indicated that she 
wasnt in arrears on any accounts and defaults.  It says that based on the information  it had it 
was reasonable  for it to have provided Mrs M with an initial credit limit of £300.  
Mrs M was given  a credit  facility where  there was an expectation that shed  repay what she 
borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. The ILG doesnt  set out 
what a reasonable  period of time is. So I think its important to note that a reasonable period 
of time will always  be dependent on the circumstances of the individual  case.  
That said,  I do think that Mrs Ms self-declared income together  with there not being anything 
too concerning  on her credit file leads me to think that it was reasonable and proportionate 
for Aqua to conclude Mrs M would be able to repay  £300 within a reasonable period of time.  
So I dont  think that Aqua did anything  wrong  when it initially  provided Mrs M with a credit  
card that had a £300 limit.    
Ref: DRN34193797the first credit limit increase in September 2013
Aqua offered  Mrs M a credit limit increase to £650 in September 2013. In my view, this was 
a significant increase and Aqua needed  to ensure Mrs M could sustainably  repay  a balance 
of £650 within a reasonable period of time. Aquas correspondence  appears to suggest that 
its decision to increase the credit limit on Mrs Ms account was based on her account 
management. I have  significant concerns with the principle of this approach.  
It is not clear  to me why a borrower who is able to successfully manage a given credit  limit 
can then automatically  be deemed,  without further checks, to be able to successfully 
manage a higher limit. It seems to me that this logic would likely lead to continually  
increasing limits, unless or until problems arise. And for reasons Ill go on to explain later on 
in this decision, thats precisely what ended up happening further down the line in this case.
Notwithstanding this, at the time of the first limit increase I can see that Mrs M had made  a 
couple of large  payments to her account  and the balance was kept under the limit for the six 
months or so since the account had been. So I can to some  extent see why this may have 
given Aqua the impression that Mrs M was managing the account  well. And although  I dont 
think that this is, in itself,  means that Mrs M was in a position  to sustainably repay the 
balance within a reasonable  period I find that the decision to increase Mrs Ms credit  limit to 
£650 wasnt unreasonable.      
the second credit limit increase  in January 2014
The second  credit limit increase increased  Mrs Ms credit limit by £200  from £650 to £850. It 
took effect in March  2014. I accept that as the limit was only increased by £200,  there  is an 
argument for saying  that this wasnt a significant  increase to the credit limit and so there 
wasnt a need  for a further affordability  assessment. But £200  was almost a third of the 
previous £650  limit. So Im not necessarily  persuaded by this argument. I dont know what  
checks, if any at all, Aqua carried out before deciding to offer the credit  limit increase to 
£850. Aquas  submission  on this point can only be described as being sketchy at best. 
But, in any event, the information  I have  leads me to think  that its more likely than not that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would not have shown that Mrs M wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably  repay the additional £200 within a reasonable period of time. So I dont 
think that it was wholly  unreasonable  for Aqua to have offered and then provided this credit 
limit increase to Mrs M.
 
That said,  I do think that there was a pattern  beginning  to emerge in Mrs Ms management of 
her account.  Mrs Ms was only just within her existing credit limit when the first limit increase  
was granted in November 2013.  And she immediately exceeded her limit once the               
March 2014 limit increase took place.  
Furthermore while Mrs Ms payments,  after the card was first provided, were making inroads 
into the outstanding balance, Mrs M pretty  much  only made  the minimum payment due from 
November 2013.  So Mrs Ms payment history was beginning to suggest that she might not 
have been able to repay  her account  balance within a reasonable period of time.  But even 
though I think  that there were some  warning signs that Aqua ought  reasonably  to have been 
alert to, I dont think I can say that the emerging pattern in the management  of Mrs Ms 
account, in itself, demonstrated that the borrowing  had become unsustainable  or harmful  
such that I could  reasonably say that the facts spoke for themselves. 
Ref: DRN34193798the third and subsequent credit limit increases from July 2014 onwards
Aqua increased Mrs Ms credit limit by £800  to £1,650 in July 2014.  This clearly was a 
significant increase.  So Aqua needed to carry out further checks to understand whether     
Mrs M could  sustainably repay a balance  of £1,650 within a reasonable period of time. Aqua 
hasnt said exactly what it was it relied  on in order to conclude  that Mrs M would be able to 
sustainably repay  a credit limit of £1,650.00. It simply provided a generic response saying:
Since June 2014,  when making  a decision to increase a credit limit we will consider things 
such as utilisation,  account maintenance as well as Bureau data and our own internal risk 
strategies. Prior to this, increases were given based  on how the account  was maintained. At 
the time of the increases there  were  no concerns. 
Aqua appears either unable or unwilling to tell us precisely what it did to ascertain Mrs Ms 
ability to sustainably repay the extra  credit  it offered. Indeed  Aqua appears  to be relying 
heavily on its internal  risk strategies. Given Aqua insists that Mrs Ms credit was 
responsibly provided, it ought  to know  and explained  exactly what information it 
gathered, how it interpreted this information and how its internal risk strategies  led to 
responsible lending decisions being  made in this particular case.  
Indeed it appears  as though Aqua expects me to simply accept its standard  process  (and 
internal risk strategies) always  leads  to fair lending  decisions. Without such an explanation 
from Aqua,  I cannot and will not take it as read that its decisions to lend to Mrs M were  fair 
simply because its  internal risk strategies  approved these increases. In any event,  even 
if I were to leave my concerns about  Aquas  checks to one side,  for reasons Ill go on to 
explain in the next section  of this provisional decision, I dont think  that it was fair and 
reasonable for Aqua to have offered the further increases from the £850 credit limit onwards.   
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each credit limit increase, was there  a 
point where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised  it was increasing Mrs Ms indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
credit?
Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance  referred to earlier  in this decision - makes 
it clear that a lender shouldnt continue offering credit where  the borrowing is unsustainable  
or otherwise harmful and/or where  its apparent the borrower may be experiencing financial 
difficulties. So in addition  to assessing the circumstances behind  each individual  lending  
decision, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at what  unfolded during the course  of 
Mrs Ms account history with Aqua  especially how it was managed.  
Ive already explained why, at present, I think that reasonable  and proportionate affordability  
checks werent completed from the second  credit limit onwards. And that based on the 
evidence on file, I cant say that proportionate checks would  not have shown that the first 
and second limit increases when considered individually were unsustainable.
I also explained that while I was concerned with the direction of travel of the account after 
the first limit increase and I think that there  were  some clear warning signs that Aqua ought  
to have been alert to, I dont think I can say that Mrs Ms account history,  in itself, 
demonstrated that any further credit  would be unsustainable or harmful for her  such that 
I could reasonably say that the facts  spoke for themselves  when Aqua offered the second 
limit increase in to £850 in November  2013.  But looking at what happened after January 
Ref: DRN341937992014 (when the second limit increase came  into effect), I think that what had, up until that 
point, been an emerging pattern of Mrs Ms being unable to manage her account and her 
existing debt became  established. 
Ive already said that there was an emerging pattern,  after the first limit increase, of Mrs M 
only making the minimum payments each month and that this was coupled with Mrs M 
utilising all of the available  funds straight after the limit was increased. But this worsened in 
the period after this. Indeed Mrs M exceeded  her limit immediately after being given the 
second credit limit increase in March 2014.  Mrs M then once again exceeded her exceeded 
her existing credit limit in July 2014,  which was the month that she was offered her third limit 
increase. And I think that the account was never really able to recover  from this point.
The graph below shows Mrs Ms credit limit, her outstanding balance  and the payments she 
made on a monthly  basis throughout the period that she had the account.  The credit  limit 
increases are included  from the month  they took effect.        
This graph illustrates  in a much clearer way than words  alone ever could - just how        
Mrs Ms account was being  managed after each limit increase. It clearly  shows that Mrs M 
immediately utilised all of the funds available after a limit increase took effect on every  
occasion. The graph  also shows that the monthly payment made never increased in 
proportion with the limit increases either. So Mrs M never made any real inroads into what 
she owed Aqua. 
In my view, this showed that Mrs M may well have been struggling financially (her account 
statements showing her spending on the card days after making around the minimum 
payment due supports this) and, at the very least, it was a clear indication  that she wasnt  
managing her account well. Aqua will also be aware that it was required to monitor Mrs Ms 
repayment record and offering assistance where  it appeared that she might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty.
I dont think that nearly quadrupling Mrs Ms credit  limit  in the period between  July 2014 
and November 2016 and therefore offering  substantially more credit at an APR of 29.9% - 
when Mrs M was already  struggling to manage  her existing debt was offering assistance. In 
my view, Aqua increasing Mrs Ms credit limit in this way and in these circumstances was 
adding to any potential  financial difficulty  rather than offering assistance. 
Im also astounded by Aquas decision to offer Mrs M a credit limit increase in the 
circumstances that it did in November 2016.  Aqua  says that it wouldnt necessarily decline to 
offer an increase  just because a borrower exceeded their credit limit as long as the account 
was immediately brought up to date. But Mrs M was charged over limit fees (and so was 
over her limit) in August  2016, September 2016  and October 2016.  So her account  clearly 
wasnt immediately brought back within its limit. And it also looks like she was also charged 
late payment fees too. 
And leaving aside  my concerns at Aqua appearing to have failed to follow its own lending  
policy, the November  2016 increase clearly took place after a sustained  period of Mrs M 
proving herself  unable  to manage her account  and being over her limit. I cant  see any 
reasonable basis for Aqua concluding  that this payment record  meant that Mrs M would be 
able to sustainably  repay a further  £1000 within a reasonable period of time.   
Ref: DRN341937910In my view, Aqua increasing Mrs Ms credit  limit in this way - while she was demonstrating 
an inability to manage her existing  debt - unfairly  increased and prolonged her indebtedness. 
I think that Aqua ought fairly  and reasonably to have realised that Mrs Ms existing  debt may 
well have become  a problem and taken  steps other than continuing to provide more and 
more expensive credit. Instead, its actions mean that Mrs M paid Aqua high amounts of 
interest for the privilege of it allowing her to delay dealing with her unsustainable debt.
Ive seen what Aqua has said about it sending Mrs M letters offering her the opportunity  to 
opt out of the proposed  limit increases. But I dont see how this makes a difference  as to 
whether it was fair and reasonable to offer these limit increases in the first place. It seems to 
me that Aqua is trying to outsource its responsibility  to assess whether Mrs M was able to 
sustainably make the payments to an increased  credit limit onto Mrs M. And I dont find this 
argument persuasive. 
Furthermore Aqua says that its product is:
typically marketed towards (but not restricted to) customers that may find it difficult  to get 
credit and thus gives them the opportunity to rebuild their credit rating, this aligns with our 
manifesto of being  a welcoming company and giving those with previous financial difficulties 
a second chance.
I dont see how continually increasing  Mrs Ms debt to an unsustainable level provided Mrs M 
with a second chance. Instead it made it more likely that she might once again experience 
financial difficulty. And it arguably  unfairly  trapped her into a cycle of only being  able to 
access high-cost credit  because her failure  to manage this account  made  it less likely 
mainstream lenders  would provide  credit  to her. 
Given all of Aquas obligations and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account  the 
circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section, Im minded to find that Aqua ought 
fairly and reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have provided any further  credit  
limit increases after it increased  Mrs Ms credit limit to £850 in March  2014.
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably  towards  Mrs M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Aqua acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mrs M in some other 
way.  
So I find that Aqua didnt  act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
two and three of this decision, Im intending  to issue a final decision which finds that:
Aqua did complete reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mrs M to satisfy itself 
that she was able to sustainably  repay the initial  credit limit of £300 (in May 2013)  
and £650 at the time of the first credit  limit increase (of £350) in September  2013; 
Ref: DRN341937911Aqua didnt complete reasonable and proportionate  checks on Mrs M to satisfy  itself 
that she was able to sustainably  repay what she owed for any of the credit limit 
increases offered  from January  2014 onwards;
reasonable and proportionate checks would not more likely than not have shown   
Mrs W was unable to sustainably repay what she owed  within a reasonable period of 
time when her credit limit was increased  to £850  in March  2014;
Aqua ought fairly and reasonably to have  realised that the credit limit increases after 
March 2014 (in other words the ones from July 2014  onwards) were unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful for Mrs W and were unfairly  and excessively increasing her overall 
indebtedness; 
Aqua didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mrs W in some other way.
The above  findings leave me minded  to reach  the overall conclusion that Aqua unfairly and 
unreasonably provided  Mrs M with the credit  limit increases from July 2014 onwards.
Did Mrs M lose out as a result of Aquas shortcomings in relation to her account?
As Mrs M had to pay a significant amount of interest and charges as a result of her credit 
limit unfairly being increased from July 2014  onwards, I think that she lost out because of 
what Aqua  did wrong. So Aqua should  put things right.  
fair compensation  what  Im intending to tell Aqua to do to put things right for Mrs M
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. 
I want to start by saying  that in most cases,  where credit has been provided when it 
shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and 
charges paid by the borrower (if they were) plus interest. And the borrower would be 
expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were given. So ordinarily Id 
expect Mrs M to pay back the funds she was lent  when she used her card  but not the 
interest. 
That said,  Im mindful of the particular circumstances of this case  and I dont  think  that a 
simple refund of the interest and charges goes far enough. Ive already said that I was 
especially concerned  about the November 2016 limit increase. Aqua increased Mrs Ms 
credit limit by a further £1,000.00  at a time when it clearly would have seen that she was 
proving unable to repay a lower amount. In my view, Aqua advanced credit in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that there was a significant risk it wouldnt get 
what it was advancing  back without this causing  Mrs M financial difficulty. 
As Aquas decision to advance a substantial amount of additional credit in these 
circumstances was so egregious and Mrs M has clearly been  unable to pay these funds 
back, Im intending to say that Aqua needs to do more to put things right here.  Aqua 
provided further funds  in circumstances where it ought to have known there was realistic  
possibility it would see those funds and it, in any event, chose to take that risk. That loss 
went on to materialise and I think that its Aqua that should bear that loss. 
So to start with, Im intending to say that Aqua should write off everything  accrued on       
Mrs Ms account from November 2016 onwards  in other words,  to start with, Aqua needs 
Ref: DRN341937912to return Mrs Ms account to the balance it was at when it issued her October 2016 
statement. 
Once that is done, Aqua should then rework Mrs Ms account to remove the effect of any 
interest and charges accrued on the account  as a result of the unfair credit limit increases 
which took place  in July 2014, December 2014  and July 2015. In other words, for the period 
from the July 2014  statement up until October 2016  statement  (which  is now the end date for 
the account),  Aqua  can only add any interest due on the first £850 of the balance  (of course 
any capital spend  on the card can be included  as this isnt being written off)  all late 
payment and over limit fees also need  to be refunded irrespective of what  any reconstructed 
final balance  may show.  
The payments Mrs M made  from July 2014  onwards  including the ones made after 
October 2016 - should then be applied to the reworked balance. Any extra  that was paid 
should be treated  as overpayments  and returned to Mrs M. Aqua should also add interest, at 
8% simple  per year, from the date any overpayment was made to the date of settlement.
Aqua should  also remove  any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ms credit  file as a result 
of this account.
All of this means  that in order  to put things  right for Mrs M, Im intending to tell Aqua  to:
return Mrs Ms account balance back to what it was at the time of her October 2016 
statement; and
rework the account to ensure that from July 2014 until October 2016 interest is only 
charged on the first £850.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit  limit 
increases should have  been  provided.  All late payment and over limit fees should  
also be removed; and
the payments  Mrs M made from July 2014  onwards (including the ones made  after 
October 2016) should then be deducted from the reworked account balance.  Any 
extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments  and refunded to Mrs M; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if they were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to take off tax from this interest. Aqua must give     
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
 
From what  Ive seen it appears as though  Aqua sold the outstanding balance  on this account 
to a third party debt purchaser. So it either needs  to buy the account back from the third 
party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party  in order for it to 
make the necessary adjustments,  or pay Mrs M an amount to ensure that it fully complies 
with this direction.
Finally Aqua  should  arrange a suitable  repayment plan with Mrs M if an outstanding balance  
remains on the account after all adjustments have been made. 
Ref: DRN341937913my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained, Im intending to partially  uphold Mrs Ms complaint and say that 
NewDay Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 25 October 2019  change my mind, thats 
what Ill tell Aqua to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3419379