K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy in 1992  at the same time as they applied  for a loan in 
one of the banks branches. The PPI was in Mr Ds sole name and gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say it wasnt made  clear  the policy was optional.  They  were  given  the 
impression it was necessary to qualify for the loan and so they felt pressured to take it. 
The bank disputes  this saying it hasnt identified any failings during the sale.  
Unfortunately it cant provide Mr Ds documents from the time of the sale, but this isnt 
unreasonable or surprising  as the sale was over 25 years  ago.
As there are no documents from the sale or notes about what  was said,  I cant be sure 
how Halifax described the policy and whether it made clear  to Mr and Mrs D that they 
had a choice.  Ive thought  carefully about Mr and Mrs Ds comments  but I also have to 
take into account how long ago the meeting was and how that might impact  what  they 
recall. Without stronger evidence to show  Halifax didnt make them aware  the PPI was 
optional, and they didnt agree to take it for Mr D, I cant  fairly  uphold the complaint on 
this point.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr D to Mr and Mrs D. And it seems  to have been right 
for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. He was entitled to at 
least 12 months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to his work benefits  
and for much  longer   up to the term of the loan (60 months)  for accident  and sickness 
claims and up to 24 months for unemployment claims. Mr D told us he had savings worth 
at least three months salary  but the PPI would have allowed him to use these for other 
living expenses  whilst  not working,  or to keep them intact  for their future  needs.  So 
I think the PPI wouldve been useful for them if Mr D was sick or lost his job.
Ref: DRN35935172Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs D all the information they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I dont know  if the bank pointed out the 
main things the policy didnt cover. However  Mr D doesnt appear to have been affected  
by any of the main exclusions.  So I dont think better information about  the policy 
wouldve changed their mind  about buying it. I know Mr and Mrs D wont agree with this 
analysis, but Ive reached my conclusion after considering their circumstances at the 
time, the cost of the policy and the level of benefit it gave them.  Plus, Mr and Mrs D could 
have cancelled the PPI at any time, without any further cost.
Ive looked at all of Mr Ds comments in response  to our adjudicators letter  carefully, but for 
the reasons set out above they dont change  my conclusion. It follows  I dont think  
Mr and Mrs D have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3593517