K820x#14complaint
K on behalf of Mr B has complained that Society  of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly rejected a claim 
under his home insurance policy when part of his garage roof collapsed.
background
Mr B made a claim on his building insurance policy  for damage to his garage following 
the collapse of part of the roof. He accepted  that the damage  to the exterior  wasnt  
covered.  But he thought  he should  be able to claim  for the interior  damage.
SOL sent a loss adjuster  to inspect  the damage.  After  receiving  the loss adjusters  report  
it declined  the claim.  It said the damage  had been  caused  gradually  and that sort of 
damage  wasnt  covered  by his policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy  covers  all physical loss and damage which isnt specifically excluded. 
SOL accepted that thered been  physical damage  but relied upon an exclusion in the policy  
to decline the claim.  That exclusion says that loss or damage caused by gradual  
deterioration isnt covered.
So the first step is to consider whether the damage  happened gradually or not. SOLs  loss 
adjuster reported  that:
The internal ceiling of the garage is in a poor condition and the now exposed laths  and 
structural roof joists and timbers display  extensive decay and rot as a result of long term 
water  ingress.
That sounds  very much like gradual  damage to me  rot isnt something  that happens 
suddenly. Mr B appears to accept  that the timbers were in poor condition.
On the strict  application  of the policy terms SOL was entitled  to decline the claim. But I wont 
automatically say that its fair to rely on such an exclusion. I look at whether the consumer  
should have been aware of the damage  occurring. If I think  Mr B should have been aware 
(or ought reasonably  to have been  aware) of the damage happening  gradually, Im likely to 
agree that SOL acted  reasonably in declining the claim.
K maintains that there was no water  staining,  sagging or cracking  to the garage plaster  
ceiling, and so Mr B couldnt have foreseen that the section of ceiling would collapse.
On the other hand SOLs loss adjuster reported  as follows:
Upon  inspection of the garage  roof it was found  to be in a very poor state  of repair with 
blocked downpipes,  blocked gulleys, defective mortar upstands, missing  flashings and poor 
ridge tile mortar. Large cracks are present at the abutment of the garage roof and the main 
elevation of the property which will allow  ingress of water to roof timbers.
Ref: DRN39340942The fascia  and door frame  above  the garage  door display  long term water  damage  and the adjacent  
brick wall is badly  stained.
Ive looked  at the photos  taken by the loss adjuster and they support the above  description. 
Based on this I think it was reasonable for SOL to assume that Mr B should have been  
aware that the garage roof was in need of repair. Although he didnt keep a car in the 
garage, there were appliances in the garage, so its likely that he would have been going in 
and out from time to time.  In any event I think its likely that he would have noticed the water  
damage from outside. 
Im sorry  to learn of the damage that occurred to Mr Bs garage. However, based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  Im persuaded that Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
damage happening gradually. Consequently I think SOLs decision to decline the claim was 
fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K on behalf of 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3934094