K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Ms M complain  that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them.
background
In 1995 Mr P and Ms M applied for a mortgage from Britannia (now  part of The Co-op  so 
for simplicity  I shall just refer to that). Initially they declined PPI but in 1996  agreed to take up 
an offer of free PPI for 12 months.  The PPI covered them both for unemployment, in 
proportion to their earnings,  but it didnt provide sickness or accident cover. The mortgage 
ended in 2001. They say that they were later told when  payments  would  start to be taken  but 
werent given the option of ending the policy. And they started having to pay only about  
seven months after they accepted the offer of the free 12 months: they have been  told that 
that was because the policy had been backdated.  They initially  questioned whether the 
policy was suitable  or necessary in view of Mr Ps employment situation  and benefits.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint was not upheld. Mr P disagreed, saying his 
main concern was that they hadnt  had the full 12 months of free cover.  He felt that at the 
very least they should be reimbursed for the shortfall  in free cover.  He felt it was 
meaningless to suggest that they had had been  covered for a period before  they took out the 
insurance. The case has been passed  to me for review and a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in 
considering Mr P and Ms Ms case.
It is not disputed  that, after their mortgage had started, Mr P and Ms M took up the offer of 
PPI sent to them by post and completed and signed  an application form. Helpfully, they have 
been able to supply letters sent to them with the initial offer of PPI, confirming  that the policy  
was in place, and when the free period  was coming to an end. While their options either to 
cancel the policy or start paying premiums  could usefully have been made clearer  in the last 
of these, overall I think they would have been aware that the PPI was optional  and they 
didnt have to pay for it. I say that because:
-they only took it after their mortgage had started, so knew  it wasnt  a requirement to 
get the mortgage;
-they chose  to complete the postal  application  form;
-before  they agreed to pay anything for the PPI they had the policy  booklet  which  
referred to their right to terminate the cover by giving  written  authority, and that it 
would end if they failed to pay the premiums;
-while the letter at the end of the free period urged them  to complete the direct  debit 
mandate, it didnt  say they had to do that.
So overall I think that at the time they agreed  to have, and then to pay for, the PPI knowing 
that it was optional.
Ref: DRN37557592The letter sent to Mr P and Ms M offering the free cover did say they were entitled to free 
unemployment cover  for the first 12 months. But it could  perhaps have been made clearer 
that, since their mortgage had started  some  months  earlier, in effect they wouldnt really get 
a full 12 months free. But they certainly  should have  been aware back in December  1996,  as 
the letter sent then (towards the end of the free period)  made  it clear  when premiums would 
start to be payable. So, strictly, it is probably too late for them to complain about that issue 
now.
In any event I dont  think  they have lost out because of anything The Co-op  did wrong about 
explaining the length of free cover.  The Co-op  was entitled to decide how much, if any, free 
cover to give. It seems it was actually only giving  free cover during the first year of a 
mortgage: rather than for the 12 months after PPI cover started. I suppose it is possible that 
Mr P and Ms M might  not have  bothered completing the application form to apply for the 
cover if they had known  exactly  how much  free cover they would get. But even seven 
months of free cover  was of some significant  value,  so I think they would probably still have 
gone ahead. And, although  they probably  didnt  get as much  free cover  as it seems they 
thought they were getting, they arent  actually any worse off than they would have been if 
theyd known from the start exactly when the free cover would run out. In that situation it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask The Co-op to give them  compensation for effectively 
getting less than 12 months  of free cover (as they have suggested).
Mr P and Ms M said The Co-op advised  them to take out PPI, but it says it didnt. I dont 
think it did, but even  if they were  given advice I think it would have been a suitable  
recommendation.  
-Ive looked at the policy  benefits,  cost of cover, and Mr P and Ms Ms circumstances 
at the time of the sale and I think that the policy was suitable. This policy only 
covered them for unemployment. Mr P would  have been eligible for redundancy pay 
if hed lost his job, but (because of her length of employment) Ms M would have  been 
entitled to little, if any. They did have  some savings. But the PPI would have paid out 
on top of any redundancy pay from work  and would have lasted longer  than any 
cover they had from work or savings.  
-The policy doesnt cover certain things. This could make it unsuitable for some 
people but Mr P and Ms M werent affected  by these terms in the policy.
-The policy was reasonably priced  compared to both similar policies available at the 
time and the monthly mortgage  repayment. And they could have cancelled  the PPI if 
it did become unaffordable.
-Mortgage PPI often is suitable for people like Mr P and Ms M with some benefits from 
work and some savings. A mortgage is a big commitment with substantial 
repayments to find each month, and the risk of losing  your home  if you cant  keep up 
with them. So PPI can provide  useful increased  security
I dont know exactly what The Co-op  told Mr P and Ms M about the PPI or what other 
information it gave them when they first agreed to take the free cover  (though they did have 
full policy details before they agreed to pay for it). But as Ive explained, I think  
Mr P and Ms M could  have found  the policy useful. Overall, I think  that its unlikely that 
clearer information would have put them off taking out the PPI initially  or agreeing to pay for 
it later. Thats because  I think its likely  they wouldve decided  the PPI provided  valuable 
cover at a reasonable cost. 
Ref: DRN37557593This means  that Mr P and Ms M arent worse off as a result of anything The Co-op might 
have done wrong.  So theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755759