K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The card and PPI were applied for online.  And the process  required  Mr B to tick a box 
and apply his digital  signature  to confirm he wanted the PPI separately to where he had 
to indicate he wanted the card. This also was shown on the credit agreement  which  was 
sent for him to check and sign. So I think RBS made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because : 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what theyve said about  being able to 
rely on his sick or redundancy pay and help from his family if he couldnt work. But these  
points dont change  my decision.  The PPI wouldve paid out for up to a year  leaving his 
sick or redundancy  pay available for other things. And family help wouldnt be guaranteed  
because it would depend on the familys circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN32108212what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  RBS should also pay back to Mr B any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr B the difference between 
what Mr B owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr B 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
* Businesses  have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3210821