K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the amount that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance,  for damage to a car that he 
returned when  he ended  a hire purchase agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Finance that he signed in March 2015.  He voluntarily terminated the agreement in August 
2018 and Mercedes-Benz Finance arranged for the car to be collected from him and 
inspected by a third party on its behalf. 
The inspection identified damage  to the car and Mercedes-Benz  Finance charged  him 
£1,201.81. It then reduced the charge by £86.60 to £1,115.21. Mr H complained to it about 
the charges and it offered  to reduce them  by 20% as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H didnt 
accept that offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the damage fell outside  of Mercedes-Benz Finances Vehicle Return Standards and the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association guidelines for fair wear and tear  and she 
didnt think that the charges were unreasonable or excessive.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that:
hes not happy that the tyres required replacing  as the car had passed an MOT test  
and he would have  purchased part worn  tyres  and had them  fitted if hed known that 
they would  not be acceptable  - but if it falls within the Vehicle Return Standards  then 
he has no choice but to pay for the tyres as specified; and
he disagrees that the seat-cover was ripped or torn as the material has worn  down 
and that shouldnt be treated as damage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car that was supplied  to Mr H was about two years  old and had been driven for 11,500 
miles. Mr H signed the hire purchase  agreement in March  2015 which  said: You will 
maintain the vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the attached  Vehicle  Return 
Standards which form part of your agreement. He voluntarily terminated the agreement and 
the car was inspected  in August 2018.  
The inspection report shows that the cars mileage was 43,525 and it identified  damage to all 
four wheels, three tyres,  two areas  of the bumper and the drivers seat-cover. It included 
photos of the damage and recommended charges totalling £1,210.81.  Mercedes-Benz 
Finance charged  him that amount but agreed  to reduce it by £86.06 because different 
charges had been recommended for replacing  each  of the tyres and it then offered to reduce 
the charges by 20% to £892.16 as a gesture of goodwill.
Ref: DRN32678732The Vehicle  Return  Standards say that any gouge, crack, cut, torn or plugged tyre side wall 
and scuff  chips and scratches exceeding 25mm on the wheels were  not acceptable. The 
photos in the inspection  report  show damage to three of the tyres and all four of the wheels 
and I dont consider  that the damage  would be acceptable under the Vehicle Return  
Standards or would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear. 
Mr H says that the car had passed an MOT test  but that shows  that the tyres were  
roadworthy  which is not the same as them being acceptable under Mercedes-Benz 
Finances Vehicle Return Standards. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mercedes-
Benz Finance to charge  him for replacing three tyres and refurbishing four wheels   and Im 
not persuaded that the charges that its made for that are excessive.
The photos  also show that the bumper  was damaged in two places. I dont consider that the 
bumper damage  would be acceptable  under the Vehicle Return Standards or would 
reasonably be considered  to be fair wear  and tear and I dont consider that the repair  charge 
is excessive.
The inspection report says that the drivers seat-cover is cracked and needs to be replaced. 
Mr H accepts that its worn but says that its not ripped or torn. I accept that the photo  
doesnt clearly show  that the seat-cover is ripped or torn  but it shows  significant damage to 
the seat-cover  and I dont consider that the damage would reasonably be considered to be 
fair wear and tear. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz  Finance to 
assess that the seat-cover needs to be replaced. It says that the charge for a replacement 
seat-cover is £452 and Im not persuaded that Mr H has provided  enough  evidence  to show 
that the charge is unreasonable or excessive.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has offered to reduce the total charge by 20% to £892.16. 
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to further reduce, or 
waive, the charges   or to take any other action in response to Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3267873