K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  about the sale of mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  
by HSBC UK Bank plc. Mr and Mrs H said it was implied that the policy ought to be added in 
order to get their mortgage approved.
background
Im sorry  its taken  a while for Mr and Mrs Hs complaint to reach an ombudsman. However, 
one of our adjudicators did write  to Mr and Mrs Hs representatives last year to say they 
thought the complaint wouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs representatives  say they didnt 
receive this. They have now disagreed with the adjudicator  and the case has been passed  to 
me to make an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding this 
case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs H may now genuinely believe the cover was mis-sold to them.  But 
I need to also take into account  the very real possibility that they just may not remember  
what happened so long ago.
I say this because  Ive seen their 2003 mortgage application form which had a section on it 
about MPPI.  I think its clear enough that the cover was optional  because the form gave a 
choice to either have   or not have  MPPI with the new mortgage. The yes box was 
ticked and Mr and Mrs H asked for a specific amount of cover.  
They then both signed the application form. 
I also note that the MPPI policy was sold at half price, for an initial period. I think this was 
quite obviously an incentive  and I think Mr and Mrs H would have been unlikely to view 
something that was discounted in this way, as being compulsory. Using  all this information 
therefore, I think HSBC  properly got Mr and Mrs Hs consent for the MPPI.
HSBC said this wasnt an advised  sale and the paperwork Ive seen tends to confirm this.
But HSBC  still had a duty to provide clear  enough  information so Mr and Mrs H could 
decide what they wanted to do.
I obviously cant say that HSBC did everything right. But Ive seen that the cost of the cover, 
who was covered and what  it was for  were  all disclosed to Mr and Mrs H during the 
application process. So I think they had enough on which to make  an informed decision.
This was a mortgage  secured against  Mr and Mrs Hs home.  The MPPI could have 
provided an income for up to 12 months  if theyd needed to claim and it would  have paid out 
in addition to any means they already had in place. I also think they were eligible  for cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  types of policy. I 
note Mr and Mrs H had jobs with some  sick pay. But this was quite moderate and it doesnt 
necessarily make the MPPI to be of no use.
Ref: DRN34885922For me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think it was more  likely that HSBC added MPPI 
without the proper consent or that there  were  other  serious flaws  in the sale.  I simply dont 
have that evidence and what I have seen  makes me think its much  more likely there was a 
discussion between the parties during which Mr and Mrs H agreed to buy the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and I dont  require 
HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3488592