K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complained that Gefion Insurance A/S unfairly cancelled  his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. 
Reference to Gefion includes its agent.
background
Mr M held a motor trade policy with Gefion. In October 2018 Gefion contacted  him and said 
someone driving a car on his policy had been stopped by the police and given  the details of 
his policy. Mr M said hed put the car on his policy as hed planned to buy it but the seller  
had increased  the price.  He said hed forgotten to remove  the car due to a family 
bereavement. He said he didnt know why the person driving the car had given his details.
On 17 October Gefion asked Mr M to provide proof  of ownership  for all of the other cars on 
the policy. It said he had seven days to provide it or his policy  might be cancelled. When    
Mr M didnt  respond Gefion sent him a letter  saying  his policy  would be cancelled  in seven 
days  31 October.
As Gefion  hadnt heard  from Mr M it phoned  him and left him a voicemail  on 29 October 
asking him to call. It also sent him an email  saying he needed  to reply by 31 November in 
order to avoid his policy being cancelled. Gefion said this was an error and the date should 
have been 31 October. 
Mr M called Gefion and said he understood he had until the 31 to send the information.  He 
said hed send it over straight  away. When Mr M didnt send the information  by 31 October 
Gefion tried to contact Mr M by email. When he didnt  reply  it cancelled his policy  on             
1 November.
Mr M complained to Gefion as hed understood he had until 31 November to provide the 
information. He said he was on holiday on 31 October so hadnt picked up the messages. He 
said the policy cancellation had caused  him problems in running his business. Gefion 
thought it had made a reasonable decision. It said Mr M confirmed in the call that he knew  
he had until 31 October and in that call it told him it would cancel his policy if it didnt provide 
the documents by that date. So Mr M asked us to look into things. He thought Gefion should 
reinstate his policy and compensate him.
Our investigator accepted Gefion had given  Mr M the wrong information in an email. But 
thought it had done enough overall  to let him know when  he needed to provide the 
information. So he thought it was fair for Gefion to cancel the policy. Mr M didnt  agree and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
Our investigator asked  Mr M to provide the proof of ownership Gefion had asked for. When      
Mr M didnt  provide this I let him know that I didnt think Gefions error in giving the wrong 
date ultimately made a difference to his policy being  cancelled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38163232The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms policy say Gefion can cancel Mr Ms policy with seven 
days notice. It gave  him the notice required by the policy but Ive also considered whether its 
error in telling Mr M the wrong date on one email led to him not providing the information in 
time. 
Given that Mr M had forgotten to remove the car from his policy when he didnt buy it I think 
it was reasonable  for Gefion to ask for more  information to show  he owned  the other cars on 
it. Gefion asked Mr M for information on 17 October  and he didnt provide it. I can see it also 
tried to call him but couldnt get hold of him. As it didnt have the information it needed by   
24 October Gefion told Mr M it would cancel his policy in seven days  time.
To try to prevent this happening Gefion called Mr M on 29 October and also sent him an 
email. While the email it sent on 24 October had the correct date on I can understand why 
Mr M might have  thought  he had another month  to provide the information. As he thought 
the second email  superseded  the previous one. Ive also listened to the call between  Mr M 
and Gefion on 29 October. In that call Mr M says he understands  he has until the 31 but he 
doesnt say what  month.  He does however say hell send the information over straight away 
but doesnt. I didnt hear Gefion anywhere  in that call tell Mr M it would cancel the policy if he 
didnt send the documents by 31 October. 
I think Gefion then did what  it could  to try to get hold of Mr M. It left him three  messages on 
his phone asking  him to get in touch  and also sent him an email. Mr M said he was on 
holiday on this date and didnt receive  them. I can understand why Mr M might not have 
picked up messages relating to his business  if he was on holiday. But Ive asked Mr M to 
provide something  other than his comments to show he was on holiday and he hasnt  sent 
us anything. So I havent seen enough  to persuade me he was on holiday. 
Ive also asked Mr M to provide the proof of ownership he would have sent to Gefion but he 
hasnt provided  anything.  So even  if I was to accept Gefion telling him the wrong date once 
led to him not sending  the documents on time, I dont think  that would have changed what 
happened. Thats because I havent  seen enough  to persuade  me Mr M would have sent 
Gefion the documents in needed and his policy would likely still have been cancelled.  I also 
think Mr M had a number of opportunities to provide Gefion with the documents  it had asked 
for by certain dates  and he didnt. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for but overall I dont think Gefions error 
caused his policy to be cancelled unfairly. So Im not going  to ask it to reinstate his policy or 
compensate him for what happened.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3816323