K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the length of time it took to recover  funds from his account with 
Pockit Limited.
background
Mr B had an account with Pockit.  In April 2018, he transferred funds into it, but Pockit  
instigated a review  into the source of the funds. This took a considerable time,  and when it 
finally released the funds, it appears  that some  was held in a holding account. So it wasnt 
until January 2019 that Mr B received any meaningful update  or refund.
Pockit agreed that it hadnt provided the level of service it would have expected.  It offered to 
pay Mr B £148.07 interest on the funds, plus £50 compensation. Mr B didnt agree with this.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He said that taking into 
consideration the length of time the issue remained outstanding before our
service got involved,  and the impact this has had on Mr B, he thought Pockit  should pay
£250 in compensation, as opposed to the £50 proposed. This is to be in addition to the
£148.07 interest which was offered.
Pockit disagreed,  as it thought this was disproportionate to the trouble and upset caused.
The complaints now been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Im satisfied that Mr B received significantly 
poor service. He was without the funds for a long time  and it was a lot of money.  
Whenever he chased up, he received no meaningful  updates. Further,  he had to chase yet 
again when funds were suspended in a holding  account.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that the trouble and upset was considerable and that £250  
compensation is fair to address this. This is in addition to the £148.07 interest, for the time 
Mr B should  have had the funds, but didnt.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint.  I require  
Pockit Limited to pay Mr B £250 compensation, plus £148.07  interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3195895