K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and its approved  repairer 
provided poor service  to him when  he made  a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr Rs car was damaged  in an accident on 30 November 2018. He says the garage RSA 
appointed didnt call as promised to arrange an appointment,  so he had to chase it for a 
date. He says the wrong parts were ordered so the first date for the repair  was missed. Mr R 
says the engineer who visited his home  on 21 December 2019 to carry out the repair  
couldnt do so, due to his inexperience. The car wasnt booked into the garage for a few 
weeks whilst  Mr R was abroad. The garage knew Mr R was away  but called him during that 
time to take the car in the next day. It was then booked in for 21 January  2019 instead.
Mr Rs mother  died whilst he was away. He asked the garage if he could leave the car with it 
and take a courtesy car the day before the pre-arranged booking. He said he had to drive a 
long distance  to make funeral plans urgently. The garage didnt record his request  to inform 
him as soon  as a courtesy car was free, so he wasnt  able to collect  it until 4.45pm.  
On 24 January 2019 Mr R made a special trip home to collect  his repaired car, only to be 
told that the garage couldnt start the work until the following week. He asked why it had 
been booked in if the garage was so busy.  He says a female  employee  who had been rude 
to him before  talked over him and was rude to him again. Mr R went  to the garage to 
complain to a manager. He says the manager  wasnt concerned about his account  of the 
poor service hed received to date. Mr R said he wanted the car repaired elsewhere.
Another garage did the work and returned the car to Mr R at the end of February 2019. Mr R 
complained to RSA about the first garage  and its own service. He wasnt  happy with the 
£200 compensation it offered him, so one of out investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. 
The investigator concluded that RSA should offer Mr R a further £300 compensation. He 
noted the delay in repairing the car, the poor communication and the rudeness of staff at the 
garage, plus the fact that Mr R had to chase it for updates. 
RSA didnt agree with the investigators  proposal, nor did Mr R. He said the starting point for 
compensation should be £1,000. He said he wanted to be compensated for his time,  effort  
and fuel costs. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed  to me for review.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial inspection of the car on 10 December  2018 was done  promptly and the parts  were  
ordered that day. The notes on RSAs file show that the parts supplier sent the wrong parts 
to the garage, so the planned repair three days later had to be cancelled.  I think  that was 
outside the garages control. RSAs notes  show that the next date offered for the repairs  was 
in late December 2018. It accepts that the engineer sent to do the work  couldnt remove  the 
cars bumper, so Mr R faced more disappointment.  
Mr R was then away for over three weeks. It looks as though the garage  had the capacity to 
repair the car on or around 7 January  2019, as Mr R was called whilst  abroad  and asked to 
Ref: DRN33926832bring it in that day. In my view, given the failed attempts  to repair  the car in December 2018, 
Mr R could reasonably  have expected the garage  to take the car before he went abroad. The 
work could  have been done in his absence. Had that happened,  the car would  have been  
repaired in a reasonable time, so I think its unlikely  Mr R would have complained.  
RSAs notes suggest that Mr R was rude to a garage employee when one of them rang him 
on 24 January 2019. Mr R had been using a small courtesy car for several days. He had just 
made the long journey home in it to collect his car, so I can see why he was very frustrated 
to be told the repairs  hadnt even been started. He says the employee  was rude to him, and 
he accepts that he got angry as a result. Mr R says the garage had given him that date to 
collect the car, and that if it hadnt  done  so he wouldnt have made the trip.  
Theres nothing in the notes to suggest  that the garage told Mr R to collect  his car that day. 
In fact the notes  suggest that it was ready  to start the repairs, but that Mr R cancelled  the 
job. We asked RSA to check with the garage about why it hadnt taken Mr Rs car in for 
repair whilst he was abroad. We also asked it to put to the garage Mr Rs assertion  that it  
had told him his car would  be ready  by 24 January 2019. RSA didnt respond to those 
queries. Nor was it able to provide a call recording we asked for of the conversation between 
Mr R and the garages general  manager. 
RSA provided seven calls we hadnt  asked  for. One of them shows  that Mr R spoke to an 
advisor to set out what his complaint was before being put through  to the garages general  
manager. Mr R told the advisor what had happened.  He became quite angry whilst 
recounting it. I think that was triggered  largely by having to recall  and describe  the poor 
attitude of the garages staff. We dont have  any independent evidence on that issue, but I 
think Mr Rs account sounded credible.  
During the call, Mr R said hed been told the repair would only take three hours.  He said he 
returned to collect  the car after three  days because  he thought  it should  be done by then. 
From what  he said, it doesnt seem he was told by the garage  that the car would be ready  on 
that date. So I dont think it would be reasonable to require RSA to refund the cost of his fuel.  
Mr R took his car back that day. He said he wanted  a different garage to repair  it. There was 
a delay of around  a month until the car was booked in with another  repairer. The delay 
seems to have stemmed partly from confusion between the garage and RSA about  who was 
dealing with the issues Mr R had raised.  There was also confusion about whether the car 
could be dealt with by the original repairer  (or one of its branches) or not. I think  RSA was 
responsible for this delay. And given the events from the start of December  2018  onwards, 
any delay was likely to have more impact on Mr R than it otherwise would have done. 
RSA accepted that the service Mr R got from it and from the garage wasnt  of the expected  
high standard.  It said there was poor communication with Mr R, and that the multiple issues  
with the garage  should have been dealt  with by RSA sooner. It also accepted that hed been 
faced with a long delay in getting his car repaired.  
Given the number  of issues and the length of time taken to sort out the repair, I dont think 
the £200 compensation RSA offered Mr R was enough. The garages service was 
particularly poor, in my opinion, over a long period. No attempt seems  to have been made by 
it to make up for its initial  poor service. And RSA has acknowledged that it was slow to 
respond to Mr Rs concerns.
Ref: DRN33926833Our investigator proposed that RSA should  pay Mr R a further £300, making £500 in total. 
We regard an award  of that level to be substantial. I would have said more compensation 
should be paid had Mr R been without his car for a long period. But as it wasnt badly 
damaged, he only lost the use of it for a few days. Taking everything into account, I think 
£500 is adequate compensation for the amount of distress and inconvenience he faced. 
my final decision
Mt final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to pay Mr R £500 compensation  in total for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3392683