K820x#14complaint
Mr D on behalf of business P has complained  that Aviva Insurance  Limited caused delays 
when it dealt with a claim he made under  his commercial  motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ds van was damaged  in an incident  in April 2018. He made a claim  to his insurer, Aviva.  
In November 2018 Mr D complained about the length of time and the standard of repairs 
carried out by Avivas approved repairer.  
Aviva said that it wasnt responsible for all of the delays as unfortunately parts took longer 
than expected to arrive.  But it agreed the approved  repairer had made mistakes too. So 
Aviva paid Mr D £400 for the inconvenience  caused  as he had to go back  and forth to the 
repairer over a period of eight  months.  And it reimbursed him £156 in hire vehicle costs. 
Mr D brought his complaint to us because  he doesnt believe  the compensation Aviva  has 
paid is enough.  He wants Aviva to reimburse him for half of his losses.  He said he lost out on 
the opportunity  to take on new work for 10.5 days as he had to rearrange  existing  jobs due 
to Avivas delay repairing  his vehicle. 
Our investigator didnt  think we could reasonably consider potential loss of earnings as 
something Aviva should reimburse Mr D for. Instead, she considered the compensation 
Aviva had paid Mr D for the overall  inconvenience  and thought  this was fair. 
Mr D didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said that the delays caused by the approved repairer were  entirely  avoidable. He feels  
that because hes self employed,  this works  against him. Mr D feels he hasnt been fairly 
compensated for the work  he would have otherwise taken on for 10.5 days. 
Theres no dispute that Aviva is responsible for avoidable delay and poor service  provided 
by its approved repairer. However, I think the compensation it paid Mr D is overall 
reasonable. Inevitably dealing with any claim will take up some of our own time and cause a 
degree of inconvenience. The inconvenience caused to Mr D was over and above this. But I 
think Aviva  has done enough  to put things right. And so this means I dont intend to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN35974122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D on behalf  of 
business P to accept  or reject  my decision before 25 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3597412