K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 2003 Mrs C took out a credit  card with BOS.  At the same time she was 
sold a regular premium  PPI policy to cover  her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought Mrs C had made it 
clear in the application she wanted PPI and the policy wouldve suited  her needs.
Mrs C disagreed. She says she didnt  need the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mrs C was sold the PPI during a meeting when she applied for her credit  card.  BOS  needed 
to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs C says this wasnt  done. Mrs C hasnt  given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make her think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents 
from the time show.
Ive looked at the original credit card application and agreement form sent to us by BOS  and 
can see within section 5 Product details it says to mark the relevant boxes if credit card 
repayments cover or card protection is wanted. I think  this couldve been worded better and 
set out more clearly  but I think it presents the PPI as optional. 
And from what we understand about BOSs  sales process there wouldve been a discussion 
about PPI and then the application form wouldve been completed and printed out for 
reviewing and signing. I can see that an X has been pre-populated in the Credit Card  
Repayment Cover box indicating that Mrs C wanted to take out the PPI and Mrs C has 
signed and dated the form just to the right of this. I think its likely Mrs C wouldve seen that 
the PPI box was selected and if she hadnt agreed to take it I think she wouldve raised this 
with the sales  advisor.  
So I think Mrs C wouldve  understood  the PPI was optional  and it was selected on the credit  
card application  because she agreed  to take it. And based on what  Mrs C has told us I cant 
say its likely BOS did do things to make her think the PPI wasnt  optional.
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that Mrs C could make an informed  
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable  to her needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN31343772I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  they shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs C for the following  reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mrs C says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and 
had savings she could  use to make her credit card payments  if she couldnt work or 
lost her job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered her credit 
card payments for potentially longer - up to 12 months - if she couldnt  work due to 
accident or sickness or lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful 
benefit to Mrs C in her circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time and 
if she decided she no longer wanted  the policy she couldve cancelled  it. 
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mrs C information in a way which  was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Mrs C has told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy by BOS.   
This means  Mrs C isnt worse  off as a result  of any wrong doing  by BOS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3134377