K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that ReAssure Limited declined his claim and says the policy  was mis-sold.
background
Mr D has an accident protection policy with ReAssure. The policy  is designed to pay out 
when the policy holder  has been involved in an accident, subject to relevant  terms and 
conditions. 
Mr D was involved in an accident in November 2017 which  resulted in a five night hospital  
stay. Mr D said he claimed  for the time he spent  in hospital as his policy  offers 
hospitalisation benefit which  is designed  to pay out in circumstances  such as these. Hes 
unhappy that ReAssure declined his claim and would like it to return  the premiums he paid,  
with interest and compensation. 
ReAssure said it declined  the claim because the accident and the place  Mr D was 
hospitalised was outside the United Kingdom  and was therefore not covered by the policy.  
Mr D didnt agree with this and subsequently  said the policy  was mis-sold as he was led to 
believe he had cover within Europe.  
Our investigator thought ReAssure had declined  the claim fairly because  it does  not offer 
cover outside of the UK. He also found no evidence to suggest  the policy was mis-sold on 
that basis as the paperwork  Mr D received at the time of sale  was  clear on the 
hospitalisation benefits coverage . 
Mr D didnt agree, in summary he said:
This isnt the first time hes brought an unsuccessful claim to ReAssure which has led 
him to question the effectiveness of the policy;
The policy was sold on the basis  it would provide cover within Europe and that 
ReAssure must  have changed the terms without him being made aware.  
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking 
ReAssure to cover Mr Ds claim or return the premiums he paid. My reasons for this are 
similar to those already  explained by our investigator, but in short, Im not persuaded that 
ReAssure has made  an error  in declining the claim or that it has mis-sold the policy.  Ill 
explain why.
Mr D was injured  in a car accident in Poland. He was admitted to hospital in Poland 
and received treatment there too. The policy Mr D has offers a hospitalisation benefit  
 which  effectively means itll pay the policy  holder  for time spent in hospital. But the 
issue here is that it only applied to treatment within  a UK hospital. And as Mr D was 
hospitalised in Poland he does not meet the policy terms. Ive checked the terms of 
his policy  and Im satisfied this is clear;
Ref: DRN39186372hospitalisation benefit is only payable  if the hospital is in the United Kingdom
There are also other terms that he would  need  to satisfy in order to make  a 
successful claim, including the nature  of injury. But whats key here is that the 
accident didnt  happen in the UK and neither did his treatment  so I dont think  
ReAssure has declined  his claim unfairly. I know Mr D has made  other arguments 
about other claims hes made on this policy, but thats not what Im considering as 
part of this case. And so it would not be appropriate for me to make a finding  on 
these. 
ReAssure also sold Mr D this policy and so Ive considered this element of his 
complaint too. This was an advised sale that took place in 2010.  Mr D is certain the 
policy was sold on the basis  it would provide cover within  Europe. But Ive not seen 
this anywhere within  the policy terms, or the notes from the sale itself.  Its clear that 
cover is for UK hospital visits as described  above. Further, Mr D has been  unable to 
produce any evidence  to persuade me the adviser had explained  the benefits of 
cover were Europe  wide. He explained  the providers name had changed at some 
point and I can see that, but I cant see the scope of the policy reduced  because of it. 
Im also satisfied Mr D was sent all necessary and key information  prior to agreeing 
to the policy  terms. He was asked to ensure he read and understood the cover  on 
offer, including the policy  terms and key facts  which also made clear the scope of 
cover was within the UK only. He was given 30 days cooling period in which  he 
could change his mind and cancel the policy without penalty. And so I dont agree the 
policy was mis-sold because he was given all necessary  information  in a clear 
medium from the outset. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3918637