K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs H say National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think NatWest mis-sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs H for the following 
reasons:
I couldnt safely conclude that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that they 
werent given a choice to take it.
I didnt think that NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. So it didnt have 
to check if the PPI was suitable  for them but it did need  to give them  enough 
information about the PPI so they could decide for themselves if they wanted to buy 
the cover. I thought it was possible that the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs H 
about the PPI might  not have been  as clear as it should have. But I didnt think  
clearer information wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs H from buying the PPI.
NatWest responded  to my provisional decision, and said it doesnt  have anything else itd 
like me to consider.
Mr and Mrs H responded  to the provisional  decision with the following additional  main  points:
The policy was not explained to them because it only provided cover for Mr H and not 
Mrs H.
Their recollections of events regarding the sale of the mortgage (and PPI) were 
factual and unequivocal.
The PPI was presented to them  as a mandatory requirement and they would have  
rejected it had they been told it was not a mandatory requirement. 
Mr Hs sister would have helped them make repayments to the mortgage  if they 
werent able to
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im deciding  not to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. And Ill cover  off the main points they has raised below.
I understand from the information provided by Mr and Mrs H that Mrs H was not working. In 
these circumstances  I wouldnt expect  the policy to provide  cover  for Mrs H because it 
seems likely she wouldnt have been eligible  for the policy.  So I dont think  the policy not 
covering Mrs H makes a difference to my decision.  
Ref: DRN31726752Mr and Mrs H say they werent given a choice in taking PPI. NatWest say it would have 
made it clear  the PPI was optional and it would  have got their consent before adding the 
cover. Where theres  a dispute about  what happened, I have to base my decision on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened   taking  into account all the evidence  thats  available.
Given how long ago thats now passed  since the sale, theres very limited information  
available for me to know how the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs H. Ive thought very 
carefully about what Mr and Mrs H have said about  the sale, but as mentioned  in my 
provisional decision, its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with Mr and Mrs H. In 
order for me to uphold  this Id have to think that Mr and Mrs Hs account was more likely 
than that of NatWest.  But as these events happened  so long ago and as theres  no 
documentary evidence  to support either partys position, I have  to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs Hs account is only as likely not more likely. So on balance  I cannot safely  conclude  that 
the policy wasnt presented as optional or that they werent given  a choice to take PPI.
Mr and Mrs H say they could have relied on the help of Mr Hs sister. Whilst I can appreciate  
Mr Hs sister  would have wanted to help - individual circumstances  can also change   and 
there was no guarantee at the time of sale that she may have always  been in a position to 
help them when  needed,  and the PPI would have helped reduce any potential need  to rely 
on such help from Mr Hs sister. So I still think they could have found  the policy useful if 
something were to go wrong.
And so it follows that I cant agree that this PPI policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 1996. Mr 
and Mrs H say National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage in 1996.  Even though this was a joint mortgage, 
only Mr H was covered by the policy  for accident, sickness  and unemployment. They  paid a monthly 
Ref: DRN31726753amount for the cover.  If he had made a successful claim, the policy would have paid out the 
repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
I currently think the policy  wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H and 
Ill explain the reasons why Ive currently reached this decision.
Id like to begin by saying that I dont  doubt  Mr and Mrs Hs recollection of events are genuinely  held. 
Nevertheless, these events  were a long time ago and although weve  got some of the documents  from 
the sale,  I think others will have  been lost. 
So in coming to a decision,  Ive thought about everything both parties  have said about the sale.  Given  
the disputed nature of the case, my decision is based on the balance of probabilities i.e. whats more  
likely to have happened.
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the policy was optional and they had to agree to 
take it. Mr and Mrs H have told us the PPI wasnt explained to them and they were told the policy was a 
pre-requisite. As mentioned, neither NatWest nor Mr and Mrs H have provided  much of the paperwork 
from that time,  which isnt surprising considering this was more than 22 years ago. So its difficult  to 
know how the policy was positioned with Mr and Mrs H. In order for me to uphold this Id have to think  
that Mr and Mrs Hs account  was more likely than that of NatWest.  But as these events happened so 
long ago and as theres no documentary evidence to support either partys position, I have to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs Hs account is only as likely not more  likely. So on balance I cannot  safely  
conclude that the policy wasnt presented  as optional  or that they werent given  a choice to take PPI.
Mr and Mrs H say that NatWest advised them  to take the PPI but NatWest has said it wouldnt  have 
advised them.  Businesses that recommended  PPI as part of an advised sale had an additional 
responsibility; to ensure  it was right for the consumers particular circumstances. Non-advised sales 
needed only to ensure  the information  provided was clear  enough  for the consumers  themselves to 
make a decision  about  whether or not they wanted PPI.
Ive looked at the paperwork  and notes NatWest sent to me regarding this sale.  From  reading through 
these - and also using  what  I know about how NatWest  generally sold mortgages at the time - I dont 
think NatWest  provided an advised sale. But I dont think the type of sale matters much to this case, 
because I think the policy was suitable anyway.
This is because I think Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the exclusions we 
sometimes see in these types  of policy. The cost of the policy seems affordable and priced  similarly to 
cover I know  was marketed  at around that time.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  and I think their mortgage wouldve been an 
important and a relatively long-term financial commitment for them  and importantly, one which was 
secured against their home. So I think the consequences  of them not being able to keep up payments 
if their income  had suddenly dropped, could have been serious. 
Mr and Mrs H say Mr H would have got 3 months full sick pay from his employer if he was off work 
through and accident or sickness and they said he could have relied on his father  or sister for 
Ref: DRN31726754support had they needed  to. But peoples  circumstances  can change  and they may not have been in 
a position to help when needed and it was ultimately  Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility to make the re-
payments.
The PPI on the other hand, was there to help in times of financial  uncertainty and to provide support  
in the event of Mr H suffering a significant reduction in income, such  as not being able to work  or 
losing his job. It wouldve paid a monthly benefit of up to £200  for up to 12 months in the event  of a 
successful claim  and this wouldve been in addition to any other means Mr and Mrs H already had in 
place. So I think these things  show the PPI was of use in their situation. 
NatWest also needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I cant  say that 
NatWest did everything right or that it told Mr and Mrs H everything it should  have. But I think  Mr and 
Mrs H wouldve been sent something after the sale explaining what and who the policy covered. I 
can also see on their Mortgage Offer that the PPI monthly premiums  were set out clearly. So I think 
Mr and Mrs H could see and assess the value of what theyd signed  up to.
So even if NatWest didnt  give them all the information they needed I dont  think more, or better,  
information wouldve made a difference to their decision  to buy it. And I dont think Mr and Mrs H lost 
out as a result of anything NatWest mightve  done wrong. 
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether NatWest  
treated them unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what  they paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on what  weve 
seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about  the commission  so I dont think NatWest 
treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back  any of the commission 
they paid for the PPI. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  mentioned  above, Im currently not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
But Ill look at any further evidence  either party wishes  me to consider  if I receive  it before 
1 March 2019  when Ill make  my final decision.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3172675