K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold him an interest only buy to let 
(BTL) mortgage in 2006.
background
Mr D took out an interest only BTL mortgage  with BOS in 2006 with a term of twelve  years. 
He says at that point  he expressed concern about the term of the mortgage, having 
requested a 25 year term, but he says BOS told him that most buy to let mortgages didnt 
run the full term and that hed be able to extend the mortgage if it did reach the end of the 
term. So he went ahead with the agreement.
In 2018 Mr D spoke  to BOS about extending the term of his mortgage.  However,  BOS  said 
that it wouldnt extend the term of the mortgage unless it was converted  to a repayment 
mortgage. Alternatively, it offered to give Mr D time to allow  him to sell the property  or help 
him source  a lifetime mortgage. 
Mr D wasnt happy that BOS wouldnt extend the mortgage on the same terms as his original 
agreement, so he raised a complaint with it.
BOS said that regardless  of any conversation it had with Mr D in 2006   which it couldnt find 
record of - he had agreed to the terms and conditions of his mortgage,  which  it thought 
clearly showed that the term was 12 years. It invited Mr D to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment to determine  whether  he met the required criteria to switch to a 
repayment mortgage and extend  the term. It also said that Mr D could seek independent 
financial advice and said it would give Mr D an additional 18 months to make  alternative 
arrangements.
Mr D raised a complaint  with our service. He didnt think that BOS  had treated him fairly and 
that the options itd given him were not reasonable given his circumstances.  He explained 
that he was now a pensioner so he thought itd be difficult to secure a new mortgage, and 
the mortgaged  property had a tenant  whod been  there for over ten years who he didnt think 
it fair to make leave.  Mr D also said that he didnt think that BOS had made sure he had a 
repayment strategy for his mortgage when  it was sold, as it was required to.
Mr D also told us that the mortgaged property is on land behind  a family members  house 
and the only access  to it was through her property. He believed  this would make it very 
difficult for him to sell it or to find a mortgage elsewhere. He gave us detailed information  
about the situation and what  would be necessary to give the property its own private access. 
He also said that hed asked BOS about  taking further borrowing against his property  
through it or another lender - to finance  the necessary  works  but BOS  had declined this. He 
also said BOS had taken  back  its offer to allow him an additional 18 months at the end of his 
term. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said that Mr Ds mortgage was taken on 
a non-advised  basis  and at the time it was taken BOS wasnt  required to make sure he had a 
plan to repay the mortgage when it ended. He also said that Mr D had told him that his 
intention had always been to sell the property  to repay the mortgage, which he said was a 
reasonable strategy for a BTL mortgage. He said that even if BOS  had asked  Mr D about 
this and documented his intended  repayment  strategy on his loan agreement, hed likely be 
in the same position he now finds  himself.  
Ref: DRN39334972The investigator accepted that Mr D had asked BOS for a 25 year term on his mortgage and 
that he had questioned BOS when it offered him a 12 year term. He also noted that there 
was a record of a call between Mr D and BOS at this stage but the corresponding call wasnt  
available. He accepted that Mr D had written to his solicitor reiterating the conversation he 
had about extending the term.  Overall he didnt dispute that BOS  told Mr D that the term 
could be extended,  but said that both industry guidance  and BOSs  policies had changed  in 
the time since Mr Ds mortgage  was agreed, so if BOS had told Mr D that his term could be 
extended in 2006, it shouldnt be held to this now if his circumstances do not meet BOSs 
current required criteria. 
Our investigator said that BOS had told him it was still prepared to give Mr D 18 months to 
explore the options available to him, which he thought was fair in the circumstances. He also 
said that BOS had told him that it had not considered an application  for further  borrowing 
against the property, so Mr D was free to decide  whether or not to attempt to do this, and if 
he was unhappy  with BOSs response  he could raise this as a new complaint.
Mr D didnt agree. He maintained that he was assured his mortgage term could be extended 
when it had finished. He said that he believed BOS had breached  its own policy  and had not 
met industry  requirements, specifically those set out in the Mortgages and Home  Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). Mr D maintained that he didnt  think  that BOS 
had made  sure he had a repayment strategy  for his mortgage when it was sold, as it was 
required to. Our investigator disagreed.
Mr D recently  got in touch  with us to raise a further issue. He said that he had explored  the 
possibility of purchasing the necessary land and making the required boundary adjustments 
to give the mortgaged property its own access, before selling it. He said that he applied  for 
this borrowing with BOS  but it was declined,  and other lenders had also expressed hesitancy 
at lending to him. He believed that this was due to BOS reporting that his mortgage had 
reached the end of its term with Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). He didnt  think  this was 
fair. 
The case  was passed to me to decide what should  happen. I issued a provisional decision 
on it. In summary, I said;
I have sympathy for the position Mr D now finds himself in. Particularly given the challenge 
he faces in selling, mortgaging or securing further borrowing against a property which  
doesnt seem to have  its own access. But this doesnt mean that the complaint  should be 
upheld.
Mr D has made a number of detailed submissions about everything he thinks BOS  has done 
wrong. Ive read and considered everything  hes given us. But I dont intend to answer every 
point hes made because I dont think that will be necessary in order to reach a fair outcome. 
Rather, my decision will focus on what I consider to be relevant to the heart of Mr Ds 
complaint. In summary, that is whether BOS mis-sold his mortgage  and whether  it is treating 
him fairly now his mortgage has come to an end.
Firstly, Ill address whether or not I think Mr Ds mortgage was mis-sold  on the basis   as he 
asserts - that it didnt ensure he had a repayment vehicle to repay the mortgage at the end of 
the term. 
Ref: DRN39334973Ive reviewed Mr Ds mortgage agreement.  Having  done so, like our investigator, I found that 
agreement to be quite  clear that BOS was not giving Mr D mortgage advice, and it was up to 
him whether to accept the mortgage  or not. I also found that the agreement clearly explained 
that the repayment method was interest-only,  meaning that the capital balance would be 
payable when the mortgage  ended. The agreement noted that Mr D had not told BOS what 
repayment vehicle  he intended to use to pay off the remaining  balance  at the end of the 
term.
Mr D says that BOS should  have  ensured  that he had a suitable repayment vehicle in place 
to repay  the capital  when his mortgage ended.  However, at the time BOS was only required 
to give Mr D information about his mortgage  that was clear and not misleading. 
Mr Ds mortgage agreement highlighted the importance of Mr D arranging  a separate  
savings plan to pay off the mortgage at the end of the term. I think its fair to say that is clear  
and not misleading,  so Im therefore  satisfied  that BOS met its obligations at the time.  Its 
also important to point  out that as a BTL mortgage,  this was unregulated and so the specific 
regulations Mr D has mentioned didnt  apply. And, as a BTL mortgage, this was essentially a 
business proposition  Mr D was renting  the property out for profit   and so there was an 
onus on Mr D to understand what he was taking  on.
Additionally, as our investigator explained,  Mr D says that his intention  was to repay  the 
mortgage by selling  his property. I agree that had BOS asked Mr D about  a repayment 
strategy, and hed told it of his intention, it likely wouldve found his proposal  acceptable  and 
gone ahead  with the mortgage. Sale of the property  at the end of the term is a common 
strategy for BTL mortgages, most of which are interest only.  And I dont think  it wouldve 
done anything  wrong had it done  this. As a result, I agree with our investigator that Mr D 
always wouldve likely found himself in this situation.
Mr D has also mentioned  that BOS had a responsibility to ensure that the mortgage was 
affordable for him. And I accept that Mr Ds ability to repay  the mortgage was something 
BOS should fairly have  taken into account.  Mr Ds only mentioned this in the context  of 
whether or not BOS  should have made sure he had a repayment  vehicle  in place, and 
neither Mr D nor BOS has suggested  that hes struggled to meet  the monthly payments.  
However, as above, I think that BOS gave Mr D clear information at the outset that he 
needed to have a plan in place to repay the capital balance at the end of the term. If thats  
something Mr D hasnt  done, I dont think BOS  should be held responsible for that. 
Ive also carefully considered what Mr D has said about what  he was told about the 
possibility of extending his mortgage  term at the point he agreed to the mortgage in 2006. 
Like our investigator,  I think that BOS may well have told Mr D that it could be able to extend 
his mortgage on the same terms when it ended. Having  said this, I find it unlikely that Mr D 
would have been given any guarantee that would be the case, given that BOS could have 
alternatively just granted Mr D the 25 year term he originally asked for. And, significantly,  I 
havent seen any evidence that a guarantee was given. So I dont think that BOS should  be 
required to extend  Mr Ds mortgage for an additional 12 years as hes asked. 
Ref: DRN39334974Additionally, BOS is entitled to decide on what terms  if at all  it will lend to its customers. 
From what  its said in its submission to our service,  I think  that BOS  accepts its possible 
Mr D was told his mortgage could just be renewed when it reached the end of its term. 
However, its also said that at the time its term extension process did not involve a full review 
of the mortgage,  but it has since made  changes  to its policy,  so that is now required. BOS is 
entitled to make changes  such as this to its lending policies, as long as it treats  its customers 
fairly. Additionally, even  if I accept that Mr D was told his mortgage could simply be renewed 
at the end of its term, I dont think BOS could have reasonably  foreseen its change in policy.  
BOS has provided its policy for when  an interest only mortgage  term ends, and Im satisfied 
it has followed it. 
I dont think that Mr D has been  treated unfairly  as a result, because Ive explained that the 
documentation is clear  that the term is 12 years, and no guarantee of an extension  was 
given. Mr Ds intention was always to sell the property, but now that he comes  to do so he 
finds that to be difficult  to do. That would  be the case however long the term was, unless 
Mr D was able to fund the necessary changes to improve access  to the property. So while 
BOSs decision may have put Mr D in this position now,  its a position he would  always  have 
found himself in at some  point.
As Ive explained above, I accept that Mr D now finds himself in a somewhat challenging 
position, given  the particular circumstances  of his property. And Id expect BOS  to help Mr D 
to try and find a solution now that his mortgage term has ended.  From what Ive seen, BOS 
has outlined a number  of options available to Mr D as well as inviting him to seek  
independent advice about what to do. It also gave Mr D 18 months after the mortgage term 
ended to find a solution. And it told our service at the end of that 18 months it would 
reassess Mr Ds position if he had not found a solution. All things considered,  Im satisfied 
that BOS has treated  Mr D fairly after his mortgage  term ended,  and Id encourage him to 
engage with BOS about the options available  to him moving  forward.
Lastly, Mr D has recently said that he doesnt  think it is fair that BOS has reflected that his 
mortgage account has reached  the end of its term with CRAs. However, BOS  has an 
obligation to record  accurate information with CRAs, and given that Mr Ds mortgage has 
reached the end of its term, I dont think it would be inaccurate or unfair to report that 
information with CRAs.  
Overall, for the reasons  explained above,  Im satisfied that Mr Ds mortgage  with BOS was 
not mis-sold and it has subsequently treated him fairly now that the mortgage has reached 
the end of its term. Im also satisfied  that BOS treated  Mr D fairly by giving  him 18 months 
after his mortgage  term ended to find a solution. As above, its now for Mr D to either liaise  
with BOS further regarding his options,  or alternatively seek  independent financial advice.
BOS didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr D did. He disagreed with my 
provisional conclusions  and maintained that his BLT mortgage had been mis-sold. He said 
that he had given us evidence that he had been persuaded to accept  a term which  he did 
not request.  He said that BOS had not formally presented him with an offer to give him time 
to prepare the property  before selling  it.
Mr D also said that BOS  had requested that we didnt disclose specific  information to him, so 
hes reserving his right to retain information,  rather than provide it in support of his case.
Ref: DRN39334975my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision, Ill explain why.
Mr D hasnt provided any new evidence  which I think is material  to my decision. As such, I 
find no reason to depart from the conclusion  I reached in my provisional decision.  I will 
however address the further  points hes made.  
When Mr D brought this complaint to us, he told us that BOS had offered him 18 months 
after his mortgage  term had ended to prepare his property for sale and market it. He 
subsequently told our investigator that BOS had rescinded this offer,  but our investigator  
clarified that it was still available,  and let Mr D know. I dont think this point is material  to my 
assessment about  whether BOS mis-sold Mr Ds mortgage, but in any case, I dont think  it 
matters that this was or was not communicated to Mr D formally as I think the situation  ought 
to have been clear  to Mr D.
Additionally, Mr D has said that BOS asked  us not to disclose certain  evidence  to him. He 
hasnt referred to any specific evidence, so I cant  say for sure whether or not this was the 
case. Generally  speaking  though, there are certain  documents which are commercially 
sensitive. I can only assume  that Mr D has referred to evidence that is either  not available,  or 
commercially sensitive.  So Im not satisfied  that BOS has done anything  wrong in this 
respect, or that Mr D has been treated unfairly.
Additionally, my role is to make a decision on Mr Ds complaint based on the evidence Ive 
been presented.  I think both BOS and Mr D have had sufficient opportunity  to give us the 
evidence theyd like to be considered. If Mr D has evidence that he thinks  may support his 
complaint, but he doesnt want to provide it, thats  his decision to make. 
In conclusion, as Ive not been persuaded to change my position on Mr Ds complaint,  its 
still my view that his mortgage  was not mis-sold and that BOS  has subsequently treated him 
fairly now that that his mortgage term has ended. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3933497