K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limiteds  decision  to decline his 
claim and cancel his policy.
background
Mr C had an income protection policy with LV that was arranged through a broker in October 
2016. Mr C became unwell in March 2017 and was unable  to work and so made a claim 
under the policy.  
LV declined his claim because it discovered hed not told it the full extent of his medical 
history, particularly around  his mental health and problems with his shoulder, arm and hand. 
It also discovered Mr C had been  involved in a road traffic accident a few months prior to 
taking out the policy  which had led him to seek medical advice. LV said had Mr C shared this 
with it at the time, it would  not have  offered him a policy.  And so, it cancelled  his policy and 
returned the premiums  hed paid. 
Mr C didnt accept this. He said LV had misled him to thinking it would complete a full review 
of his medical records prior to offering the policy. He also said hed shared information with 
his broker that wasnt  passed on to the insurer and that the insurer didnt return his call when 
itd promised. Mr C would  like LV to reinstate his policy and pay his claim. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said LV asked him clear questions  about 
his health and that Mr C hadnt answered  them correctly. He also acknowledged  that LV had 
paid him £75 compensation for the poor service and that this was fair. The investigator 
considered the brokers  actions  under a separate complaint. Mr C still didnt agree with these 
findings. He said;
He took reasonable care to answer  LVs questions carefully and had requested  it to 
complete a full check into his medical records  which  didnt happen and;
He told LV about his depression and so doesnt understand why its now decided this 
is a problem.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Cs complaint. I acknowledge Mr Cs arguments about his broker  not sharing relevant 
information about his health, but I wont address them here  Ill be considering  that aspect 
of his complaint  separately.  Overall,  I still think its reasonable for LV to decline his claim. Ill 
explain why.
LV, like all insurers, must not reject  a claim unfairly  or avoid paying a claim.  These  are the 
rules under the Insurance  Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). And so, Ive carefully 
considered LVs decision here and the reason I think its not done so is because  it wasnt  
told the full extent of Mr Cs medical history.  
In October, when  the policy was taken  out, LV asked Mr C a number of health-related 
questions. This was so it could fairly understand the risk Mr C posed of making a claim in the 
Ref: DRN36923162future and then decide whether it wanted to accept it and offer him cover.  Insurers  are 
entitled to do this. Should an insurer  decide the risk is too great, it may add exclusions to the 
policy for certain conditions, or it may decide  not to offer cover altogether. 
The issue  here though is that Mr C didnt  tell it the information it needed to know in order  to 
make that choice. Instead, this came to light when  hed made  a claim and LV began 
investigating his medical background. The questions Mr C was asked were;
In the last 5 years have  you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or not 
you have seen your doctor  or required treatment.)
Mental Health issue  including depression, anxiety, stress, nervous breakdown, insomnia or
eating disorder.  
It also wanted to know  whether  hed had more than one episode. Mr C said hed suffered 
with depression but that it was ten years ago. LV asked Mr C to explain more  about this 
during a phone  call he had with it in December 2016. But Mr C was unable to give much 
more information.  In summary, he explained  the passage  of time was so great that he 
couldnt recall the specific  circumstances around this, nor whether he was treated by a 
psychiatrist, psychologist or counsellor.
Mr C referred  LV to his medical  records and gave it permission  to obtain them to check. LV 
initially said this was something it could do, which is where Mr C made  arguments about  
being misled as he was under the impression this would happen. But having listened  to 
those conversations, Im satisfied LV gave further  clarity on this point and said it would only 
do this if it felt this was necessary. I should  also say that LV offered  Mr C £75 compensation 
for any confusion on that point which  I thought  was fair. 
 LV was happy  to move  forward  without this because Mr C had told it his depressive  episode 
was 10 years ago. And so, I think it reasonable LV moved forward  in the way it did because  
there was no indication Mr C had suffered with depression within  the last five years  which 
is what it asked him initially. 
The issue  here though is that Mr C had suffered with mental health problems, including  
depression and insomnia, and was prescribed medication, within the five-year  window. His 
medical records show he visited his GP in March 2012 for on-going  depression, poor sleep 
and dark thoughts.  Hed been under the care of his GP for these symptoms for some  time 
and was regularly  taking medication  to try and alleviate these conditions.  
I note hed also visited his GP in May 2013 to discuss his insomnia condition  and was 
prescribed medication to help with that. There was also a third visit to discuss  other  related 
problems, although  I accept Mr Cs argument  that no medication was prescribed on that 
occasion. 
The reason  Ive highlighted this is because  these occurrences happened within the five-year 
timeframe and were relevant to LVs questions. I take on board Mr Cs argument that he 
didnt intentionally  try to mislead LV over his health. But that doesnt  mean  LV should 
overlook the facts surrounding his health  and pay his claim.  
In addition to Mr Cs mental health  condition, there  were several other visits to the GP for 
pain in his shoulder, arm, elbow  and hand. Mr C described some of these visits as general 
wear and tear, and to be clear, Im not disputing the reasons for the visits. I also note Mr C 
Ref: DRN36923163was involved in a road traffic accident  shortly  before he took this policy.  But I still LVs 
position here is reasonable in that he should have  shared this information with it for the 
reasons Ive explained. And LV asked a clear question here too;
In the last 5 years have  you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or not 
you have seen your doctor  or required treatment.)
Any joint,  bone  or muscle  pain, fracture  gout or arthritis  
Mr C answered  no to this question despite visiting the GP several times in 2015  and 2016. 
Mr C argued that LV was looking for any reason  to reject his claim.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I disagree. Further, I note LV reconsidered Mr Cs application for cover  in light of 
his full medical history, which I thought was fair. But because of the number of health 
problems hed experienced, LV was unable to offer him a policy. Its for these reasons I dont 
think LV has treated him unfairly or unreasonably rejected his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692316