K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that an adviser from The On-Line Partnership Limited (OPL ) led 
them to believe they had to take out a protection  policy in 2012 that they didnt want  or need.  
To resolve  their complaint, they want the policy premiums they paid refunded  in full, with 
interest.  
background
In late 2012, Mr and Mrs P met with a financial adviser to discuss  taking out their first 
mortgage. The adviser was acting in the capacity of an appointed representative of OPL at 
the time.  It takes  responsibility for the advice  she gave. Alongside the mortgage,  the adviser 
recommended they take out joint life and critical illness insurance.  
Mr and Mrs P were  sold a joint term assurance  policy with critical illness benefit for a term 
and sum assured broadly  matching their mortgage lending (it was in fact a few hundred 
pounds higher, to account for fees). The policy was set up on a level term basis,  meaning 
the sum assured would have stayed  the same  throughout  the life of the policy. The policy 
began in January  2013.  
They went  on to cancel  the policy in June 2018.   
Mr and Mrs P say they discussed  the sale of the policy with a friend a few years later. It was 
at that time and due to wider public  knowledge  of mis-selling  that they say they realised that 
the policy may have  been mis-sold.  So, they made a complaint to OPL.  They said the 
adviser failed to make them aware  that purchasing a protection  policy  alongside a mortgage  
was optional  and they were too inexperienced with such matters to know otherwise. 
Further, Mr and Mrs P said the adviser failed  to tailor her advice to account for the fact that 
one of them (Mr P) had death-in-service benefits through his employment.   
OPL said the adviser had made a reasonable recommendation in the circumstances.  It 
noted that though Mr P may have had some  benefits through his employment, these did not 
provide the certainty of maintaining a policy alongside the mortgage. And given Mr and Mrs 
P didnt  have any other protection  policies at the time of the advice, it thought  the adviser 
had behaved fairly  in proposing they took out insurance. OPL also said the documentation 
was clear that the cover was optional.   
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and felt that it should partially succeed. Though  in 
his view Mr and Mrs P had a protection need for their mortgage,  the type of policy 
recommended was not entirely suitable  for the mortgage. He believed  OPL ought to work out 
the cost of the premiums had Mr and Mrs P taken out their cover on a decreasing term 
basis, rather than a level term and pay them  any difference, with interest.  
OPL disagreed with our adjudicator. It said:
both level term and decreasing term cover  was researched at the time of the advice;
it provided evidence  of the research  and it is more likely that this evidence was 
provided to Mr and Mrs P in 2012;
since both types of cover were  suitable  and affordable it was for Mr and Mrs P to 
decide which they wanted;
Ref: DRN34660102the suitability  report noted that the premium  for the level policy  was affordable  for Mr 
and Mrs P;
the adviser would  have advised  Mr and Mrs P on the cost difference between the two 
policies and the advantages and disadvantages of each;
if Mr and Mrs P had expected their circumstances to change  (such as starting  a 
family or moving home) the extra cover  would have been valuable  to them  
particularly given  the cost of critical  illness  cover  increases sharply with age;
the adviser has given  a verbal recollection that she recalls  discussing both types  of 
cover with Mr and Mrs P;
when Mr and Mrs P cancelled their policy in 2018 they failed to recall that it included  
critical illness insurance  if theyd had properly recalled the benefits  of the policy, it 
is likely  theyd have wanted to retain  insurance  on a level basis.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the points OPL made. In summary, they said:
they have no recollection of any discussion around the difference between  level and 
decreasing term policies  and they wouldnt have known  what that meant;
if they did agree to level cover, this was another example  of the adviser  misleading  
them;
they were entirely reliant on the adviser setting  up their mortgage and doing whatever 
was normal in the circumstances of a nave first time buyer.  
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our adjudicator, for principally the same  reasons. I therefore agree this complaint 
ought to succeed in part.  
I realise Mr and Mrs P say the adviser insisted  they took out the policy  and that they were 
led to believe it was mandatory. I have no reason to dispute their recollection. However, 
whilst this evidence is something I take into account,  I must also weigh up OPLs  version of 
events, and any other evidence such as contemporaneous documentation from the time of 
the sale. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what  I believe is most likely, 
on the balance  of probabilities.   
Like the adjudicator  before me, I do not consider it more likely that Mr and Mrs P were told 
that they had to take out the cover to secure  the mortgage. I say that because  the mortgage 
offer terms sent to Mr and Mrs P contain a section relating to insurance. In that section 
(section nine), it says Insurance you must take out as a condition of this mortgage but that 
you do not have  to take out through Nationwide Buildings Insurance . There  is no 
reference anywhere within the mortgage offer or mortgage terms regarding the requirement 
for life or critical illness insurance. Further, Mr and Mrs P would have been sent cancellation 
rights from the insurer at the time the policy went on risk in 2013.  
I realise Mr and Mrs P say they had no previous experience or expertise regarding  taking out 
a mortgage, and so they were guided by the adviser about what  they ought to do. The 
adviser says the opposite   and that her recollection is giving Mr and Mrs P enough 
information to make an informed choice and they opted for level cover.  
Ref: DRN34660103As Ive said above,  in the circumstance where the documentary evidence  makes clear the 
policy was not a condition of the lending, Im not persuaded that it was likely sold as 
mandatory. And, I also believe that the recommendation was -apart from the type of cover- a 
suitable one.  
Mr P had death-in-service benefits  (of a lower value than the protection policy)  and Mrs P did 
not have any. Neither of them had any type of life or critical illness insurance. There are a 
number of reasons  why a persons employment  could end beyond  their control. And taking 
out insurance in the event a person may fall seriously ill or pass  away  provides greater 
security than employment benefits  on that basis. It is a sensible form of financial planning 
and it was a reasonable proposal on the part of the adviser in the circumstances  where Mr 
and Mrs P were taking out a large  financial  burden.  
However, I agree that there is no adequate  reasoning  for the level-term  nature of the policy.  
Though Mr and Mrs P say they didnt appreciate the difference,  these  types of policies  can 
be taken out on a level basis where the sum assured remains the same throughout the term, 
or a decreasing basis where it reduces broadly in line with a lending  or documented liability. 
The latter is ordinarily  cheaper, as the amount the insurer  would have  to pay in the event of 
a valid claim reduces yearly or monthly. 
OPL has set out that there could be many reasons why an applicant  might want  a level 
policy, which would offer a lump  sum payment. I agree that this is particularly useful  in the 
event of planning for wider family  protection,  rather than seeking to ensure a mortgage debt 
is cleared in the event of illness or death.  But if that were the case,  I would expect to see 
evidence of that discussion in the recommendations correspondence sent out by the adviser.  
For OPL to suggest  it now has no basis other  than assuming Mr and Mrs P might  want to go 
on to have a family or move house  but the evidence from the time doesnt  discuss  this.  
In the same  way as the recollections around  the optional  nature of the policy,  I have placed 
greater weight on the documentary evidence thats  available. The adviser  says now she 
recalls Mr and Mrs P preferred  level term cover  (having provided us quotations she 
produced for both). But if that was the case,  I believe her letter  of 18 December 2012  would  
have mentioned the different types of quotes.  That letter is silent on the difference between 
level and decreasing cover, despite setting  out that:
Why the Product
As you have taken on a repayment mortgage, you require that an insurance policy  be 
put in place that would repay your mortgage in the event of your death or having a 
critical illness.
Given the adviser identified the insurance  need  as set out above, the best recommendation 
to fit that need  was a joint decreasing term policy. A level term policy costing more went 
beyond the documented need  for insurance, without  appropriate  justification.  
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  the complaint in part. I require The On-Line Partnership Limited 
to put Mr and Mrs P back in the financial position  they would have been in had the appointed 
representative adviser sold them cover matching the nature of their documented liability. 
In full and final settlement,  I direct that OPL must refund the difference in premiums between 
Mr and Mrs Ps original  level life and critical illness policy and the equivalent  decreasing term 
Ref: DRN34660104policy for the same sum assured and policy length.  This must be for the period  the policy 
was on risk from January  2013 to June 2018.  
In addition to the difference  in premiums, it should  pay interest on each difference  in 
premium at 8% per year simple from the date each premium was paid until the date of 
settlement. 
If On-Line Partnership Limited considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must make  the appropriate  payment  to HM Revenue and Customs  and send tax 
deduction certificates to Mr and Mrs P along  with the compensation payment. If eligible, Mr 
and Mrs P could thereafter reclaim any overpaid  tax from HM Revenue and Customs.
I make  no further award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.   
 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3466010