K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that the caravan she acquired on a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject  it.
background
Miss G is represented in this complaint by Mr G but for ease of reading Ill just refer to her.
Miss G tells us that in June 2015 she acquired  the caravan  through  a dealer Ill refer to as 
R. She says it no longer  trades and the business has been  taken over by a company Ill 
refer to as C. She says shes  reported  numerous faults with the vehicle the most  important  
of which  was damp and damage arising from poor window seals and failed repairs. She says 
she feels the caravan  is falling  to pieces and has caused her substantial stress.
Black Horse  told us the caravan had been  inspected by an independent  expert from a 
company Ill refer to as M. It said that whilst M said that the repairs relating to issues 
reported in June 2017 had failed these hadnt  been present at the point of supply. And it said 
that as the parts hadnt failed prematurely it wasnt liable. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He said that damp  had been  
found during the annual service in May 2017  which was before any repairs to the windows 
had been done. And as this was a new vehicle in June 2015  he said wouldnt expect this sort 
of fault to occur within two years. He said the expert report had stated that when  repairs  had 
been done these had failed. So he thought  Miss G should be able to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement.
Miss G accepted the investigators view. Black  Horse didnt agree and said its expert had 
said the repairs had related to a fault that was not present at the point of supply. And that the 
parts had not failed prematurely. As its not been  possible to resolve  the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss G has been caused  such upset and inconvenience due to the issues  with 
this vehicle. And as it was a new vehicle when she acquired it in 2015  Im sure she was 
looking forward to several years of enjoyable use. So I can understand her disappointment 
with whats happened.
Miss Gs hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. Black  Horse supplied the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. 
Under the relevant legislation at the time of supply - the Supply of Goods (Implied  Terms) 
Act 1973 - a term is implied  that goods  supplied should be of satisfactory quality.  As the 
finance provider,  Black Horse is responsible for the quality of the caravan provided  under the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN36820002For the caravan  to be of satisfactory  quality it should meet  the standard that a reasonable
person would expect,  taking  into account  the relevant circumstances such as age, mileage
and price paid. In addition the following factors (amongst others) are to be taken into account
in determining whether goods are of satisfactory  quality; durability,  fitness for purpose  and
appearance and finish.
I dont think theres much  in terms of any purely  factual dispute  in this complaint. It seems  to 
be more a question  of if the faults  - primarily relating to damp  - should  be considered to 
render the vehicle as not being of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Ive seen the report from M. Ill comment upon the findings in relation  to damp separately but 
for completeness Ill briefly mention its findings  in relation to other issues  it inspected  and 
where it found no faults. This included the front of the caravan dropping and a table coming 
off a wall. It said the adjuster screws  on some  hinges had loosened but they simply required 
tightening. In respect  of discolouration of the oven  it said this was a wear and tear issue and 
to be expected with normal usage.  
So far as the issues relating to damp were concerned  the report states:
There has been water  ingress in the area surrounding the offside front window. There  is a 
dealer Job Card dated 04 July 2018  that would suggest repairs  have been undertaken to 
resolve water ingression, completed 26 January 2018. The readings shown on my damp 
report indicate that the repair has not been  carried out to a satisfactory standard. There  is 
some staining in this area, which has not been addressed satisfactorily  and the area has not 
been dried out. Repairs need  to be completed to a satisfactory standard.
And under the heading Conclusion it stated:
The repair to the window seal as reported in the job cards has not been  completed to a 
satisfactory standard. Whilst parts/seals may have been replaced, the area has not been  
dried out and therefore shows readings  that would indicate the repair has been defective.
When asked for further clarification M stated:
"I estimate  that the window seal failed at some  point in the middle 6 month period of 2017,  
March to September 2017. The point of sale is June  2015. The window seal has failed 20 to 
26 months after the point of sale.  The window  seal is rubber. Rubber is a natural product and 
does shrink and contract due to climatic conditions. As this happens, the effectiveness of the 
seal adhesion is often  compromised and the rubber becomes compacted  and water ingress 
can occur.  It is not unusual to see this at 24 most post installation.
It is extremely unlikely  that the rubber used and the adhesives  used  to apply the seal or the 
application and installation of the seal were defective. Had it been so then it would most 
likely have been defective at point of manufacture  and due to the "Tell Tell" colour  change  
wallboard used  by the manufacturer  it would have present within  a few months of the point  of 
sale. The rubber has dried out in time and this has compromised the seal and the adhesion 
of the seal. The drying out of the rubber is a natural process and is not unusual.  When this 
occurs it is considered a warrantable issue during  the warranty  period. Outside of warranty it 
becomes wear and tear and a serviceable  component failure."
Ref: DRN36820003The goods  to which this complaint relates is a caravan which was new when supplied to 
Miss G. Typically,  caravans  will be kept outdoors and therefore be subjected  to the vagaries 
of the weather. As the primary purpose  is to provide living accommodation its reasonably to 
be expected that such  goods  will be suitably and sustainably protected from issues such  as 
damp.
Ive taken into account what M has said and I recognise that M is an expert  in terms of 
inspecting and identifying  faults with caravans. But with respect thats  not the same as being  
an expert with regard to the application  of consumer protection  legislation.  
Im not disputing what M says about whether rubber might be expected  to shrink due to 
climatic conditions. Nor do I have any issue with the comment that it was unlikely the rubber 
and seal used were  defective. But theres a finding that the seal probably failed somewhere 
between 20 - 26 months after supply. I dont  agree  with the suggestion that if this failure 
occurs within  the warranty period its a warrantable issue but outside  of this time it becomes  
wear and tear. A manufacturers or suppliers  warranty  has no bearing on whether goods are 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  A warranty may potentially offer additional 
protection to a consumer but it cant take away statutory rights. 
In my opinion, a reasonable person wouldnt expect a new caravan to be subject to damp 
within two years or so. Damp is a potential hazard to health  and its reasonable to expect the 
materials used would  be of sufficient quality and durability to ensure this didnt  occur. And I 
doubt if any caravan  manufacturer  would  advise its customers that they could routinely 
expect window seals to fail and a new vehicle  to be at risk of being affected  by damp within  
two years of purchase.
Miss G first complained to Black Horse  in June 2018. Having obtained  Ms report  Black 
Horse declined to uphold her complaint despite the findings of the report that the repairs  to 
the window seal had not been completed  to a satisfactory standard. I think  it ought 
reasonably to have  accepted that a new caravan should not be experiencing issues with 
damp within such a short  time after supply. I observe  that M estimated the seals  couldve 
failed as early as 20 months after supply. So even where M states  that this wouldnt be 
unusual after 24 months, it recognised  it could  have occurred earlier in this case.  As M found  
that the repairs had failed,  the very least Id have expected was for Black Horse to agree to 
have those repairs redone to a satisfactory standard. And if itd done  so, Miss G wouldve 
then been put back to the position she expected in the first place - namely  being  in 
possession of a habitable vehicle.
Given the length of time which has elapsed I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
simply to require that the necessary repairs are carried out now. I agree with the view of our 
investigator that theres already been ample  time for things to be put right.  In those 
circumstances I think Miss G should  be able to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.
Im therefore  upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
In order to settle this complaint I now require Black  Horse  Limited  to take the following 
action:
Ref: DRN368200041.End the agreement with nothing further  for Miss G to pay from 31 May 2017;
2.Arrange for the caravan to be collected at no cost to Miss G;
3.Refund any deposit paid;
4.Refund all premiums  paid from the 31 May 2017  to the date of
Settlement; 
5.Arrange for details  of the agreement to be removed from Miss Gs credit  file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 3 and 4 above. To be 
calculated from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3682000