K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly  rejected his 
motor insurance claim and cancelled his policy.
background
In May 2018  Mr R made a claim on his LV motor insurance policy.  He said hed collided with 
another drivers car. LV agreed to cover him and sent a settlement  cheque  for about £6,000. 
But it later changed  its mind and rejected the claim.  It asked him to pay back the money and 
said would  it recover its costs from him.  It also cancelled his policy.  It felt the claim was 
fraudulent. It didnt accept  the incident  happened  in the way Mr R had claimed.
Mr R says LVs acted  unfairly. He complains  it hasnt shown the claim was fraudulent. So he 
wants it to reinstate his policy and not recover any costs from him.    
Our investigator said shed considered the information LV and Mr R had provided.  And she 
didnt think LV had made an unfair  decision. Mr R didnt  accept  that. So the complaint  has 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
LV has referred  to a fraud term in Mr Rs policy. This says if he makes a claim thats 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated LV can reject the claim, recover  its costs  and cancel his 
policy. Fraud is a serious  accusation that can have  consequences beyond the claim decision 
itself. So LV should only rely on the fraud  condition when theres  strong reason to do so. In 
this decision I havent decided if the claim was fraudulent or not. Instead Ive considered 
whether LVs been fair and reasonable in its treatment of Mr R  and that includes its 
decision to rely on the fraud condition. Having done so, I think it has treated  him fairly and 
reasonably.   
This service has a remit to consider complaints informally and quickly. So in this decision 
Ive only outlined the main points. Theres other information and circumstances that support 
LVs decision. Ive considered those, and everything  else thats been provided, but I dont 
think its necessary to refer to it all here. 
 
LVs pointed to discrepancies between information  Mr R gave when first reporting the call 
and what hes said since. I havent outlined all the inconstancies  instead Ive highlighted a 
few of them. In the claim notification  call Mr R didnt explain  he knew the other driver before 
the incident. He said the other driver wouldnt provide his full name. He said he didnt get a 
number from him. But hes since admitted they have known each other for more than thirty 
years. He already had the other  drivers number  having phoned him plenty of times.
 
Ive thought about what Mr Rs said about being  on medication and him not initially 
recognising the other driver. He said he hadnt seen him for years. But Ive also considered 
that Mr Rs also said he sold him a car about  year before the incident. That he had arranged 
tickets, for sporting events, for him on about  20 occasions. And that hed phoned him on at 
least three occasions in the two to three weeks before the incident.  
Ref: DRN35753482LV has relied  on a report by a crash  investigator. The expert highlighted inconsistencies 
between how the reported incident was reported to have happened and the physical 
damage to the cars. He concluded the cars hadnt come into contact in the way it had been 
claimed. As examples of his findings  he said there wasnt  any damage to Mr Rs car to 
indicate it went into a large hole as claimed.  He said damage to the other  car wasnt 
consistent with it hitting a wall in the way reported. And he said Mr Rs car wouldnt have 
pushed the much heavier other  car back, as claimed, if both had been travelling at their 
reported speeds.     
Mr R say LV hasnt considered the account of an independent witness.  But it seems the 
witness wasnt mentioned  by either Mr R or the other driver until months  after the incident. 
So I can understand, in the circumstances, why LV hasnt given much consideration to the 
witnesses account.   
LV made a reasonable investigation  into the claim.  Its entitled to rely on the opinion of an 
expert. And his opinion  of the damage,  when considered with the inconsistencies outlined  
above, supports  LVs view that Mr R probably  provided fraudulent,  false or exaggerated 
information to support  the claim. So its decision to rely on the fraud term to reject the claim, 
recover its cost and cancel his policy is fair and reasonable. And overall I think  its treated 
Mr R fairly  and reasonably.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited  
do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3575348