K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that a car he financed  through an agreement with Secure Trust Bank Plc 
(Secure Trust)  was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr G took receipt of a used car in May 2017.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Secure  Trust.  The car was 5 years old and had completed 41,802 miles at 
this point.
Three months later Mr G had problems with the cars engine  and it was replaced with a 
second hand engine. He says it didnt feel right after that and that he told the garage about  
this. No invoices  have been made available to detail  the work that was completed.
In December 2018 Mr G contacted Secure  Trust and told them he wanted to return the car 
and terminate his finance agreement. He said there had been a new problem with the turbo  
charger and DPF. A report from the garage  said the turbo chargers shaft bearings had worn, 
allowing excessive oil into the air intake system and also that the diesel particulate  filter 
(DPF) had become blocked and was unable to regenerate. 
Secure Trust didnt  think there was evidence that these new problems had existed or were 
developing at the point of supply and they said this was the only point at which  they had 
responsibility for the quality of the car.
So Mr G referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
didnt think there was any evidence to show the faults that had now arisen were there, or 
developing, at the start. He thought it was likely that the faults would have presented 
themselves earlier  if they were there  from inception of the deal and he noted that the car had 
completed 8,691 miles whilst in Mr Gs care. So he didnt think  it would be reasonable to 
hold Secure Trust responsible.
But Mr G disagreed. He said the car clearly hadnt been of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply; as its engine  had failed after only three months. And he went on to explain  that the 
new engine  had only covered 5,000  miles since it was replaced. He didnt think it was usual 
for the DPF or turbo to fail on a car that had only completed 50,000 miles; he said it was in 
the lower  rare percentage that this happened.  He suggested that the replacement  engine 
had not been integrated properly with the turbo charger and DPF and thats what had 
caused the problems. He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN33805712board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Secure Trust are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Secure Trusts responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Secure Trust are right to suggest that wed usually assume that if a car developed a fault in 
the first six months it was likely  to have been  there from the point of supply but if it happened 
after that wed usually  look to the consumer  to prove  this was the case. 
But we need  to look at the circumstances of each case to decide whats  reasonable too.
Mr G says the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply as the engine was 
replaced. I agree. But Secure Trust were entitled  to repair the car at that point and thats 
what they did. Ive not been provided  with any evidence  to support Mr Gs assertion that he 
complained to the dealership about  the performance  of the replacement engine and I think  if 
it had been a concern there  would  have been  evidence of him raising it. 
So Im not persuaded that theres  evidence the repair that was carried out was 
unsatisfactory.
Having reviewed Secure  Trusts  contact notes I cant see any further reports  of issues until 
December 2018  when Mr G told them about the failed  turbo  and DPF problem. Ive not been 
provided with evidence to demonstrate that these new faults were likely to have been 
developing at the point of supply or that they were  a result of an inadequate engine fitting. 
Mr G suggests  that failures  of this kind are rare and that may be the case but I dont  think  
thats persuasive evidence the faults that have now occurred were developing from the onset 
or have  developed as a result of an inadequate  engine replacement. Im persuaded thats its 
more likely these faults have developed subsequently because:
Mr G has been  able to drive almost 9,000  miles in the car and I think  its most likely  
there would  have been signs of failure  before this if the faults  had been developing at 
the point of supply or if theyd been developing because  the engine  was fitted poorly
the garage have  explained that it would be difficult to suggest the DPF and turbo  
charger were failing at the point of supply
the components  have  failed after 19 months and I think its reasonable to suggest   
Mr G would need to demonstrate they were failing at inception.  I dont think Ive been  
provided with persuasive evidence that was the case
When I consider satisfactory  quality  Im also considering whether the car has proven to be 
suitably durable.  But here Im not persuaded theres  been a durability problem. I dont think  
its unreasonable to suggest a seven year old car that had completed 50,000 miles could 
experience some problems. Whilst I accept  that the engine  failure  was unacceptable,  this 
has been repaired/replaced  and there  have been no reported further problems  until 2018. I 
dont think the issues reported have been excessive and I therefore dont think they suggest 
poor durability.
Ref: DRN33805713So in my opinion,  whilst  I know it will disappoint  Mr G, Im afraid I dont believe it would be 
reasonable to ask Secure Trust to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3380571