K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains AXA Insurance  UK Plc unfairly  declined part of his home insurance claim.  
Hes also unhappy about how the claim was handled and says the delays impacted his 
family. 
background
Mr P made a claim on his home insurance  policy for accidental damage, after spilling  paint in 
his bedroom. The following items  were cash settled:
-bedroom carpet
-bed and mattress
-bedding and linen
-tracksuit bottoms
-a dining  room chair
However, the hall and stairs carpet  was declined on the basis no photos were taken of this 
item before it was disposed of. 
Mr P brought a complaint  to this service about the declined carpet, the delays during his 
claim, and the service  he received. Throughout  his claim and complaint, hes made the 
following points:
-When he registered the claim, he was told he would be contacted  within 48 hours. 
But despite  chasing AXA on at least ten occasions over eight days  nothing 
happened, and he didnt receive  a courtesy  call back.  
-He was finally put through to someone on the eighth day. But because the handler 
didnt want to talk on loud speaker whilst  Mr P was driving, he received a parking 
fine. AXA used  unjustified interrogation  techniques during this call  and it also 
requested unreasonable proof  of ownership  and purchase.
-Although AXA appointed a company  to inspect the damage,  the visit was ten days  
after the claim had been made.
-He was originally  told he could claim for the hall and stairs carpet due to it matching 
the carpet in the bedroom where  the paint  spillage occurred. Paint was also walked 
through the house,  and the hall and stairs carpet  was damaged   which  could have 
been avoided  if AXA had contacted him within the 48 hours  stated in the contract, 
and the original call. 
-The paint  spillage was hazardous to his four children, and due to the size of his home 
it wasnt possible to simply close off a room whilst waiting  for AXA to take action. He 
thought removing the carpets was reasonable in terms of preventing further  loss and 
eliminating the risk posed to his children, but it was the last thing he wanted  to do in 
the winter. If AXAs inspector had visited within a reasonable timeframe the damage 
could have been assessed,  and there  wouldnt have been a need  to remove  the 
carpets. AXA hasnt  shown any compassion or consideration to there being four 
young children  in the house.
Ref: DRN33930022-His familys health was impacted by the claim. Two of his children caught a virus  due 
to their house being so cold without carpets   and he had to buy heaters which also 
cost money to run. An ambulance also had to be called for Mr P due to a severe 
migraine, which was caused by the stress  of the claim. 
-The carpet gripper  rods posed a danger  to his childrens feet, and he and his wife 
had a continuous worry their children  would slip down the stairs on the wooden  
steps.
-His wifes birthday  was ruined, as was Christmas and New Year.  He also had to 
sleep on the sofa,  and his wife on a blow-up mattress.
-He didnt accept  the £100 compensation offered by AXA for how his claim had been 
handled.
AXA made the following points:
-Whilst it endeavours to call customers back as soon as possible, there isnt a legal or 
contractual obligation for it to do so within 48 hours. However,  AXA acknowledged 
there were some delays and a lack of call backs, so it offered  Mr P £100  to 
apologise.
-The telephone  interview was necessary to establish  the details of the claim, and 
proof of ownership is a requirement of the policy. 
-Substantiation was particularly important for Mr Ps claim because  he had disposed  
of the items prior to the inspection. However,  AXA accepted Mr Ps explanation of 
why items were thrown  away, and it settled those he had provided photos  of.
-Although the bedroom and hallway carpets matched, they are separated by a floor 
bar and are considered two separate rooms. Therefore,  AXA is unable to cover the 
hall and stairs carpet based on it matching the bedroom carpet.
-During the claim registration  Mr P didnt mention any damage to his hall and stairs  
carpet  and nor did the handler state  this carpet would be covered. AXA has also 
listened to the other calls and at no point was Mr P told his hall and stairs  carpet  
would be covered. 
-The hall and stairs carpet wasnt damaged by the initial accident, so damage caused  
by paint being walked through the house would be a second claim. However, under 
the policy terms it was Mr Ps responsibility  to take all reasonable steps to prevent 
further loss, and the bedroom could have been closed off to stop the paint being 
spread. In any event,  because photos  werent taken of the hall and stairs carpet  
before being disposed  of, a second claim couldnt proceed.  He was aware that 
photos were required  to substantiate the damage.  
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators,  but she didnt  think it should be 
upheld  she agreed with AXAs position.  Because Mr P disagreed with our investigator, his 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN33930023my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says that when  he registered the claim, he was told his hall and stairs carpet would  be 
covered due to it matching the damaged bedroom carpet. However,  Ive listened to this call 
and the hall and stairs carpet wasnt discussed.  Mr P didnt  ask if other  carpets would be 
covered, and he only reported  damage  in his bedroom.  During this call, AXA also asked 
Mr P to take photos  of the damage. 
I have also listened  to all the phone calls between when the claim  was registered and when     
Mr P and AXA had a more in-depth discussion about the damage and the circumstances of 
the loss. The in-depth discussion took place eight days after the claim had been registered;  
and this is when  Mr P asked AXA if he could claim for the hall and stairs carpet based on it 
matching the bedroom carpet, and AXA confirmed he couldnt. In none  of the calls prior to 
this was the hall and stairs carpet  discussed. As such, Im not persuaded AXA led Mr P to 
believe his hall and stairs carpet would be covered before he disposed of it. Furthermore,  
during the in-depth discussion Mr P didnt indicate the hall and stairs carpet had been 
damaged.
Because theres a door bar that separates  the bedroom from the hallway, AXA wont  replace  
or contribute  to undamaged carpets simply on the basis they matched the damaged carpet  
in the bedroom. Whilst the policy terms are silent on this scenario, AXAs position is in-line 
with our general approach. I havent been shown anything that persuades me the hall and 
stairs carpet should  be treated  as a continuation of the bedroom carpet, so Im satisfied 
AXAs approach  is reasonable here.
Mr P also says the hall and stairs carpet was damaged by paint being walked through from 
the bedroom. But AXA still isnt prepared to cover the hall and stairs carpet due to it being 
disposed of before the inspection took place and there being no photos of the item.  I can 
appreciate why Mr P disposed of the carpet given his concerns about  paint  being  spread 
further and the safety of his children. But in my view, I cant reasonably  decide that AXA 
should cover  the carpet given its not been shown anything to substantiate  there was 
damage  particularly given Mr P had been  asked  to take photos.  
Mr P has also raised concern about the length of time it took AXA to deal with the claim and 
the impact this had on his family. But although  I dont  doubt the situation was stressful, the 
claim was settled within 23 days of registration   which  in my view isnt unreasonable. So 
overall, Im not persuaded AXA is responsible for any of the issues  Mr P has raised 
regarding his familys health and wellbeing.
Mr P was told during  the claim registration call he would receive a call back  within 48 hours, 
and this didnt  happen. AXA also accepts there were delays during the first eight days, and 
I have seen that Mr P had to chase AXA for a response during this time  which  given his 
circumstances at home understandably caused  him inconvenience and upset. However, 
AXA has offered  £100  compensation for the delays  that occurred during the claim, and 
overall, I consider  this amount  to be fair  in my opinion the claim was settled relatively 
quickly after the initial eight-days.
Ref: DRN33930024Mr P has explained he felt interrogated, but in my view, AXA asked  reasonable questions  to 
establish the circumstances of the loss and the items damaged. In terms of the parking fine 
Mr P says he received  during this call, AXA isnt responsible for where he parked, and nor 
did he indicate it was an inconvenient time to talk. 
Given the items involved, I can understand Mr Ps frustration with regards to the proof of 
ownership and purchase  he was asked for. But equally, AXA was entitled to validate the 
loss. In any event, Im satisfied AXA dealt  with the claim  fairly   all claimed items were 
settled, apart  from the hall and stairs  carpet.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3393002