K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that a used car he got with finance  from The Car Finance  Company (2007) 
Ltd (TCFC) is of unsatisfactory quality.  
background
Mr E got this car in March  2016 with a hire purchase  agreement  (HPA) from TCFC.  The car 
cost around £8,800, was three  and a half years old and had travelled about 40,000 miles. On 
6 March 2018 the car lost power, overheated and broke down.  It was recovered to a local 
garage. In light of the cars age and mileage and the nature of the breakdown the 
manufacturer was contacted. It asked Mr E to take the car to a main dealership. Mr E was 
told the engine  would  have to be replaced  and the manufacturer  would pay for about half the 
cost of repairs. Mr E didnt think that was fair and he complained to TCFC. 
The manufacturer subsequently agreed  to pay for all of the repairs. Mr E thinks it would  not 
have done that if the car didnt have an inherent  fault. He was without this car for about  nine 
months. He stopped making payments towards the HPA in May 2018 and bought another  
car because  he needed  transport. TCFC issued a default notice and took steps to repossess 
the car so Mr E paid the arrears to avoid that. He says hes lost out financially and been  
treated unfairly  by TCFC.  He wants TCFC  to pay compensation for loss of use and distress  
and inconvenience,  amongst other things. 
TCFC says Mr E raised this complaint about 30 months after he got the car - by which time 
hed driven it over 12,500 miles.  TCFC thinks this suggests the car wasnt  faulty when it was 
supplied. It acknowledges  Mr E said the car had a manufacturing issue but he didnt supply 
any evidence from the manufacturer or an independent  report to show  that - when TCFC 
asked. TCFC considers theres  no evidence  that the car had an inherent  fault so it shouldnt 
have to do anything  further. 
Our investigator thinks the manufacturer seems to have accepted  the car had a significant  
engine problem caused by a manufacturing defect. Hes satisfied the car was probably  of 
unsatisfactory quality  when Mr E got it. He says TCFCs responsible for that under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  and he recommends the complaint should be upheld. 
Hes satisfied the car was repaired  at no cost to Mr E but he wasnt able to use it for months. 
He thinks it is fair for TCFC to refund  any finance payments made for the time the car was 
off the road, plus interest. 
TCFC disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. It says (in summary) 
Mr E told TCFC there was a potential fault in April 2018 but he didnt  provide  
independent evidence showing what this was and whether it was there  at the outset;
the fault appeared over six months  after supply so its for Mr E to prove  that the car 
was faulty when he got it - under the CRA;
Mr E said he had a report from the manufacturer in July 2018 but this didnt confirm 
that faults were  present or developing at the point of supply;
the manufacturer offered to pay 55% of repair costs initially  and only agreed to pay 
100% some  months  later.  TCFC thinks the time frame raises questions  about what 
investigations were  carried  out and by whom;
the manufacturer refers to certain  models  having  a fault but this is not conclusive 
about Mr Es car, the manufacturer hasnt admitted liability and it may have simply 
Ref: DRN33528192carried out a blanket repair to all vehicles potentially affected - which  would explain 
why theres no specific confirmation  of the fault here; 
TCFC has no information about any diagnosed  and confirmed fault or specific  repairs 
relating to Mr Es car so theres  nothing to show that his car had an inherent  defect; 
and
TCFC was deprived of the opportunity to mitigate any loss in relation to repairs. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2019. My provisional findings are 
summarised below. 
TCFC supplied this car to Mr E under a under  a HPA and TCFC was obliged to ensure that 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  when Mr E got it, under the CRA.  Theres  no dispute that 
the car broke  down in March 2018  and the manufacturer paid for repairs. Mr E says this is 
because the breakdown was caused  by the failure of a specific part that the manufacturer  
had recalled. TCFC, on the other hand, doesnt think theres  enough evidence to show  what 
went wrong with the car and whether this was due to a problem that was present at the point 
of supply. 
Im satisfied that the relevant  manufacturer has acknowledged  there  is an issue with a 
specific part in some engines - like the one in Mr Es car. I accept this doesnt  mean  that 
every breakdown involving this sort of engine must be the result of this known defect. But I 
cant reasonably  ignore  the existence of this issue or its potential relevance to what  
happened here. 
TCFC says it was for Mr E to show that this car had an inherent issue because the fault 
appeared more  than six months after the car was supplied. I accept the CRA says if goods  
do not conform to the contract (are of unsatisfactory  quality  for our purposes) within six 
months of supply then theyre taken not to have conformed at the point of supply. If I 
understand TCFC correctly, it says this means  that any issues arising after six months are 
presumed not to have  been present at the point of supply - so its for Mr E to prove there 
was a fault present or developing  when he got this car. Im not sure I agree with this 
interpretation. If the intention was to impose  such an obligation, then Id expect the 
legislation to say so specifically. Instead,  the CRA goes on to say the presumption  above 
doesnt apply  if its established goods did conform to the contract at the outset - or its 
application is incompatible with the nature of the goods or how they failed to conform  with 
the contract. 
Its not my role to apply  the law - only a court  can do that. This service  provides informal 
dispute resolution and I must take account  of the relevant law (amongst other  things). Im 
satisfied this includes the CRA here.  But, I make my decision based on what  I think  is fair 
and reasonable - in all of the circumstances  of this particular complaint. 
As our investigator said in his view, we probably wouldnt think it was unreasonable  for a 
lender to ask a consumer for evidence  to show what went wrong  with a car that broke down 
over two years and 12,000 miles after supply - in the usual course  of events. But, Im 
satisfied that Mr E told TCFC, relatively  early  on, that this was a somewhat unusual  situation 
in that his car might have a faulty part which the manufacturer had recalled - and cars of this 
age and mileage  dont generally need the engine  replacing. 
Ref: DRN33528193I think it would have  been reasonable for TCFC  to weigh  up the evidence it had carefully in 
this situation - not least because Mr E had trouble meeting his monthly repayments. And I 
consider TCFC should reasonably have considered whether continuing to require him to pay 
for an experts report might  put unnecessary strain on already  stretched  finances.  
It looks as if TCFC was aware (by July 2018  at least) that Mr E had taken the car to a main 
dealer, at the request  of the manufacturer. TCFC acknowledged that some  investigations 
had been undertaken  - because it expressed  concerns about who carried  those out. I 
understand TCFC considers the timeframe, between the manufacturer acknowledging there 
was an issue and agreeing to pay for repairs, is significant - but Im not clear about why. 
I dont think it is unusual  for manufacturers to take some time to investigate, in this sort of 
situation - especially where a number of vehicles may be involved. The investigations and 
repairs in respect of Mr Es car all seem to have  been undertaken by the same main  dealer, 
on behalf of the manufacturer.  And I dont think thats out of the ordinary either. As far as I 
can see Mr E let TCFC  know  that the main  dealer considered the car needed significant and 
costly repairs and the manufacturer would cover  more  than half the cost of that. If TCFC 
doubted this, I dont think it would have been  too difficult to check with the dealer or the 
manufacturer but Ive seen nothing to suggest  that it did so. 
I appreciate Mr E didnt  supply TCFC  with an outright admission of liability on the part of the 
manufacturer. I accept  it probably would have been  useful for TCFC  to have more 
information about what went wrong  exactly - and it would have been  convenient  for TCFC if 
Mr E had been able to provide this. But, the main dealer  told our investigator that Mr E 
wasnt given any paperwork relating to the investigations or repairs  - as these were dealt 
with as a warranty  issue - and I cant fairly criticise him for that. 
I think the evidence  TCFC  had by July 2018, suggested it was more  likely than not this car 
had an inherent  manufacturing  issue. If TCFC had any doubts about that, it could have 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent third party.  I appreciate TCFC  felt it 
was up to Mr E to do this but I dont think that was fair or reasonable, in these particular 
circumstances. I consider the evidence available to TCFC was sufficient to tip the balance  in 
favour of the car probably having an inherent issue and it up to TCFC if it wanted to obtain 
more evidence about that.
I cant be absolutely certain what went wrong with this car. But, I wouldnt expect a car of this 
age and mileage  to require a new engine,  in the usual course of events. I think the available  
evidence suggests  the nature of the breakdown was consistent with the failure of the engine 
part that the manufacturer acknowledged may be defective in this sort of car. Im satisfied 
the manufacturer paid for the engine to be replaced.  And Im minded to conclude,  on 
balance, that its likely  this car had an inherent  manufacturing issue. 
Im satisfied this would have been present or developing  at the point of supply meaning the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality  when  Mr E got it. The manufacturer paid all of the repair  
costs so it looks as if Mr E hasnt lost out financially in that respect.  But, he was unable to 
use this car for about nine months. And I think he probably also experienced some upset 
and inconvenience  - as the result of being supplied with a faulty car. Like our investigator, I 
find it fair that TCFC should  refund any payments made towards  the finance for the period 
Mr E was without the car - from 6 March 2018 until 19 November 2018, plus interest.  I think 
TCFC should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit  file during this 
time and pay Mr E £250 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN33528194I invited the parties  to consider my provisional decision and let me have any further  
submissions if they wanted to. 
responses received from the parties
Mr E has not objected to my provisional conclusions but TCFC does not agree. In summary 
it says:-    
there is no evidence  to show that Mr Es engine was affected by the known defect 
and the onus was on him to provide evidence of an inherent fault - given how long he 
had the car and the mileage covered; 
Mr E delayed  reporting the problem for about  two months, its reasonable to expect 
him to have contacted TCFC sooner  if there was an urgent  need  for transport, the 
fact he didnt deprived TCFC of the opportunity  to offer repair/provide  a replacement  
vehicle/reduce the time he was without  a car; 
Mr E had an alternative means of transport as he has a works van;
Mr E had an obligation to take care of this car under  the terms and conditions of his 
finance agreement, the manufacturer  says he would have had advance warning 
because a warning  light would have come on when the car started  to overheat and 
he must have ignored that which resulted in damage and TCFC  should  not 
reasonably be held responsible;
Mr Es not entitled to a price reduction as well as repairs  at no cost so its unfair to 
require TCFC to return monthly payments as this means Mr E wont  pay the original 
purchase price which should  be honoured. 
TCFC offered instead to pay Mr E £250 for inconvenience and remove  interest  accrued  
during the repair  period - from the date the issue was first notified  to TCFC in April 2015 to 
14 November 2015. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, I consider 
what is most likely  to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I have considered what TCFC says carefully.  As I explained in my provisional findings, the 
CRA does  not require  a consumer to provide proof in the form of an experts report  that a 
fault is present  after six months has elapsed  whats reasonable will depend  on the 
evidence available. In this case TCFC was aware that the manufacturer had an active  field 
action for engines like the one in Mr Es car. Im satisfied that manufacturer had also said 
publicly that it would  pay for related  repairs but this would be dealt with on a case by case  
basis - taking into account factors such as age, mileage and service history. The 
manufacturer fitted a new engine to Mr Es car and paid 100% of the cost. And I remain  of 
the view that it is unlikely to have done that if this car did not have  an inherent fault. 
I am satisfied the car was probably manufactured  with a faulty part. I accept this didnt show  
itself for some  time. But, I think its likely to have been present since the outset and the car 
was not as  durable as a reasonable person would expect as a result - meaning it was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied. I understand the DVSA  did not class this fault as 
a safety recall issue because drivers should receive  a warning and still be able to retain 
Ref: DRN33528195sufficient control to be able to bring  the car safely to a stop.  But, I am not persuaded this 
means that all drivers  would receive  sufficient  warning in time to prevent engine  damage.  
And I have  seen nothing  to show  that Mr E would  have seen a warning light in time to 
prevent such damage.   
I am satisfied that Mr E made  TCFC aware  of this issue within  a reasonable time. I find it 
understandable that he waited until the manufacturer had completed its investigation  the 
timing of which was outside of his control.  And I think it was open to TCFC to seek further 
information about that if it wanted to. 
For the reasons  Ive given, I think TCFC was in breach of its obligations under the finance 
agreement. Im satisfied  that Mr E was unable to use the car for several  months as a result.  I 
accept he was required to mitigate his losses but the fact that he may have had another 
vehicle at his disposal during this time doesnt  relieve TCFC of its obligations. The presence 
of appropriate  alternative transport might  be relevant if Mr E was claiming additional costs for 
car hire (or the like) but he hasnt done  so. And I am not persuaded that it is fair for Mr E to 
have to pay for this car when it was off the road for repairs due to an inherent defect. 
I accept those repairs were carried out at no cost to Mr E and I have not suggested that 
TCFC should be required to reimburse  this cost. But, I remain  of the view that its reasonable 
for TCFC to refund any monthly payments made while Mr E couldnt use the car between  
March 2018 and November 2018.  I find it fair that any adverse information recorded in 
respect of payments  missed during that time should  also be removed from Mr Es credit  file. I 
understand this debt has been sold to a third party so (just to be clear) Id expect TCFC to 
buy back the debt,  if necessary, to ensure that Mr Es credit file is rectified. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and require The Car 
Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) to:-
1.refund  any payments  made towards the finance agreement from 6 March 2018 until 
19 November 2018;
2.pay interest on the above  refund  at 8% simple per year from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement;
3.take appropriate steps (which  may include taking  back  the HPA if necessary) to 
ensure that any adverse information  recorded in relation  to payments due from March 
2018 to November 2018 is removed  from Mr Es credit file; and
4.pay Mr E £250 for distress and inconvenience.   
If TCFC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr E how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr E a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3352819