K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  is about  the handling of acclaim under the home  emergency  
section of their home insurance cover with Inter Partner  Assistance  SA.
background
Mr and Mrs C called  IPA on 9 December  2018,  as their boiler was not working. IPA told them  
that a heating engineer would call back within 2 hours to let them know  what time they could  
attend that day. After three  hours Mr C called back,  as they had not heard  from the engineer. 
IPA then told them that the engineers would not be able to attend that day (as it was a 
Sunday and they do not work on Sundays)  and would attend the next day. 
In the meantime, IPA offered money towards the cost of alternative accommodation for Mr 
and Mrs C if they wanted to stay elsewhere  and £50 towards the cost of portable  heaters. Mr 
and Mrs C decided to stay with relatives  instead. 
An engineer  attended on 10 December 2018. The engineer found  that oil was leaking inside 
the boiler, contaminating various parts causing a fire risk and said it was beyond  economical 
repair and should  be replaced. The policy doesnt cover replacement  boilers  and so IPA said 
there was nothing more  it could  do.  
Mr and Mrs C were very unhappy with this. They say they instructed their own local engineer 
who fixed the problem  within  30 minutes  at a cost of £70. They  say the fault was simply  a 
split in the oil feed pipe from the main oil supply and this is a common fault in oil fired heating  
appliances. They also say the fire safety valve had been damaged  by IPAs engineer  beyond  
repair, while  he was trying to isolate the oil supply to the boiler.
IPA asked for a report from their engineer to confirm the work he had done,  so it could 
consider this. Mr and Mrs C provided a receipt from the engineer  but said the engineer did 
not want to get involved  and so could not provide anything further from him. IPA said that 
without any such evidence, there wasnt enough  evidence that its engineers diagnosis  
wasnt correct. IPAs  engineer said the quantity  of oil that had leaked  made  it dangerous to 
use the boiler and maintained that it should  not have been repaired without removing all the 
oil.
IPA did, however, apologise that the engineer  arrived 25 hours after the claim was made, 
instead of within 24 hours which is its normal service aim. It offered £25 compensation for 
this in its final response letter in response  to the complaint. After the complaint came to us, 
IPA confirmed its offer was £50.
Mr and Mrs C are not happy with IPAs  response. They have made a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised  below:  
IPA has not addressed why nobody rang them back within  two hours,  as promised 
and why they were  told an engineer would come  the same day when it turns  out they 
don't work on Sundays and the inconvenience this caused  to them.
The offer of alternative  accommodation  or buying temporary heaters were not 
practical for a family of five (with  three children under seven) in sub-zero 
temperatures at the time,  so they were  left with no alternative other  than to stay 
overnight with family. IPA has not addressed this. 
Ref: DRN30886142IPAs engineer left behind  oil soaked kitchen roll in their garage and told them to dig 
a hole in the garden  and to burn them, which would  have been  extremely dangerous. 
They would have  expected this to have been treated with extreme  seriousness rather  
than being ignored  by IPA, as it has done. Given IPAs  reasons for condemning the 
boiler this smacks of inconsistency and double standards.
IPA initially offered £50 as a good will gesture over the phone and then reduced this 
to £25 in its written response to their complaint. The offer is derisory given  the
seriousness of the complaint raised. By halving their initial  offer, it seems its  
approach is to play 'hardball' with their customers rather than seek  to engage  with 
them constructively  to find a solution and to provide genuine good  customer  service.
Mr and Mrs C have said the reasonable outcome to their complaint would be for IPA to pay 
half the cost of a replacement  boiler.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld, as she was satisfied that IPA had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
policy terms. She also said there  was no evidence about  any comments made  by the 
engineer regarding the oily towels and it would  seem  unlikely  he would have advised 
anything dangerous. 
Mr and Mrs C do not accept the investigators assessment. They have said the investigators 
findings are biased  she had taken IPA's word that the engineer  did not tell them to set fire 
to the oil, in order to have accepted  this, by implication she has concluded that they have 
lied, which is highly offensive and derogatory.
Mr and Mrs C also say that the boiler cannot  reasonably be considered  beyond  economical 
repair, if it cost £70 to repair it. IPA advised  them  to replace the boiler and dig up the garage  
floor, at a cost of thousands of pounds,  rather than repair it. It seems unfair that it is allowed 
to do this just by quoting a clause  in the terms and conditions. They paid an additional 
premium for the home emergency cover and think IPA never had any intention  of trying  to fix 
the boiler, this is unethical  and we are responsible for regulating  this. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We do not regulate insurance  companies  that is the role of the FCA. We investigate  
individual complaints about regulated activities carried  out by regulated  businesses,  such as 
IPA. I can make awards to compensate  individual complainants for any financial loss, or 
material distress  and inconvenience caused  to them directly  by any breach  of contract or 
other wrongdoing by a financial business such  as IPA. I cant  punish  or fine a business or 
dictate any business  practices or processes. 
IPAs engineer came out 25 hours  after the claim was made. The policy doesnt state that 
any attendance  would  be within a set time although  we would expect  a reasonably  prompt 
response to a claim such as this, where a consumer has no heating  or hot water. IPA has 
said it would  aim to arrive within 24 hours,  so it was slightly over its normal  response time. In 
my opinion attending 25 hours after the claim was made was not unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN30886143In the meantime, IPA also offered Mr and Mrs C money towards  alternative  accommodation  
and temporary heaters,  in line with the policy terms. I can understand why Mr and Mrs C 
chose to stay with relatives  instead but reasonable assistance was offered to them.  I do not 
consider that IPA needed to do anything  more, just because this wasnt suitable  for them.  
I note that Mr and Mrs C had to chase up the engineers appointment, and were then 
disappointed that the appointment was not going to be the same day. I can see this would 
have been annoying. Overall, I am satisfied that the £50 offered is reasonable compensation 
for this and IPA attending an hour over its normal response time. 
IPAs engineer provided a report and photos of the boiler. The engineer  has said that a 
number of components  had been contaminated by oil and the oil had seeped  into the ground 
beneath the boiler, the engineer said this would also have to be removed. The photos 
provided show significant oil staining  around  the bottom of the boiler. The engineer is clear 
that the extent  of the oil leak has made  the boiler unsafe and beyond economic repair.  
Mr and Mrs C have disputed this and said theyve had the boiler  repaired but cant provide 
evidence that the diagnosis of IPAs engineer is not correct. They  may have had the split 
pipe replaced/repaired but this would not in itself prove that IPAs  engineer  is incorrect and 
that this was a safe thing to do. 
Without such evidence,  I cant safely conclude that IPAs engineer was wrong  nor am I 
persuaded that this is a deliberate refusal to provide the cover set out in their policy.  
The policy doesnt  cover  replacement boilers, and Mr and Mrs C have said the boiler was 
capable of a simple repair, so in my opinion there is no reason that IPA should  pay anything  
towards the cost of a replacement boiler.  
Mr and Mrs C also say that IPAs  engineer broke  a valve and also told them to burn some 
towels/ rags with oil on. It is very difficult for us to be sure of what was said during the 
appointment and as the investigator has said there  is nothing in the engineers notes about 
the rags.
Mr and Mrs C say the investigator has decided they are lying about this but that isnt the 
case. There is not enough evidence  to decide this one way or another. However, even if I 
were satisfied that the engineer did tell them  to burn these towels, I do not consider  that any 
award in favour of Mr and Mrs C is warranted  for this. It is not inherently unreasonable  for 
these towels to have  been left for Mr and Mrs C to dispose of and it was up to them  how to 
dispose of them however  they thought fit. 
Theres also no convincing evidence the IPA engineer broke a valve. He did note that it was 
not in good condition. He also had to use it in order to isolate the oil from the boiler. Without 
evidence to say that this should have been  possible (given the age and condition of the 
boiler) without any damage and that it was him that broke it, I cant make  any reasonable 
conclusion about  this. 
Overall, I am satisfied that IPA acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its policy terms. 
Its offer of £50 compensation is reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN30886144my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Inter Partner  Assistance SA, as I consider it has already 
made an offer of settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3088614