K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society has debited  his credit card account with a 
higher amount than he authorised.
background
In September  2017 Mr S says that he used an official  government  website to purchase an 
electronic travel visa (eTA). He says that the cost was clearly displayed as $7 and he 
received the eTA. When he returned  from his holiday he found  that he had been charged 
$99.
Mr S has spoken to Nationwide a number of times to try to resolve  matters.  It accepted  that it 
caused unnecessary  delays  in investigating the issue and paid him £50 in compensation for 
this. Mr S then received  a further letter  from Nationwide  which he feels  has brought his 
honesty into question. It said that he had used an unofficial website to apply for the eTA and 
so he had paid an administration  fee as well as the £7 eTA fee. Because  of this, Nationwide 
said that there wasnt anything further  it could do. Mr S remained unhappy because 
Nationwide couldnt  provide details  of the site it said he used.
Our investigator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld. After  considering  all the 
available evidence, she wasnt able to conclude that Mr S had used the official government  
website to obtain his eTA and she couldnt say that the payment wasnt  authorised.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that he did use the official  website  and he felt that 
Nationwide should  apologise for being abusive to him when it told him it wouldnt refund the 
money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for much  the same reasons as the investigator.
In short,  Nationwide  is required  to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction. 
The relevant  regulations,  to this effect,  are the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 (the 
PSRs 2009) for transactions before 13 January 2018. Mr S says he didnt authorise the 
payment of $99, only a payment of $7. He is seeking a refund of the difference. So my 
primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or I not I think  Mr S authorised the 
payment. 
Mr S doesnt  dispute that he used his card to make the payment. He does say that he didnt  
authorise a payment of $99, just a payment of $7. I can understand his concern because an 
eTA costs just $7 and Mr S says that this amount was clearly  displayed.
I have carefully considered all that has happened and reviewed Nationwides  technical 
evidence. I accept that Mr S is quite  sure that he used the official  government  website to 
purchase the eTA.  But, on balance, I dont  think he did. I say this because I find that Visa 
has provided evidence  to Nationwide to show that the payment was made  to a third party,  
was processed in Europe, not directly by the relevant  government, and wasnt made  in the 
currency of the country of the visa. It is also clear  that there are a number of third party 
Ref: DRN34360382websites, which look legitimate, offering to purchase  eTAs and most dont make it clear  that 
the service they provide is for an additional  fee.
I know Mr S would like to know, with certainty,  which site Nationwide says he used.  I accept 
that the visa itself came directly from the relevant government but this isnt surprising.  The 
site that Mr S used  would simply  have made  his visa application on his behalf (for the 
additional fee) and the government sends out the visa confirmation. Im sorry but it now isnt 
possible to find the actual site. It seems  that a number of these  third party  sites have been 
blocked or taken  down  because that countrys government has had a lot of complaints about 
them.
Mr S says that Nationwide, in investigating  the problem, was abusive  to him but I dont 
consider this was the case.  I find that Nationwide was explaining that, as Mr S had genuinely 
applied for the visa, it considered he did this, inadvertently, through a third party. As he was 
provided with the service  he requested  and he did receive the eTA Nationwide had no 
grounds on which to challenge  the transaction under the Visa regulations.
In the circumstances, and based on all the evidence, I think that it is more  likely than not that 
Mr S did, unwittingly, use a third party website  for the eTA and so incurred the higher  fee. I 
know Mr S will be disappointed but I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to refuse a 
refund of the disputed transaction on the basis it was authorised by Mr S. 
Nationwide has already paid Mr S £50 for the length of time it took to investigate  his 
complaint. Im satisfied  this is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3436038