K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  declined a claim he made  on his travel  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr D was abroad and went on a mountain  trek. He says that part way through  the trek he 
started experiencing symptoms of altitude  sickness. The next day he stopped the trek and 
hired a local guide to take him back down the mountain. He says that he was in a remote 
location and he couldnt locate a doctor. He says that when he asked locally  he was told that 
there were no doctors, only shamans. He made  his way to meet the rest of the party  by train, 
but incurred some additional hotel  and travel costs.  
UKI declined  the claim on the basis there  was no medical evidence  and the hike wasnt a 
trip under the policy terms.  
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ds complaint. He pointed out that Mr D had taken out a 
specialist insurance  policy and hed got a letter from the trekking company to say that hed 
had to leave the trip. He directed UKI to consider the claim in line with the remaining policy  
terms. 
UKI didnt  agree. They said that this went against the policy  terms and it meant any 
customer could make a claim without evidence. UKI also said Mr D should have contacted 
their assistance team  who would have guided him through the process. 
The investigator responded to say that even if Mr D had contacted  the assistance team by 
that point the additional  expenses were inevitable. UKI maintained their position  that Mr D 
had prejudiced his position. UKI then provided  more information to say that there  was cover 
for £150 for missed excursions. The investigator said it seemed fair to pay this to Mr D in the 
circumstances. UKI asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Prior to issuing my decision  the investigator  contacted UKI to let them  know  my initial  
thoughts which were they ought to pay the claim,  half the cost of the trek Mr D missed and 
£150 compensation. UKI said that there  is just no cover  under the policy, Mr D hasnt  
provided medical evidence, his trip wasnt curtailed and hes not claiming  for his trek. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint because: 
Ref: DRN34814832Ive found  Mr Ds testimony to be credible  and persuasive. Its also supported by the 
letter from the trekking company which confirms his version  of events that he had to 
leave the mountain and meet up with the rest of the party at a later date. Im also 
satisfied that hes most  likely  to have  incurred the extra  expenses he listed  as part of 
his claim.  I note they arent excessive and it seems likely to me that Mr D attempted  
to keep his additional  costs to a minimum
Mr D hasnt been able to provide medical evidence. But he was in a remote  location, 
was unable to locate a doctor and had limited  access to phone  coverage.  So I can 
understand why he didnt  contact  UKIs  assistance line. Once  he was back  down the 
mountain his symptoms were improving.  I also note that UKI hasnt provided  
evidence Mr D was in the vicinity of medical facilities and I think it likely that had he 
made contact, he would have been advised  to pay and claim given the amounts of 
money involved
Mr D has provided independent evidence of what  happened  and a plausible 
explanation for his decision to make his way to meet the rest of the party following 
their completion of the trek. So in the particular circumstances  of this case Id have 
expected UKI to take a common  sense  approach  and accept the claim without 
medical evidence
I dont accept UKIs assertion that the implication of this finding is that any person 
could claim without  medical evidence. Every case  is different and dependent  on the 
facts. In this case I think they could  have taken a much more  pragmatic  view of the 
situation, especially  given the relatively  minimal  costs involved. Whilst UKI says this 
claim doesnt fall within the policy terms I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI 
to pay the claim 
Mr D missed around half the trek due to his illness.  So UKI should  pay half of the 
cost of this trek as I think it is fair and reasonable for them to do so. It was a 
significant aspect  of Mr Ds holiday,  if not a highlight. And his policy included cover 
for various activities which included hiking, trekking and fell walking. I note that UKI 
has referred to the sections which refer to cover for excursion or activities.  But those 
words are not defined  in the policy 
Overall, I think Mr D could reasonably expect his costs  to be covered  if he fell ill 
during the trek and couldnt continue.  Although UKI says it doesnt fall within  the 
policy sections Id have  expected them to take a pragmatic view in the circumstances 
of this case
In my view UKI ought to have accepted and paid this claim at the outset. Theyve  
referred to the policy terms  and conditions which are, of course, relevant. But in the 
circumstances of this case Id have expected them to take into account the wider  
situation and the reasonableness of Mr Ds actions. So I think its fair and reasonable 
for UKI to pay the claim expenses listed including the cost of the mountain  guide, taxi 
fares, bus and train fares and hotel costs. As I think that this claim ought to have 
been accepted at the outset Im also awarding  8% simple interest
I think Mr D has been inconvenienced  by UKIs to pay the claim which  has been 
dragged out unnecessarily. So Im awarding  him £150 for the trouble caused as a 
result of the claim not being paid promptly and fairly.  
Ref: DRN34814833putting things right
UKI needs to put things right by paying:
the claim expenses listed including the cost of the mountain guide,  taxi fares, bus 
and train fares and hotel costs plus 8% simple  interest from the time the claim was 
submitted to the date of settlement+
half Mr Ds unused trek costs (£391.50) plus 8% simple interest  from the time the 
claim was submitted to the date of settlement+
£150 for the trouble  and upset caused.  
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and direct  U K Insurance Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined  above. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3481483