K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a loan. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 2001,  at the same time as taking out a joint secured loan. 
They applied for the loan and PPI policy in a branch. The loan was intended to be repayable  
over a 66-month term. The monthly loan repayment  was £54.58,  with the PPI costing an 
additional £5.66 making the total monthly repayment £60.24. The policy didnt attract  interest 
and could be cancelled  by either  party without  penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ms monthly loan repayment 
for up to 60 months in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 in the event of 
unemployment. 
Although a part of this complaint is about  Mrs M not being eligible for the PPI on this loan  
she was never covered  by this policy; the policy only covered Mr M. So, Im afraid  Mrs Ms 
situation in this context isnt relevant to whether  or not the PPI was mis-sold to them.
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a manager with, he says, no sickness  protection.  This 
means he would have been  entitled  only to the statutory minimum. Mr M has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. Halifax has sent us screenshots to show  that the loan 
account opened in 2001 and was closed in 2004.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all very carefully.  In summary, Mr 
and Mrs Ms representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ms representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs M 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN32491402The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
The policy contains an unfair contract  term that gives the business  the right to 
unilaterally vary the cover and premium.  Mr and Mrs M also say that the non-
disclosure of this term is a breach of the duty of utmost good faith; 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN32491403The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.  Ive also taken account  of relevant law in 
reaching my decision, including: the law relating to negligence, contract (including the 
express and implied  duty on professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care 
and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good faith; and the law relating to 
causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN32491404-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  this complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  I think it did this because there 
were two options on the loan application form. The form stated, clearly  in my view, that 
selecting the yes option for PPI would result  in the first named person on the loan being  
covered against  losing their job or being  unable to work. Mr M signed his name  in the yes 
option box and left the no option  box blank. I think the costs  involved were made clear also 
as the monthly  loan amount, the monthly PPI and the sum of these two were listed.
Mr and Mrs M both signed the application  form at the bottom. Taking  everything  into 
account, I think that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it 
out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
This was an advised sale which means Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs M. It seems Mr and Mrs M probably  cant remember  clearly 
what happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. 
This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting  in 2001. The adviser  had some  
limited information about  Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances, but there is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs M would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet their needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  Halifax considered 
whether Mr M (the policyholder) had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with enough  reasonable  care and skill. But while Im not 
persuaded Halifax did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was suitable  for Mr 
and Mrs M, I do still think its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
them. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  they would not have received any sick pay  
in respect of Mr M if he was unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits 
are likely to be limited  and they jointly only had moderate savings  they could fall back 
Ref: DRN32491405on. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs M manage the consequences were  
they unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax 
gave sufficient information about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to 
take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs M. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs M 
all of the information they needed about  the policy to make an informed decision about 
whether to follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN32491406Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs 
M. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether or 
not they would have  still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things better. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr 
and Mrs M have suffered  loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if 
Halifax had explained  things properly, Mr and Mrs M would have acted differently, or 
whether they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their loan payments in the event Mr M was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they may have made that decision based on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting might not have been exactly what  
they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  I 
also think the information Mr and Mrs M were given  about the cost and/or benefit was clear,  
given this was set out the agreement they were given. But the information about  other  
aspects of the policy, such as limitations and exclusions, might  not have been as clear as it 
should have been. Possibly the most significant  differences between what  Mr and Mrs M 
thought they had bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions known about or for which  
the policyholder  received advice, treatment  or counselling from any doctor  during the 
Ref: DRN3249140712 months before the start date and which recurred within 24 months of the start 
date; 
The policy contained some limitations on claims relating  to back  and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which him experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
and Mrs M for their joint loan should  the insured  risks have become a reality.  I also havent  
seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions 
 Mr M didnt  have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  
So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
M might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences were Mr M to be made redundant, 
or unable  to work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  
than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN32491408Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position  they would have been  in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying  for Mr M. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think this policy contains an unfair contract  term  allowing 
the business to unilaterally vary the cover and the premium. I accept Halifax shouldve  done 
more to clearly bring the contractual term about the insurers right to unilaterally vary the 
cover and premium to Mr and Mrs Ms attention. Im satisfied this was a significant  term and I 
think Mr and Mrs M would  have wanted  to know about this. Because Mr and Mrs M werent 
clearly told I dont think Halifax acted  fairly  and reasonably in this case. 
But even if Halifax had done more to highlight the term clearly to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think  
this wouldve  made a difference to their decision to buy the PPI. As Ive set out above,  Mr 
and Mrs M had good reasons to take out the policy. Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs M had 
the right to withdraw  from the policy at any time. So if any changes were proposed by the 
insurer, Mr and Mrs M had a reasonable amount  of time to consider if they wanted  to 
continue with the policy. 
So while I accept Halifax shouldve done more to bring this term to their attention,  for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think they wouldve been put off buying  the policy if 
Halifax had done  more. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN32491409and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3249140