K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy  alongside a credit card. 
background
Mrs W applied  for a credit card in 1994.  At the same  time she was sold PPI. 
Mrs W complained  that the PPI policy had been  mis-sold. Allianz  disagreed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form Mrs W completed  and signed in 1994. On 
the application form there is a section for PPI. It broadly sets out what the insurance  
provides and sets out the cost of the insurance  £0.64 per £100 of the outstanding  balance. I 
can see Mrs W has ticked to confirm she wanted to take PPI.
Overall I think  the PPI was presented as optional  and Mrs W would have reasonably  known 
she had a choice  about whether or not to take out PPI. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Allianz recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so I think its unlikely it 
did. So it didnt have  to check  if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs W got 
the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But overall Im satisfied that Mrs W chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like 
she wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - 
so it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. 
Mrs W has told us that she received some sick pay from her employer if she was unable to 
work because of an accident  or sickness. And Mrs W says she was living  at home  with her 
parents at the time.  So Mrs W says she didnt need the PPI. 
Ref: DRN37393602But the PPI would have paid 15% of the outstanding  monthly balance at the date of a 
successful claim  for accident,  sickness or unemployment per month. And this would have 
continued to be paid until either  Mrs W returned  to work or the initial  balance  was cleared. 
The benefits  would have paid out on top of any employee benefits Mrs W received. The 
policy also included life cover. So all things considered I think  the PPI provided a useful 
benefit and I dont think better information  about the policy would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
This means  that, even if Allianz didnt give Mrs W all the information it should have done 
when it sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs W has lost out as a result of anything  that 
Allianz did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments in response to our adjudicators opinion, including 
what she has said about her sick pay. But for the reasons above, these points dont change 
my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3739360