K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited delayed the repair  to 
their vehicle. 
background 
In October  2018 a road traffic accident left their vehicle damaged, so Mr and Mrs H made  a 
claim through their insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H had video footage of the accident and they sent this to Admiral within the first 
few days of their claim. It took Admiral around four months to send the footage and obtain an 
admission of liability from the third party insurer. Mr and Mrs H called around six times and 
sent several emails  during this period  to find out what was happening. Admiral explained it 
had experienced issues  with sending  the video footage  over to the third party insurer.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  with this delay, so they complained to Admiral. They added that 
they were unhappy  about:
being liable for the excess even though it was a non-fault claim
Admiral suggesting  that they use a third party accident management  company to deal 
with their claim, and
the approved  repairer not knowing that Mrs H was a named driver on the policy.
Admiral agreed that its communication  was poor and that it hadnt  been proactive enough in 
sending the video footage  to the third party insurer. Admiral  said it was up to Mr and Mrs H 
whether they wanted use the accident  management  company  and that the excess  was 
payable for all claims, regardless of fault. Admiral offered  Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation 
to put things right.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. They said the compensation wasnt  enough to cover  the stress they 
suffered and the amount  of chasing  they had to do. They also had to cancel two 
appointments with the approved repairer.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and asked Admiral to pay a further £75 compensation 
(making a total of £175) for causing  a delay to the repair.  Admiral  didnt reply so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for similar reasons as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
Admiral already admitted that it didnt provide the level of service Mr and Mrs H expect from 
their insurer   so I dont think whether it did something wrong is under dispute. However, Im 
not persuaded that Admiral has done  enough  to fairly put things right.
It took multiple calls and emails from Mr and Mrs H before Admiral took the appropriate 
steps to ensure the video  footage was sent.  And it seems  that Mr and Mrs H were  the ones 
being proactive  with the claim, rather than Admiral  who shouldve  made  an already difficult  
time easier  for their customers. Ive considered that Mr and Mrs H couldve sent their vehicle 
Ref: DRN39410082for repair in the interim,  but I can understand why they wouldve wanted the reassurance that 
the third party  insurer  had admitted liability before doing so. Ive also noted  that Mr and 
Mrs H continued to have  use of the vehicle  in the interim   albeit in a damaged condition.
In my view, the delay  caused by Admiral  was unreasonable and the £100 compensation it 
offered Mr and Mrs H doesnt fairly make up for the impact of Admirals poor service. I agree  
that an additional £75 is a fair way to put things right.
In regards to the additional complaint points raised by Mr and Mrs H, Im not persuaded that 
Admiral has acted unfairly. 
I cant see that Admiral has done anything wrong in suggesting the use of a third party 
accident claims company.  The content of the calls shows there was nothing untoward  in the 
way this was put to Mr and Mrs H and Im satisfied that Admiral provided an appropriate 
level of information  to allow them to make their own choice on how to proceed. Mr and Mrs H 
dont appear to have  suffered a detriment  and ended up deciding  to continue  their claim 
through Admiral  directly  anyway. 
Ive examined the policy document,  which is the contract between  Mr and Mrs H and 
Admiral. Under the terms of the policy, Admiral  explained  to Mr and Mrs H that theyd have 
to pay the excess  for all claims,  regardless of who is at fault. I dont think Admiral acted 
unfairly by doing  so. It appears the excess was waived after the third party insurer  admitted 
liability so I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out. 
I can understand why Mrs Hs first contact  with the repairer wouldve been frustrating as the 
repairer thought  she wasnt  authorised to discuss this policy.  It seems Admiral put this right 
as soon as Mrs H made it aware  by contacting the repairer straight away and updating its 
records.  
So I wont  be asking Admiral to do anything differently in relation to these additional 
complaint points. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H £75 
compensation in addition  to the £100 it has already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3941008