K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  a loan they took out with Firstplus Financial Group Plc. 
Theyre unhappy with the amount theyve been  charged and the way theyve been treated 
while theyve  been experiencing  financial difficulties. 
background 
Mr and Mrs R took out a loan with Firstplus Financial in 2007. The loan was for £100,000, 
plus the cost of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy,  and was to be repaid over 25 
years. Mr R has some health  issues which I understand impacted on his ability to work. The 
loan fell into arrears  in 2009 as the required repayments werent being made when due. The 
last repayment  was made to the account in May 2015 and the account is now in significant 
arrears. 
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  about  the way theyve been treated since  theyve been  unable to 
make the required repayments  to the loan. They refer to unfair  and excessive attempts to 
contact them  about the arrears on the account  and that court  action was taken when  
Firstplus Financial knew of Mr Rs health problems. Mr and Mrs R also believe theyve been 
charged too much. 
After complaining to Firstplus Financial Mr and Mrs R referred  their complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators set out why she didnt think that Firstplus Financial had treated Mrs and Mrs 
R unfairly and she didnt therefore  uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept  the 
adjudicators conclusions.
After further discussions  with Firstplus Financial, it made an offer to settle the complaint. In 
summary, Firstplus Financial explained that it accepts that Mr and Mrs R may not have fully 
appreciated the way in which their loan was intended to operate.  And it accepts Mr and Mrs 
R are disappointed with the service  theyve received and the time taken to resolve the 
complaint. Firstplus Financial offered to reduce  the outstanding balance on the account  by 
£23,060 and pay an additional £150 directly  to them. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the offer and as the complaint could not be resolved  informally it 
has now been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the offer that 
Firstplus Financial has made in this case is fair and reasonable and I do not consider there 
to be grounds to instruct Firstplus Financial to do anything  more than it has already offered. 
Firstplus Financial has now offered to reduce  the outstanding balance on the account  by 
£23,060 and pay an additional £150 to Mr and Mrs R. It says it has done this after 
considering Mr and Mrs Rs particular  circumstances and also acknowledges the time that 
the complaint  has been outstanding.  Mr and Mrs R have set out their reasons for not 
accepting the offer and Ive considered these in detail. In summary, Mr and Mrs R appear  to 
be unhappy with the level of detail  and explanation  around how the offer has been 
calculated. Because  of this, they dont  believe  they can fairly  assess the offer.  
Ref: DRN31928492Firstplus Financial has explained how the offer has been calculated  and whats  been 
considered when arriving at the amount of £23,060.  The details and breakdown  of the offer 
have been shared with Mr and Mrs R. Im satisfied the explanation is sufficient to 
demonstrate what factors have been considered and included  in the calculation. The 
calculation essentially means that a lower  interest  rate has been  applied to the loan since it 
began. The £23,060 is a refund of the difference between what Mr and Mrs R were asked to 
pay and what Firstplus  Financial are willing to charge  them now,  with an additional element 
of interest added to that. 
I note that Mr and Mrs R have not been  making  repayments to their loan and an amount of 
suspended interest  is therefore due on the account.  Firstplus Financials offer accounts  for 
the suspended interest  and reduces the amount owed. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R remain  
unhappy with the offer but Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Ive also considered how Firstplus Financial acted  when it, and its representatives, contacted  
Mr and Mrs R to seek repayment  of the account.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs R have been 
experiencing financial difficulties but Firstplus Financial is still entitled to make reasonable 
attempts to contact  them when repayments have not been  made  to the account. Having 
considered how Firstplus Financial acted,  Im not persuaded it has acted unreasonably in its 
attempts to contact  Mr and Mrs R and discuss how the loan was to be repaid. 
Mr and Mrs R have specifically referred  to their daughter being taken to court by Firstplus  
Financial but its my understanding that she was there representing Mr and Mrs R. Having 
considered the account at that time,  I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Firstplus  Financial 
to have taken  the action  it did against  Mr and Mrs R. As a result, I dont think it is necessary 
for Firstplus Financial to compensate Mr and Mrs Rs daughter  in the way they have 
requested. 
my final decision
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R will remain unhappy with the outcome here but my final decision 
is that Firstplus Financial Group Plc should make a payment of £23,060 to Mr and Mrs Rs 
account and pay an additional £150 directly to them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019. If the decision  is not accepted it will 
not be binding  on Firstplus Financial and it will not be obliged  to maintain the offer.  
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3192849