K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage and the bank  recommended  they also take out 
PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr A only. It cost just under £38 a month 
and would have  paid out about £669 a month  for up to two years  if Mr A had made a 
successful claim.
Mr and Mrs A say they both had good  sick pay at the time and didnt know theyd  bought the 
PPI. They  say it wasnt discussed at all. Mr and Mrs A think the bank was wrong  to sell them  
the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and Ive set out below  my reasons for 
this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision  on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely  
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs As main  concern  seems to be that they didnt know they had the PPI. Halifax  
doesnt have all the paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt surprising  
given the sale took place  nearly 15 years ago and the mortgage ended  in 2006. I wouldnt 
expect either  Mr and Mrs A or Halifax to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what  this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr and Mrs A 
were given a choice about buying the PPI. I can see that it was set up to cover  Mr A only,  
and the banks internal records show it was asking the sort of questions  Id expect when it 
was checking  to see if the PPI was suitable  for Mr A. That does suggest that a conversation 
took place about the PPI at the time and it was tailored to suit Mr and Mrs As needs, 
although I can understand why Mr and Mrs A no longer remember  this. I think  its also likely  
Halifax sent the relevant literature to Mr and Mrs A after the sale. I think  this would have 
been before  the PPI actually started,  as theres  normally several weeks delay between 
buying PPI and cover starting, which is when the mortgage begins. Thats what Halifax  
normally did, and I cant see any reason why it would treat Mr and Mrs A differently.
Halifax explained that the mortgage was provided  by a building society that is now part of the 
Bank of Scotland group. So the mortgage payment and PPI payments  would  have been  
Ref: DRN33377492collected separately. I think theyd have shown on Mr and Mrs As current account as 
separate payments too. I think that if Mr and Mrs A didnt recognise the payments they could 
have queried this, but they havent said they did that.
Ive also looked  at Mr and Mrs As mortgage offer. That doesnt say Mr and Mrs A had to 
have PPI. It does remind  them that they should consider how to make mortgage payments  if 
their circumstances change and that PPI is available  but it doesnt say they must  have it.
Overall, I think Halifax most likely gave Mr and Mrs A enough information for them to know  
they had the PPI, even though I do understand why theyve forgotten  this over the years.
Halifax says it advised Mr and Mrs A to buy the PPI. This means  that it needed to ensure 
that it met their needs. From what I know of Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time, I think  
the policy was suitable for Mr A.
-Mr A was eligible  for the policy, and it doesnt look like he would have been affected by 
any of the significant  limitations  or exclusions of the cover,  such as those relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. 
-Mr A says he would  have received some sick pay if he couldnt work. But this policy 
would pay on top of these benefits and for considerably longer than Mr A would get his 
full salary. A mortgage is a big commitment, and I think  Mr and Mrs A would have had 
some use for the policy.
-Halifax needed to give Mr and Mrs A enough  information for them  to make an informed 
choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when  they were  told what the PI 
would cost. But I do think theyd  have known it cost something. The policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think  when Mr and Mrs A first 
knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
-Its possible that Halifax  could  have provided  more information about the policy,  
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr A wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused them 
to change their minds about  buying the policy. So they arent  any worse off as a result of 
anything Halifax may have done  wrong. So theres nothing  that Halifax needs to do to 
put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3337749