K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  because  Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has paid only part of a claim 
under his travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr L bought a travel insurance policy, provided  by IPA, online. He paid £45.85  for the policy.
Mr L was due to travel  abroad but, unfortunately, was admitted to hospital and had to cancel
his trip. So, he made a claim  under his policy with IPA.
IPA considered the claim and said Mr L hadnt  told it about acne rosacea and his cholesterol
levels when he bought the policy and, therefore, he had only paid 45.98%  of the premium  he
should have. As such, IPA said it would only pay 45.98% of Mr Ls claim. When calculating
the claim settlement,  IPA deducted a refund of £148.52 which Mr L had already received
from his airline, as well as an excess of £100.  This meant Mr L received  a claim payment of
£63.69 from IPA.
Unhappy, Mr L complained to IPA before  bringing the matter to the Financial Ombudsman
Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said she thought  IPA was entitled to
apply a proportionate reduction  to Mr Ls claim payment, but she didnt think  IPA had
calculated this correctly  and asked it to pay Mr L a further £28.55.
IPA didnt agree, and Mr L disputed that he had high cholesterol, so the complaint was 
passed to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr Ls complaint in July 2020. In it, I 
said:
Mr L was asked questions about his health  when he bought this policy. So, I think  the
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant to
the circumstances of his complaint, and I think its fair and reasonable to apply the principles
set out in this legislation to Mr Ls claim.
CIDRA places a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to misrepresent  facts which
an insurer asks about when an insurance  policy is sold.
When Mr L bought  this policy online,  he was asked the following question:
Within the last 5 years  has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any
medical condition  (medical  or psychological  disease, sickness, condition,  illness  or 
injury) that has required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery,  tests 
or investigations?
I think this question is clear and specific, and Mr L answered no. He was therefore  able to
proceed to buy the policy he did at a cost of £45.85.
But, IPA says, in response to this question, Mr L should have answered  yes. Mr L would
then have been taken to a further  set of medical screening questions which would have
included a question  prompting Mr L to declare he had been  prescribed medication for acne
rosacea and cholesterol levels.  Mr L then wouldnt have  been sold the policy he held but
Ref: DRN37411002would have been sold a different policy at a higher cost.
Ive considered whether I think Mr L took reasonable care in answering the 5 year  question
set out above  in the way he did. The medical evidence  which  Ive seen from Mr Ls GP says
Mr L had been  prescribed medication  for acne rosacea in the 5 years before the policy was
purchased. Mr Ls GP has also said Mr L was prescribed  cholesterol medication to cover a q
risk score of 15.2%.
An insurer  is entitled to decide what level of risk it is willing to insure, and under this policy,
IPA only wishes to insure policyholders who havent been prescribed medication for a
medical condition  within the previous five years. So, while  Mr L may only have taken acne
rosacea medication  infrequently, this was still something IPA wanted  to know about  in
response to the question  he was asked.
I understand Mr L says he doesnt have high cholesterol. Mr L says he was prescribed
medication as a precaution, and his GPs comments on the medical  certificate seem  to
support this. However,  IPA isnt saying Mr L should have told it he had high cholesterol  IPA
is saying Mr L should have told it he was prescribed medication for his cholesterol  levels.
Ive considered the wording of the 5 year question Mr L was asked, and the timing of his
prescription for cholesterol levels in the three  months  before  the policy was taken out.
Having done so, I think Mr L should  reasonably have answered yes to the question  he was
asked with regard  to his cholesterol medication.
In summary  therefore, I think  Mr L made a misrepresentation under CIDRA  in relation to
prescription medication for acne rosacea and cholesterol levels.  This means IPA is entitled
to apply the relevant remedy available to it under CIDRA.
In this situation, where IPA would have charged a higher premium if it had known about
Mr Ls medical history, IPA is entitled to proportionately reduce  the amount it pays  for his
claim. I understand  Mr L was admitted to hospital with an unrelated medical  condition  but
IPAs remedy under CIDRA applies regardless  of whether or not Mr Ls claim relates  to his
undeclared medical history.
CIDRA sets out a formula for calculating what the proportionate reduction of a claim should
be. This is the premium actually paid divided by the premium that would have been charged
x 100.
Mr L paid a premium of £45.85. Mr L said IPA would have charged him a total premium of
£84.88, and this is what our investigator based her calculations on too. But this isnt correct.
The premium IPA would have charged  Mr L if it had known about his prescription medication
for acne  rosacea and cholesterol  levels is £99.70. I think it would have been helpful if IPA
had clearly set this out to both Mr L and to this service from the outset  but, nonetheless, Im
satisfied IPA has calculated the proportionate reduction of Mr Ls claim correctly
(£45.85/£99.70 x 100 = 45.98%).
For the avoidance of doubt, Im also satisfied that the rest of IPAs  claim calculation is
correct too. The terms of Mr Ls policy, like most  - if not all - travel  insurance policies, only
cover losses  which  are irrecoverable from elsewhere. So, IPA was entitled  to deduct the
refund Mr L received from his airline  before  calculating what  the proportionate reduction of
the claim would  be. IPA was also entitled to deduct  the applicable excess under Mr Ls policy
before paying  him a claim payment.
Ref: DRN37411003Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L but I dont think IPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably here,
and I dont intend to ask it to do anything further.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L responded to my provisional decision,  but IPA didnt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr L said hed accept the extra payment which  our 
investigator recommended, even  though  he felt his claim should be paid in full. However, as 
I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think our investigators calculations  were 
correct. 
Im satisfied that the proportion of Mr Ls claim which is payable  by IPA is 45.98%, based on 
the premium of £99.70 (and not £84.88) which it would have charged  him if it had known  
about his prescription  medication for acne rosacea and cholesterol levels.  
This means  I dont  think IPA has acted incorrectly and I wont  be asking it to pay Mr L 
anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3741100