K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about the prices at which Swissquote Ltd executed  his contract for 
differences (CFD) trades.
background
Mr K had a CFD account  with Swissquote. He had a number  of short  positions  on the 
Euro/Hungarian Forint (EURHUF) currency pair. So hed profit if the value of the Euro  fell, 
and lose if it went up.
On the morning of 23 July 2018,  the EURHUF  moved up and Mr Ks account fell into margin  
deficit. This meant he no longer  had enough  money deposited to support his positions, and 
Swissquote closed  them.  
Some of Mr Ks trades were  closed at a price  of just over 333, and he complained - saying 
the market price of EURHUF at the time was in fact around 326.
One of our investigators  looked into things and didnt think  Swissquote had done anything 
wrong. He said Swissquote had set prices based  on rates it received from its liquidity 
provider and other third party sources. And he said currency prices  can vary from provider to 
provider, so overall he didnt think the prices Mr K had received were unfair.
I issued a provisional decision saying I thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. I said:
Mr K was trading CFDs based  on the EURHUF currency pair. This allowed Mr K to 
speculate on movements  in EURHUF, but the CFDs themselves  were provided by 
(and the prices  of them set by) Swissquote.
Swissquote says it gets its prices  from one liquidity provider, its parent company which 
Ill call S. In its terms of business  it says of the way it prices CFDs:
The prices that we quote are determined by us and usually represent  a mark-up or 
mark-down on inter-bank dealing or market rates (consequently our prices  may not be 
the best available at the time you place an order with us).
Ive thought very carefully about the price  Swissquote provided  to Mr K, and at which it 
executed his trades. I think this case is finely balanced.
Im satisfied Swissquote (or S) would be setting  the price on which  Mr K would be 
trading, and that its price might be different to prices  available  elsewhere. Swissquote  
does indicate  this price  would  generally reflect the market rate, allowing for a mark-up. 
The size of that mark-up  may vary for a number  of reasons. 
But theres a potential for a conflict of interest inherent in an arrangement where 
Swissquote and its parent  company  set the prices  at which it will trade with Mr K, and 
take the other side of those trades.  So I think its particularly  important  for Swissquote 
to be able to demonstrate it has managed that conflict by offering  prices that fairly 
reflect those  in the underlying market.
Establishing the market  rate for a currency pair isnt quite as straightforward as it is 
for some other financial instruments. The currency markets  arent  centralised  and 
Ref: DRN37205812theres no accepted  single trading venue where transactions  take place. But I dont 
think that means any price Swissquote offered would be fair. As Ive mentioned, given 
the nature  of the relationship between Swissquote and Mr K, Swissquote was in a 
position to both set the prices to be traded at and also to potentially profit from its 
dealings with Mr K. So I think  it needs to be able to demonstrate it has offered Mr K a 
fair price and has paid due regard to his interests and treated him fairly.
At its broadest,  the underlying market could  be said to be made up of all other market 
participants trading  a particular security. And Ive not seen anything to suggest anyone 
 be they a CFD provider,  inter-bank dealer or other  financial institution  was trading 
EURHUF at prices above about 326 when Swissquote executed Mr Ks trades.
As Ive said,  establishing the true market price  for a currency  pair isnt an exact 
science. But in considering what the market rate for EURHUF was that day Ive given 
particular weight to the prices  traded  in the inter-bank market  where a significant 
proportion of spot foreign exchange  trading is carried out.
The highest  price recorded for EURHUF that day in the inter-bank market  was 
326.345. Allowing  for a modest mark-up  and Swissquotes latitude  to set its own prices 
for its CFDs, Im not persuaded a price  of 333, above the highest  rate traded in the 
inter-bank market,  was fair.
I acknowledge that the difference here is a matter of a few percentage points. But at 
the time it executed Mr Ks trades the spread between Swissquotes  EURHUF bid and 
offer prices  was particularly wide. And the eventual execution prices were  higher  
albeit not by much  than any other  quotes Ive seen for this currency pair at that time.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think it is important  Swissquote can 
demonstrate why its prices are different (and,  for Mr K, worse)  than those in the 
underlying market. But it hasnt been  able to describe how much of the spread was 
made up of its own mark-up, what sources  it or S use to arrive at the prices it quoted, 
or provided  any other third party evidence to explain why the prices  it was quoting  
were fair.
While I accept that S (the source of Swissquotes price feed) is a separate  entity,  
Swissquotes obligation is to Mr K and I think it ought to be able to demonstrate that it 
has treated him fairly and ensured it hasnt put its or Ss interests ahead of Mr Ks. At 
the moment Im not satisfied its done so. Specifically,  Im not currently persuaded 
quoting prices higher  than 326.345  (the highest  quote in the inter-bank market) was 
fair or paid sufficient  regard for Mr Ks interests.
So I think Swissquote should credit Mr Ks account as if all those trades it closed at 
prices higher  than 326.345 had closed at that price. Mr K has said that hes also 
suffered consequential losses because he wasnt able to open new trades due to the 
size of his losses  on these positions.  I dont,  however, think  Swissquote needs to 
compensate him any further for these potential losses. The currency  markets are 
volatile. And I cant say for sure how much, if anything, Mr K might  have made  on any 
subsequent trades.  Its quite possible  he would  in fact have suffered further losses  had 
his bets on the market  direction proved incorrect.
Ref: DRN37205813Having said that, Im satisfied that suffering larger losses than he ought to have done, 
and the impact that had on his account,  will have been troubling and upsetting  for Mr 
K. So I think Swissquote should  pay him a further  £100 in light of that.
Mr K replied  to say he accepted my provisional  decision. Swissquote responded and said:
While  Swissquote executes  its trades  with its parent company, S itself has a panel  of 
liquidity providers from which it sources its prices.  Swissquote  independently  
monitors the prices it gets from S to ensure theyre  fair and compares them  to a third 
party pricing stream.
Swissquote is required  to take reasonable steps to obtain  the best possible result  
when executing orders. It isnt required to obtain the best price  compared to other 
providers. Providing such a guarantee isnt possible, and isnt something the 
regulator requires  it to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to depart  from my provisional conclusions,  and Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered the points Swissquote has made carefully. And I agree  that it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  it to match or better the prices other providers offer.  But what it does 
have to do is take reasonable steps to ensure it gave  Mr K the best result,  and demonstrate 
that its done so. It also needs to take account  of Mr Ks interests  and treat him fairly.
In my view, Swissquote still hasnt  shown it put Mr Ks interests ahead of its own (or Ss) and 
that it gave him best execution as set out in the regulators  rules. I accept that its possible  
Swissquotes price may have been higher than other providers,  but it hasnt persuaded me 
that the prices  it gave  Mr K were a fair reflection of the underlying  market  at the time.
What I have seen  is that this was an arrangement where there was the potential  for 
Swissquote and S to gain from Mr Ks losses. And that the price it executed his trades at 
was above the prices  quoted or traded by any other market  participant that Im aware of. 
Swissquote has detailed  the steps  it takes  to ensure  its prices are fair, but it hasnt explained 
or evidenced that the prices it used  to close Mr Ks trades in particular were  fair. Overall I 
remain of the view that Swissquote  hasnt been able to show it treated Mr K fairly in the way 
it executed his trades, and so it should compensate  him for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Swissquote Ltd must:
Credit Mr Ks account to put it in the position it would have been in had any EURHUF 
trades which closed  on 23 July 2018 above 326.345 instead been closed at exactly 
326.345.
Pay him £100 for the trouble its caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ref: DRN37205814Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3720581