K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC blocked a payment he was trying to make  and 
also complains about Barclays response  to his complaint.
background
Mr G tried to make  a payment for £2,450  and had earlier made a payment of £50 to the 
same person. He says the payment was blocked  and so he contacted Barclays.  He also 
says Barclays actions  caused him stress  and inconvenience and would  like to be 
compensated. Mr G says he received a letter from Barclays telling him he was content with 
how it dealt with his complaint  which  was wrong and that Barclays shouldve called him to 
tell him the payment had been declined.
Barclays says it acted  in line with account  terms and conditions  where  it had fraud concerns. 
But it also says it authorised the payment 19 minutes after Mr G tried to first make it. 
Barclays says it sent Mr G a standard complaint letter and doesnt believe any compensation 
is justified.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Barclays  had dealt fairly with it. 
She thought  Barclays  had acted in line with the account terms and conditions but the 
transaction had been authorised a very short time after it was blocked.  The adjudicator 
thought it was up to Barclays  if it chooses  to call customers in these circumstances and that 
Barclays had explained the letter it sent was a standard  response  to the complaint.
Mr G doesnt accept  that view and maintains Barclays shouldve  called  him and he was 
caused inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr G will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at Mr Gs account terms and conditions  which I think  he wouldve agreed to when 
the account was opened.  And Im satisfied that in line with those  account  terms and 
conditions, Barclays is entitled to block an account or transaction where it has fraud  or 
security concerns. I have  no doubt thats what happened here as Mr G was trying to transfer 
a large sum of money to a payee  he had set up shortly before. So I dont  think  Barclays 
made a mistake by applying its fraud  measures. I appreciate  that any fraud  measures can 
cause a customer a level of inconvenience  but Im satisfied that they are in place to protect a 
customers money and to ensure they are not the victim of fraud.
I can see that Mr G contacted Barclays and within a very short period of time of about 19 
minutes, the transaction was approved. So I dont think Mr G was caused a significant  
amount of inconvenience  or distress and Im satisfied that having listened to the calls 
between the parties  Barclays  tried to assist Mr G. I appreciate Mr G says Barclays shouldve  
called him when the transaction was first declined .But Im satisfied that its up to a business 
when exercising its commercial judgement to decide  upon  such  matters and not something I 
can fairly interfere in. And I understand that a business may not wish to do so for security  
reasons.
Ref: DRN39161622I accept that Barclays response  letter to Mr G didnt contain a great deal of information  about 
his complaint. But Im satisfied that it was a standard letter  and in any event Barclays  had 
explained why the payment had been blocked  during the call. And I also think  Barclays  
wouldve reasonably  thought it had been  resolved as it had unblocked the payment and 
allowed it to be made.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  hasnt  acted unfairly here or made  a mistake.  For those 
reasons I cant fairly order it to pay the compensation Mr G would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3916162