K821x#15complaint
Miss V and Mrs V have complained about  the way CIS General Insurance  Limited dealt with 
a claim Miss V - as a named driver - made under Mrs Vs car insurance policy. 
background
Miss V made two claims under Mrs Vs policy to CIS: in February and March 2018.  
Miss V made a number of complaints to CIS - the majority relate  to the way it dealt with the 
March claim.  
CIS issued  a series  of replies to Miss Vs complaints. It upheld  part of Miss Vs complaints 
and paid Mrs V a total of £300  compensation for its delay and poor service. 
Our investigator thought CIS hadnt  done  enough  to put things right. He thought CIS was 
responsible for a delay of approximately six weeks in getting Mrs Vs car repaired. He 
recommended CIS pay Miss V an additional  £350 to reflect the inconvenience and distress 
its delay had caused. 
Both CIS and Miss V didnt agree. CIS said it felt it had done enough to resolve Miss Vs 
complaints. Miss V said the additional £350  isnt enough to compensate her. 
As both parties disagree, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  relates to complaints which CIS replied to up to September  2018.
As the investigator  has set out the chronology of events in his findings, I dont intend to 
repeat it in the same level of detail in my decision. 
In May 2018  CIS replied  to Miss Vs complaints.  In summary these were:
The paintwork  repair following  the February  2018 incident wasnt satisfactory.
CIS provided a poor service while dealing with the March 2018  claim and caused  
undue delay.
Miss V believed Mrs Vs car may be a write off. She didnt believe it was reasonable 
for CIS to decide it was repairable.
Miss V was unhappy  with the way the approved repairer and salvage agent dealt with 
her.
Miss V said she was repaying  finance for the car but unable to use it  she had to 
pay to be added  to her husbands  car insurance  policy.
CIS asked  Miss V to provide the information  shed received from a dealership  garage  
regarding the poor paintwork and said it would consider  this further  for her. It said the 
approved repairer  said they werent  prepared  to deal with Miss V. Miss V said they were 
rude to her. CIS said it couldnt take sides without  further evidence   but it gave feedback  to 
the repairer. 
Ref: DRN35267942CIS acknowledged that it could have done  things  better when it arranged for a salvage agent 
to collect Miss Vs car for an engineer to inspect it. But it said an inspection  was necessary 
due to Miss Vs view that the car wasnt repairable. It apologised for any confusion caused 
by the agent when it collected Miss Vs car  as Miss V said she was told her car was being  
salvaged. It accepted that the engineer took too long to inspect Mrs Vs car. 
However, an independent engineer reported that Mrs Vs car was repairable. Miss V said 
shed paid a deposit at a garage as shed booked her car in for repair.  Because  CIS caused  
a delay, she said she lost the deposit. CIS said if Miss V could provide proof of her loss of 
deposit, it would consider  reimbursing her. 
CIS said it could still arrange for an approved repairer in the area Miss V had recently  moved 
to  to repair  her car. This was about 100 miles away.  And if the repairer  found  on further 
inspection that her car had further  damage  that made it uneconomical to repair, it would 
reconsider the claim.
While the car was being repaired at an approved repairer, CIS explained that Miss V was 
entitled to a courtesy car for the duration of the repairs.
For the delay  in collecting and recovering Mrs Vs car, CIS paid Mrs V  as the main  driver of 
the car - £175 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
I think on balance CIS did enough to resolve Miss Vs complaints here. The independent 
engineers report  shows that  including additional claimed damage which  Miss V later 
complained about - the estimated cost to repair Mrs Vs car was less than half the amount it 
was worth.  So I see no reason why CIS should  have considered dealing with the claim as a 
total loss at this stage.  
In June 2018 CIS replied to the following complaints:
A salvage agent caused further  damage when it collected and delivered Mrs Vs 
car to Miss Vs new address.
CIS caused further delay which delayed the repair  of Mrs Vs car.
Miss V was unhappy  with a call she had with an agent at CIS.
CIS upheld  Miss Vs complaints. It said it had no proof the salvage agent  had caused  further  
damage  but it gave  the benefit of doubt and agreed to cover  the costs  to repair the 
additional damage. This is because the independent  engineer couldnt say if the damage 
had been caused by the salvage agent or not.
CIS said it took longer than expected to authorise  the repairs. But it said that during this time 
it needed a copy  of the V5 registration  document and this contributed to the delay. I can see 
Miss V sent the document a few times   but CIS wasnt  able to read it and so asked for it to 
be sent again.
It agreed its agent provided  Miss V with incorrect information in a call. But CIS said the agent 
realised her mistake and made arrangements to update Miss V with the correct information.
For its failings, CIS apologised and paid Mrs V £125 compensation. 
In September  2018 CIS replied to the following  complaints:
Ref: DRN35267943Miss V was unhappy  with the courtesy car provided while Mrs Vs car was being  
repaired.
CIS failed to call her back in July 2018  as agreed.
Miss V was unhappy  that she had to pay an excess and;
There was a delay  in repairing and returning Mrs Vs car to Miss V.
CIS said a standard courtesy car was available  for Miss V in line with the policy terms. As a 
goodwill gesture, CIS provided a like for like vehicle  and for beyond the duration of the 
repairs. 
The approved repairer said the courtesy car was damaged while in Miss Vs possession. So 
CIS said it was reasonable for it to ask Miss V to pay an additional £100 as the excess  due 
to damage to the courtesy car. CIS has since  provided proof by way of a parking notice that 
the hire car was subject to a parking  fine while in the care of Miss V. 
Although Miss V said CIS didnt warn her about the excess, it recorded the initial  call it had 
with Miss V when she reported the incident in March 2018 and it said it told her the excess 
amount then. 
CIS agreed  to extend car hire until 2 September 2018  even  though Mrs Vs car was ready 
for collection from the repairer  on 8 August 2018. This was to allow  Miss V time to pay the 
excess which was correctly due. So CIS didnt uphold Miss Vs complaints. 
Miss V reported the incident  at the end of March 2018. Mrs Vs car was repaired in August 
2018. So it took five months  for the repairs to take place. I dont think CIS is responsible  for 
all of the delays  here.  It wasnt  aware that Miss V had moved  address which was over 100 
miles away  and this had an effect on the approved repairer it instructed and contributed  to 
some delay. CIS asked  Mrs V to provide a copy of the V5 registration document  on 3 May 
2018. This wasnt provided until 14 June 2018  by Miss V. 
I appreciate that both CIS and Miss V disagree  on the investigators recommendation to pay 
Miss V a further £350 compensation.  However, I think  the overall effect of CISs delays 
meant Mrs Vs car could have been  repaired  about six weeks earlier. 
CIS has gone some way to provide compensation for its poor service and delay. But I dont  
think its enough. Taking into account the fact that CIS has already paid a total of £300 
compensation to Mrs V, of which part of it relates  to delay, I think  CIS should increase the 
amount its paid to reflect  the inconvenience caused by its delay  of a month and a half. 
Miss V has explained that she had access to her husbands car for a very short period of 
time - and Mrs V had to obtain alternative  insurance  by being added  to a relatives car 
insurance policy in order to have access to a vehicle.
I know that during  this period Miss V went through  a very difficult  time and loss in her 
personal life. So I understand that dealing with this claim  especially when things went 
wrong  will have added to what was already an upsetting time. 
Its reasonable to expect  a degree of inconvenience  when dealing  with a claim. Unfortunately 
this is inevitable. Dealing  with a claim isnt something that happens every day. So Ive taken 
a proportionate and even  handed approach in deciding a fair level of compensation for CISs 
poor handling of the claim.  
Ref: DRN35267944And I think an additional £350 compensation is overall a fair amount. This sum  along with 
the compensation CIS had paid for its delay   comes to approximately £10 a day for the 
period of time Miss V wasnt able to access a car. 
Miss V has told us that Mrs V hasnt cashed the previous cheques totalling  £300 so if Mrs V 
wants to accept them, she will need to contact CIS to ask them to resend them and cancel 
any expired cheques. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs V and Miss Vs complaint. I require CIS to pay 
Miss V £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. This is in 
addition to the £300 its already paid Mrs V  the policyholder and main  driver. 
CIS General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs V and Miss V accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V and Miss V 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3526794