K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited significantly increased the cost of his 
private medical insurance policy  after he moved house a short  distance.
background
Mr F held a private medical insurance  policy with BUPA.  Shortly  before it was due to renew, 
BUPA wrote  to him to say that his premium  would be increasing by 56%.  He asked BUPA  
why this was the case. BUPA explained the reasons, including that he had moved house. It 
said that his new location had accounted for an increase of over 40% in the premium.
Mr F objected that he had only moved a distance of about four miles. BUPA said that he had 
nonetheless moved  across the boundary into a new rating area and this was more 
expensive than his previous area.
Mr F was unhappy at BUPAs response.  He referred his complaint to us. He said that he 
would be continuing  to use the same  hospitals  and doctors he had used when at his 
previous address. He considered the increase to be unfair.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that BUPA had calculated his new premium fairly.
Mr F didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. He felt the increase following such a short move 
was unfair.  He explained that he had recently been  diagnosed with a serious condition and 
he believed  BUPA was simply trying  to get rid of him as an unwanted customer.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is an area in which we dont generally interfere.
In this case, BUPA has explained  to Mr F the causes of the increase and, in particular, the 
amount which  is attributable to his change of location. It is common for private  health  
insurers to charge more  to people living in certain  areas to reflect  the higher level of claims 
and/or cost of treatment  in that area. BUPA has provided evidence of its risk ratings for 
Mr Fs old and new address. I cant share this information with Mr F because it is 
commercially sensitive.  However, I have checked it and am satisfied that BUPA  has applied 
the correct rating to Mr Fs premium. I am satisfied it has calculated  his overall premium 
fairly and accurately. 
I appreciate it will be very frustrating for Mr F that such a short move has, in itself,  caused his 
premium to increase  by over 40%. But as BUPA has explained, he has actually crossed the 
boundary into a new rating area.  And while Mr F might argue that he is still using the same  
medical facilities that he was using before, I cant reasonably require BUPA  to offer him 
Ref: DRN34119832bespoke underwriting. Instead, he is now subject to the rating which  applies to his new area 
as would be any other policyholder who moves into that area.  
I sympathise with Mr F who has sadly been  diagnosed with a serious  condition  for which  he 
requires treatment. But Im satisfied that BUPA  has acted fairly and the increase  in his 
premium is nothing to do with the claims he has made, or is likely to make, under the policy 
as a result  of his diagnosis.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3411983