K820x#14complaint
Ms T is unhappy about the way HSBC  UK Bank Plc has dealt with her.
background
Ms T is unhappy about the way HSBC  dealt with her including  when she called  its mortgage  
collections team on 17 April 2018. And she says it called  her a number of times  about her 
mortgage arrears and had an incorrect contact number in a letter  of 24 April 2018.  
HSBS said in its final response that the call on 17 April wasnt handled as effectively and in 
the manner it wouldve  expected. On one occasion it had asked her to call and she had 
called it on three occasions.  Apart from that it hadnt called her as suggested.  It apologised 
that its letter had detailed an incorrect contact number. It had credited £100  into Ms Ts bank 
account for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Ms T had previously  complained to HSBC  in May 2017  about the information she 
was given about her mortgage arrears. Final responses were given and she hadnt 
referred them to us within the required  six month deadline, so we cannot comment on 
these issues here.
HSBC has acknowledged that the phone call on 17 April 2018  wasnt  handled 
effectively. Having  listened to the call its clear  the parties are both at odds in respect 
of the information given. This call couldve been handled better. The calls Ms T says 
HSBC made to her which  shes  unhappy  about cannot be traced.  So theres 
therefore nothing  more he can do about them.
HSBC accept a contact number in a letter it sent was incorrect.  
Its clear Ms T was frustrated by these issues with HSBC.  The £100  compensation 
HSBC has already paid her for this is fair.
Ms T remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She says that £100  
compensation isnt enough. She wants at least £200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
HSBC accepts the call on 17 April 2018  wasnt handled effectively or in the manner it 
wouldve expected.  Its apologised  for this and the fact that a letter on 24 April 2018 
contained an incorrect contact number.
HSBC has also outlined  the call it made  to Ms T and her three  calls to it. I cannot see that 
theres anything to show any other calls were  made  to her by HSBC  as she has suggested.
Overall I accept that HSBC couldve dealt  with Ms T better on occasions.  But HSBC  has 
rightly acknowledged  its failings. I have no doubt Ms T was caused some  inconvenience and 
Ref: DRN30196562distress by what happened which warrants a payment of some  compensation. Ms T says 
she would  like at least £200  for this. But I think that would be too much in this case. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think the sum of 
£100 compensation HSBC has already paid her is fair. And I cannot  reasonably  require 
HSBC to pay her any more as she would like.
Overall, although I understand Ms Ts frustration, I dont see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3019656