K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) applied charges to his account,  reported those to his
credit file and didnt remove that information in a timely way after theyd promised to do so.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 8 November  2019. Ive attached a copy  to this 
decision. It set out my provisional conclusions. Neither Mr H nor TSB have responded to my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
Neither party have  sent any new evidence or made any new points. So theres  nothing  
before me which changes  my conclusions and I dont see any reason to alter my view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39908252Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr H complains TSB Bank plc (TSB)  applied charges to his account, reported those  to his credit file 
and didnt remove  that information in a timely way after theyd  promised to do so.
background
Mr H brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy  with the response from TSB to his initial 
complaint and their later review and reopening of it.
Our investigator issued two views and found TSB dealt with the first complaint point about the 
charges fairly  quickly. On Mr Hs second point  that the failings of TSB had resulted  in increased 
payments on his mortgage as lenders refused to offer him better rates due to the late payments, and 
that TSB wrongly reported a late payment to his file  she couldnt fairly say TSB were incorrect in 
reporting the arrears. She thought TSB was obliged  to reflect any arrears on a customers credit file 
and, as Mr H had gone  into an unarranged  overdraft which wasnt cleared  for three months, she 
couldnt say they were incorrect to report that, or that the arrears were  reported in error. 
But in both views she partially upheld the complaint as she thought there had been  failings in service 
to Mr H and recommended TSB pay him £150 compensation to recognise the time and effort hed put 
in to get an answer  to his complaint over a period of eight months,  including all the calls hed made.
Mr H accepted the view and the investigators  suggested settlement. But TSB didnt. They said Mr Hs 
compliant had been reopened when  he asked on 26 October 2018 and an acknowledgement letter  
had been sent to him. TSB disputed theyd failed  to make  a call back to Mr H as promised or that they 
were wrong not to refer him to a manager when  he called on 10 May 2019.  And said once their final 
letter in response to a complaint has been sent  as it was here on 3 October 2018 - there was no set 
timescale  and no regulations - for sending  their further response or returning customers  calls. They 
didnt think an error had been made as they were following their process  for reopened  complaints and 
it was Mr Hs choice to reopen and wait for a response rather than refer the complaint to this service.
Our investigator told TSB her recommendation  wasnt based  on whether the complaint was reopened 
on 26 October 2018, but rather Mr H had to wait so long to have his complaint reviewed again.  She 
agreed with Mr H that his complaint could have been resolved with TSB and he wouldnt have felt the 
need to come  to this service if hed had a response within  a reasonable  timeframe.  
As it still didnt  agree, TSB asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant  know exactly whats 
happened, Ive decided whats more likely  to have happened, at the time,  on a balance of 
probabilities.
Its my role to put consumers back  into the position they would have been in if the mistakes 
complained of hadnt been  made. Although Im not convinced TSB did anything  wrong here in the first 
instance, theyre not proposing to undo any of the corrective  action theyve  taken in dealing with the 
first two aspects of the complaint. But even if I could  be satisfied TSB had made  the mistakes Mr H 
reports, from everything Ive seen, I think their actions are a reasonable response to of all the failings  
of which Mr H complains. Overall, on the evidence  before me at the moment  - relating to all aspects of 
this complaint - I dont think its appropriate to award  any further  compensation. So, at present,  Im 
planning not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN39908253In response to Mr Hs initial contact on 1 October 2018 about the charges for the unauthorised  
overdraft, TSB agreed to refund charges to the value of £240, amend  £80 upcoming charges, pay £20 
for the distress and inconvenience and £12 for his costs. The following day they agreed to Mr Hs 
request to remove the adverse entries relating  to the unarranged overdraft  from his credit file. And, 
although I disagree with the investigators recommendation to uphold this complaint and pay further 
compensation, I dont disagree with the approach shes taken to the first two elements  of Mr Hs 
complaint.
TSB tell us they think the remaining element of Mr Hs complaint - about how the complaint was 
handled after it was reopened in late October 2018 - is something this service cant consider  under 
the rules that govern us, as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity . In support of its position, 
TSBs referred to a number  of other complaints  weve  dealt with previously. But Im sure theyll 
appreciate I have to deal with each  case on its own merits. 
Our investigator disagreed with TSB and thought we could consider  it as the handling of Mr Hs 
complaint was an activity  ancillary to a regulated  activity. Im afraid  I dont agree. 
But for the outcome of this complaint I dont  think it matters  either way. As even if I thought  we could 
consider this final element  of the complaint and I found that TSB had made  mistakes (which - as Ill go 
on to explain - Im not convinced they have) I think the steps theyve already taken  in dealing  with the 
first two elements of it is a reasonable response to the overall situation.  So Im currently proposing, on 
the evidence before me, not to award any further compensation.
TSB took the steps of refunding the fees and amending Mr Hs credit record in response to his 
complaint on 1 and 2 October  2018, but I dont think they had to do this on this. The evidence  
presently before me shows Mr Hs account was in unarranged overdraft for the months in question. 
And that TSB wrote to Mr H (at the same  address he gave to this service  for correspondence) 
informing him of this on 11 May and 29 June 2018. And sent enforcement notices and a demand for 
payment on the 14 August and 19 September 2018, respectively. I acknowledge Mr H says he didnt 
get these letters from TSB but Im satisfied they were sent. I dont know why it is that Mr H hasnt 
been receiving some  of his mail, but I cant safely conclude that this is as a result of an error on TSBs 
part.
Also, theres  nothing to show the charges for the unapproved overdraft  werent in line with the terms 
and conditions on Mr Hs account. And, as the investigators already explained, banks are under  an 
obligation to accurately report relevant information to credit reference agencies.  As far as I can see 
thats what  TSB did here. So, overall,  I think the corrective  action TSB took - and which both parties  
agreed to - on 2 October 2018 wasnt something they were required to do. And in light of that Im 
currently of the view that it constitutes a reasonable response to all the concerns Mr H raised.
TSB sent a final letter to Mr H on 3 October 2018 advising him of the outcome hed agreed to, along  
with his rights to refer his complaint to this service.  Whilst I can see that TSB havent been particularly 
timely in dealing with the re-opened complaint or kept Mr H informed of the position, as theyve 
pointed out there are no regulations governing  this. And as I think  theyve already taken reasonable  
action to deal with the first two elements of this complaint - even though Im not persuaded they made  
any mistakes  - I cant say TSB have done anything wrong  here. Although I do appreciate it would 
have been helpful for Mr H to know how long this reopened investigation could take and the progress  
of it.
I can understand it mustve  been  frustrating for Mr H to wait a number of months to get an outcome to 
the re-opened complaint.  But I have to balance  that alongside it being  Mr Hs choice to leave the 
complaint with TSB and to wait to refer the matter to this service when he did. And I dont think its 
reasonable for me to hold TSB responsible  for Mr H exercising that choice.
Ref: DRN39908254my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that, subject to anything further that Mr H or TSB Bank plc send me by 22 
November 2019, Im planning not to uphold this complaint.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3990825