K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that about the lending that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) made to him. This 
complaint deals with his credit card account.
background
Mr C said that he was given bad advice by BoS about consolidating his debts, then allowed 
to borrow again.  He has complained to our service  about a mortgage,  a loan, a credit  card 
account and an overdraft. He wants BoS to accept that it gave him bad advice, and to pay 
him compensation. 
Mr C has told us about difficulties with his personal and family circumstances, which mean  
that he is facing  a likely reduction in his income.  He has told BoS about  these problems, and 
in response it has brought his existing debts  in house. It says that it wont  involve agents in 
collecting on these debts  in future. It also froze the charges  on his current  account in July 
2018, and it said it would  like him to set up a repayment agreement.   
In addition, Mr C has told BoS that he has a gambling addiction. He said hed told BoS about 
that in 2010, when he went  into a branch to extend his mortgage, so he thought it shouldve 
taken that into account  when he asked  it to loan him more money. He said that the lending 
that BoS had made had only fuelled  this addiction, and he thought that BoS was partly  
responsible for that. 
BoS said it didnt  think Mr C had told it that he had a gambling addiction  before 2018. It said 
that it doesnt monitor its customers accounts  to see what they are spending their money on. 
BoS said it had opened a credit card account for Mr C in August 2013,  with a credit  limit of 
£6,500. And it had increased his credit  limit in June  2014 to £7,250.  It thought that this 
lending was affordable for Mr C. 
But BoS said that it had lent Mr C some money,  through a loan, in 2014. It thought that this 
loan was intended to pay off his credit card, and his overdraft. But it hadnt reduced  his 
overdraft or his credit card limit then. BoS said that when Mr C started to use his overdraft 
and his credit card again, the total amount of lending he then had may have become 
unaffordable for him as a result. 
So BoS did something about  that. It said that it would refund all the overdraft and credit card 
charges it had applied to Mr Cs current account and credit card account since  July 2014. 
Separately, it had also offered to refund just the overdraft  fees.  That meant  that BoS was 
actually refunding  £418.83 more than he had been charged.  But when it realised that, it 
said that it would still do that. 
BoS used some of the refund to repay all of Mr Cs credit card borrowing, and it closed his 
account. It used the rest to repay part of Mr Cs overdraft,  and it reduced  his overdraft limit at 
the same  time. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that BoS shouldve significantly 
reduced Mr Cs credit  card limit, or even closed his card account, in July 2014, when he took 
out a loan to clear the card debt.  Our investigator thought that BoS made a mistake  when  it 
failed to do that. But he said that BoS had refunded all of the interest and fees that Mr C had 
paid since July 2014 on his credit card account, which  was enough to clear the debt. The 
Ref: DRN32484362account has now been closed. Mr C was also refunded an additional £418.83. So our 
investigator thought  that BoS had done  enough  to make up for what had gone wrong. 
Our investigator said that he couldnt  see any evidence that Mr C had told BoS about  his 
gambling addiction  before 2018. So he couldnt  say that BoS had done anything  wrong.  
Mr C didnt agree with that. He said that BoS has been harsher on itself than our service 
has. He wanted an ombudsman to consider  his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Ive asked BoS whether it has any records of Mr C telling  it that he had a gambling problem 
before 2018. It says it doesnt. And I havent been able to identify any evidence that Mr C did 
tell it this earlier. But BoS has now shared with our service the statements from a cardcash 
account, which over the six years  preceding  this complaint seems  to have been used almost 
exclusively for gambling transactions. Although BoS says it doesnt  micromanage its 
customers accounts, it would be difficult for me to conclude both that BoS wasnt  aware  that 
Mr C was spending substantial sums  in this way, and that it shouldnt  have  been  aware  of 
that. 
However, BoS has also said that gambling is a legal  and legitimate form of entertainment.  I 
dont think that BoS shouldve  refused to lend to Mr C, solely  because  it could  see that he 
was spending  money on gambling  transactions.
I can see that Mr C has mentioned when talking to BoS about  the lending  it made  to him, 
that he has previous  had arrears, defaults,  and two attempts to repossess his home. I dont 
know when those problems happened. I can see that Mr C had problems repaying debts 
after 2015, but I dont have evidence  to suggest  that he was having financial difficulties 
before this.
So I asked  Mr C if he would share with our service  his full credit file, so I could consider his 
overall borrowing  position at the relevant time,  when I looked  at each decision that BoS had 
made to lend him money.  Mr C has sent us an overview of his credit file, but not the full file. 
So I dont  have the detail which would allow me to see his overall credit position  when he 
made lending  applications to BoS. 
Our service has explained to Mr C that without this, we wouldnt be able to double-check 
whether BoS took account of the wider picture when it lent him money.  Mr C has asked us to 
go ahead  and make  a decision on the basis of the evidence we have, so I will do that.
BoS has repaid  all of the fees that Mr C paid for credit card borrowing after July 2014,  
because it said that it shouldve either  reduced his card limit, or closed the card account 
then, when it made a loan to him that was supposed to be used to clear  that card debt. 
Thats what  Id expect  BoS to do, if it wasnt clear that it had lent this money responsibly. I 
think that provides  a fair outcome to that part of Mr Cs complaint. 
Ref: DRN32484363So the main issue  I have to consider is whether BoS shouldve  lent Mr C money by opening 
this card account for him in August  2013, or increasing his credit limit in June 2014. 
BoS opened this credit card account for Mr C in August 2013, with a £6500 limit. BoS has 
sent calculations  showing Mr Cs overall  financial position when it did that. Ive looked  at this 
carefully, and it appears to me, from the information  I have, as if BoS has a clear  view of the 
amount of money  Mr C was being  paid at that time, and the lending  that had already been  
made to him. And it looks as if there was then some  surplus which  could be used to repay 
this credit card. I dont  think that I can say, on the information I have, that its more  likely than 
not that this card wasnt affordable for Mr C when BoS opened  the account. 
When Mr C first got this card, he made  a balance transfer to pay off a credit card held 
elsewhere at the time. Later in 2013 he also took a considerable amount of money out in 
cash transactions. But in the months  that followed,  he made all of his repayments  at well 
over the minimum amount required.  He remained within  his credit limit. He cleared the full 
debt on the card in February 2014, and his card stayed at a nil balance  for some time, before 
he started to use the card again in May. 
Mr C had only used about half of the credit  available to him on the card when BoS took a 
decision to increase his credit limit to £7,250 in June 2014.  This was a relatively modest 
increase, on a card which appeared to be well managed  at that time. BoS hasnt provided  a 
separate affordability calculation for this increase, but I do have information on lending 
decisions made for Mr C both before and after this. And I dont think it was unreasonable for 
BoS to conclude, in June  2014, that Mr C could manage a slightly higher credit  limit. I dont 
think that I can say, on the information  I have, that its more  likely than not that this increased  
limit on his card wasnt affordable for Mr C then.
I know that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision about the credit card lending  made  to 
him, but I dont think that I can conclude that BoS acted irresponsibly by giving him this card 
in 2013, or increasing his limit in June 2014. 
I do think that BoS made a mistake when it failed  to reduce Mr Cs card limit, or even close  
this card account altogether, in 2014, even though it had made  him a loan intended to pay 
this card debt off. But I think that BoS has accepted that. And it has already  done what  I 
would expect it to do, to make up for that. So I dont think it has to do any more now.  
Im sorry  to have to tell Mr C that I dont think his complaint about the credit card lending 
made to him by BoS should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN32484364my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3248436