K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Lloyds  Bank  General  Insurance Limited declined a claim on 
their home insurance policy for a damaged wall.
background
A boundary wall at Mr and Mrs Fs property collapsed.  They  said the wall was about 
40 years  old and hadnt showed any signs it needed  maintenance or repair.  After  a 
particularly stormy night  Mr F woke to find the wall had fallen into the lower level of a 
neighbours property. And itd damaged the neighbours  garage.
When Mr F spoke to Lloyds it confirmed the winds in his area had been registered at 68mph  
the previous night. Lloyds sent an assessor  who said the damage  wouldnt be covered as 
the wall had suffered  from wear  and tear over a period  of time and it didnt have supporting  
piers or drainage  holes. Mr and Mrs F obtained  their own report  which suggested  the wall 
was actually subsiding  along with the patio. So theyd like Lloyds  to cover the cost of repairs.
Lloyds said an assessor had visited Mr and Mrs Fs property. The assessors report said the 
mortar in the wall was in a poor condition  and there  were no supporting piers or drainage 
holes. The parts of the wall that were still standing  were also in very poor state. Lloyds  said 
itd declined the claim based on the information  in the assessors report. The wall appeared 
to have deteriorated due to wear  and tear over a period of time. Mr and Mrs Fs own report  
suggested a different cause. But Lloyds said the claimed subsidence  hadnt  damaged  the 
main dwelling. So itd declined  the claim as the damage wasnt the result of an insured peril.  
Mr and Mrs F werent satisfied with Lloyds response. So they contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He was sorry to hear of the damage caused  by the falling 
wall. But he felt it was fair for Lloyds  to rely on the professional opinion of the assessor. Our 
investigator felt the storm had highlighted the poor condition of the wall rather than the storm 
being the reason the wall had fallen. Although a second report had mentioned subsidence, 
such damage wasnt covered by the home insurance policy unless the main building  had 
also been damaged at the same time. So he couldnt say Lloyds had incorrectly  declined the 
claim based on the policy terms and conditions. And he wouldnt be asking it to do anything 
more. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree. So theyve asked  for an ombudsmans final decision. Theyd paid 
for the policy in good faith since purchasing the house from Mr Fs father. And their policy 
had continued  from his fathers  policy  which had covered the rebuilding of the house after a 
previous subsidence claim. So theyd no reason to believe subsidence  claims to other  parts 
of the property wouldnt be covered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how distressing this has been for Mr F and his family. And Ive looked very 
carefully at everything  thats happened  to see if Lloyds has done anything wrong. But having 
done so, I dont think I have any proper basis to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain 
why I say this below.
Ref: DRN34970662When the boundary  wall collapsed Mr and Mrs F thought it mightve been damaged during a 
storm the previous  night.  Lloyds agreed thered been adverse weather and sent an assessor 
to look at the wall. But the assessor felt the wall was in a poor state of repair due to gradual 
wear and tear. So Lloyds  declined the claim as gradual wear and tear wasnt  covered by the 
home insurance policy.
I know Mr and Mrs F hadnt  noticed any sign of wear  and tear. But I dont think its 
unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on the evidence presented  by its assessor.  And page six of 
the policy states that its important to make sure the home is kept in a good state of repair  as 
any damage caused by wear and tear isnt something the insurance  covers.
Mr and Mrs F produced their own report which suggested subsidence had caused the wall to 
collapse. But Lloyds  has still declined the claim. Under the section for subsidence, heave or 
landslip the policy says it wont cover damage to garden walls,  patios and other areas 
unless the main building of the home is damaged  at the same time and by the same  cause. 
And Ive not seen  any evidence to suggest there  was subsidence damage to the main  
building when the wall collapsed.
I understand the patio and garage  have now also collapsed and its affecting the 
neighbouring property too. And Mr and Mrs F have  been quoted a substantial amount to 
remove and replace the damage to their wall and garage. 
Mr F said the property was previously owned by his father. And they continued with the 
same insurance cover  when they purchased the house. I know  Mr and Mrs F paid for the 
policy in good  faith. And they say Lloyds had previously covered the cost of subsidence 
damage to the main  building when it was owned  by Mr Fs father. So he had no reason to 
believe they wouldnt be covered for any similar claims. 
But the home insurance policy is quite clear about both wear and tear and subsidence 
damage when  the main  building  hasnt been affected at the same time as other subsidence  
damage. And I wouldnt expect Lloyds to consider a claim when the damage  is for an 
uninsured event.
I do appreciate how upsetting  this has been  for Mr and Mrs F. And I know  the quotation for 
the repairs to the wall and garage  is very substantial.  But based on everything Ive seen I 
cant really say Lloyds  has acted unfairly in declining the claim based on the terms of the 
home insurance policy. And I cant ask it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 July 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3497066