K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Ms A says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
Ms A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. She paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy.
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP).  A TMPP  can be made  up of three  different elements  a PPI policy, life cover and 
critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover  can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes. 
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy   called Mortgage Repayment 
Cover - which covered  accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - not the life or 
critical illness cover.
Ms A paid a monthly amount for the PPI. If she had made a successful claim, the policy  
would have paid out the repayment benefit  for up to two years.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Halifax doesnt have  much of the paperwork  from that time, which  isnt surprising considering  
this was more  than 15 years ago. So in situations such as this I need to decide what  I think is 
more likely to have happened.
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have been  asked  for 
their consent  to the cover.
Ms A has said that the policy wasnt discussed with her and it was added without her 
knowledge. Ive also been given a copy of additional information she provided to Halifax in 
which she stated that she wasnt  even aware  that she had the policy until she was informed 
by a third party  company.  Halifax has been able to provide copies of its internal computer 
records which show questions relating to the PPI cover and answers  have been  recorded 
against each one. This would suggest  that questions were asked in relation to the PPI and, 
based on her answers, the policy was offered to Ms A. 
Ref: DRN37873522Ive also seen that Ms A made a claim against the accident and sickness section of the 
policy in 2007  for approximately six months.  So with the limited information  I have available 
to me, I think its more likely that Ms A knew the policy was optional and she agreed to buy it, 
knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it, even if she doesnt remember that now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms A so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems  to 
have had a need for the cover.
Ms A has told us she would receive  at least six months full pay from her employer if she 
was too ill to work. But this policy would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to two 
years, which  would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay she may 
have received. And it would have also provided cover  for the same length of time if she was 
to lose her job. So I still think this policy could have provided  a useful benefit to her.
Ive noted Ms A has told us she had considerable sums in savings that she could have used 
if she wasnt working. Ms A initially  told us she had £50,000 in savings but told Halifax  it was 
£20,000. When we asked for clarification Ms A said that she had £20,000 to £25,000 in 
easily accessible savings and further sums  in accounts that werent  necessarily so easy  to 
access. There does  appear to be some inconsistency in her recollections  which is 
understandable given  how long ago this was  and unfortunately she no longer has any 
paperwork to evidence  her savings. But even if Ms A did have such  savings, this policy  was 
covering her mortgage  which  is a large  financial commitment secured against her home and 
it would  have protected her savings for another purpose or enabled her to use those funds 
to cover other living expenses if she wasnt earning.  So this doesnt  alter my outcome. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But I think its more likely that chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Ms A has lost out as a 
result of anything that Halifax  may have done  wrong.
Ref: DRN37873523My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3787352