K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that hes received poor customer service from Caversham Finance Limited, 
trading as Brighthouse.  He says that hes not received the product he asked for and hes 
lost money as a result  and wants to be compensated.
background
Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreements with Brighthouse in March 2018.  The 
agreement financed a cooker and washing machine. But the washing machine wasnt  
delivered and the cooker couldnt be delivered  upstairs, where Mr W needed it. So Mr W 
cancelled his agreement  with Brighthouse  and they agreed to provide £60 in promotional 
vouchers because of the distress and inconvenience that had been caused.
On the same  day Mr W entered  into new agreements for a washer  and cooker. But the 
cooker could not be fitted as Mr W needed to have  fusing upgraded. When  the washer was 
delivered Mr W says he noticed it was the wrong  machine. It was not new and there was a 
dent on it. He says there were some components missing too. He explained  that he 
contacted Brighthouse who agreed to replace the machine.  But a replacement  didnt 
materialise and Mr W therefore  spoke  to Brighthouse again  in July 2018.  They  provided a 
further £20 in vouchers and promised to change the machine.  But Mr W was dissatisfied and 
told them  he wanted  to end his agreement and be compensated  for the time he had to spend 
off work and the costs to modify  the fusing for the cooker.  To date, the replacement  washer  
hasnt been delivered.
Brighthouse didnt  agree so Mr W referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator 
provided her view. She thought Brighthouse had adequately compensated Mr W for the 
missed delivery in March.  She noted that thereafter;  Mr W hadnt been provided  with the 
correct model of washing machine but that he had been using the alternative  washing 
machine. So she thought  Brighthouse should cancel  the agreement  for the washing 
machine; collect it and refund 40% of the payments Mr W had made  towards it. 
But she didnt think Brighthouse  were responsible for advising Mr W about the fuse upgrade 
and she hadnt  seen sufficient evidence of poor service that persuaded her Brighthouse had 
done anything  else wrong. She noted that Mr W also complained that Brighthouse  
representatives had visited his house. But she said the terms of Mr Ws contract  allowed 
them to do so if the agreement was in arrears. So she didnt think  Brighthouse needed to 
take any action  in that regard.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators opinion. He said the suggested settlement was 
inferior to that already  on offer. Brighthouse  didnt comment any further so the complaint was 
referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here 
I have to base  my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN38121412Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his goods under hire purchase agreements.  The hire purchase  agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
the washer dryer
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the goods  should not be misrepresented. 
So if Mr W was told something that wasnt true and which led him to enter into an agreement 
with Brighthouse,  that he otherwise would not have entered into, Id think it right to ask 
Brighthouse to do something about it.
Mr W hasnt received the product he asked for. Theres been no dispute that the washer  is 
the wrong one or that its damaged and in those circumstances I think  its clear  the finance  
agreement was misrepresented.  Mr W should therefore be allowed to cancel his finance  
agreement for this product but Brighthouse  are entitled to withhold  some of the money hes 
paid, or was contracted to pay, for reasonable use of the machine. Here, I think the 
investigators suggestion that they refund 40% of payments towards  the machine is fair and 
since Mr W has stopped making  payments I think its reasonable that they deduct this refund 
from the arrears on Mr Ws account.
the service issues
Mr W has complained of several service issues. I can see that Brighthouse have provided 
some compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by some  of their actions. On 
the evidence Ive been provided I think that compensation is reasonable.
I dont think they had to establish whether Mr Ws electric supply was adequate. Ive seen a 
copy of the Agreement Guide Presenter (AGR) which  Brighthouse tell me is covered with 
each customer.  I think  its therefore  most likely that this was shown to Mr W. The AGR 
contains information about the electrical  requirements that are necessary before a cooker 
can be fitted. I think its reasonable to suggest Mr W should have therefore  been  aware  the 
cooker would  not be fitted without the upgrade  to his system and I dont  think it would be fair 
to ask Brighthouse to take responsibility.
I note that Mr W hasnt  paid anything towards  his account since late June 2018.  In those 
circumstances I dont  think  its unreasonable for Brighthouse representatives to attend his 
property and I note that Brighthouse have explained this is covered in the AGR.
I do understand that deliveries didnt arrive on a few occasions. The compensation paid by 
Brighthouse has I think, in the circumstances, been  reasonable.  I dont think they had to 
refund any loss of earnings and I can see that theres been no evidence of loss of earnings 
provided. I wont therefore be asking them to take any further  action in relation to this.
I note that Mr W has explained this resolution is inferior to what  hes had before. It is for 
Mr W to decide whether he accepts this decision  but in the circumstances Im persuaded the 
actions Ive suggested are sufficient.
Ref: DRN38121413my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Caversham Finance 
Limited to:
cancel the agreement for the washer/dryer and collect it at no cost to Mr W;
refund 40% of the payments due under  that agreement. This refund can be used to 
reduce the arrears  on Mr Ws account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3812141