K821x#15complaint
Mrs M, along with the executors for the estate  of Ms S, have  complained about Towergate  
Underwriting Group Limited. Towergate  had arranged a policy for their commercial property 
but the insurer later declined  a claim Mrs M made on the basis it hadnt received adequate 
instructions from Towergate.
background
Mrs M and Ms S owned a property. Ms S passed away in 2013. At the point of renewal in
2014 Mrs M was the policyholder and Ms Ss estate  was still to be settled. Mrs M and her 
husband, Mr M, are the executors for the estate.
Prior to the policy  renewing on 30 July 2014  Mrs M told Towergate  that the property in 
question, whilst currently vacant, would become occupied  during the 2014/2015 policy  year. 
In April 2015  Mrs M told Towergate that the property  had, a few months earlier, become 
occupied as expected.
On 2 July 2015 Towergate advised the propertys  insurer that the property was now 
occupied. The insurer noted the update and confirmed that the renewal terms, which were 
being discussed at the time, would remain on an unoccupied basis  because the end of the 
current tenancy was due to coincide with the renewal date. Towergate asked that the insurer 
provide a refund (backdated to April 2015) to reflect the decreased risk an occupied property 
presents and the insurer sent Mrs M £50.
On 15 July Mrs M told Towergate,  which in turn notified the insurer, that thered been a leak 
but that she hoped the property would dry and thered be no need to make a claim. The 
insurer told Towergate that it would note the incident, but that it thought there might be 
problems if a claim was made.  The insurer didnt elaborate on this and Towergate didnt ask.
In August 2015 Mrs M contacted Towergate again. She said shed tried to dry the property  
but this had been unsuccessful. Towergate contacted the insurer and it said it could log a 
claim for Mrs M but this would probably be declined. It said this was because there was a 
limitation on the policy which restricted the cover  provided. It said,  as a result, there was no 
cover in place for water damage.
Mrs M was surprised  and disappointed. She believed shed had full cover  in place from the 
point shed told Towergate about the change in occupancy. And certainly  given that the 
insurer had accepted this and refunded some  premium.  When the insurer  refused to accept  
the claim,  Towergate  did argue with it on Mrs Ms behalf. The insurer  said it hadnt been 
asked by Towergate to lift the limitation in cover but Towergate said it shouldnt  have needed  
to make such a request. Mrs M and the estate complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that Towergate had completely failed Mrs M in this instance and that, as 
a result,  it should  take on liability for her claim.  Towergate objected  and the complaint was 
referred to me to consider. I wasnt persuaded it was fair to say Towergate was to blame and 
should, therefore, take on liability  for the claim.  I issued a provisional decision, I said; 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think  I can 
Ref: DRN30809502reasonably require Towergate to pick up liability for the claim,  not in all of the relevant 
circumstances here.  But as I believe it could reasonably have done more to avoid the 
situation from arising and Mrs M suffered distress  as a result, I think  it should pay 
compensation. Ill explain.
Towergate arranged  cover for Mrs M in 2014,  and that cover was appropriate at the time. 
But Mrs M wrote to Towergate in April 2015  to advise of a change  in circumstances. 
Towergate didnt  act on this and it only told the insurer  of the change when the insurer  
chased it whilst trying to arrange renewal.
At that time I think  that both the insurer and Towergate were focused  on looking forward to 
and agreeing the renewal terms. I dont think Towergate really thought about  the present  
cover or expected  there  would  be any loss in the few short  weeks  before the renewal. I know 
Towergate has argued since that it shouldnt have  had to prompt the insurer  to change  
anything. But that isnt what I see as being its reasoning for the actions it took,  or rather  
didnt take, at the time. And I think,  in the circumstances  it would  have been  reasonable for 
Towergate to check that the insurers acknowledgement of the occupancy status and its 
refund did mean Mrs M had full cover. It was wrong of it to just assume  that was the case. In 
making that assumption, or overlooking  the need  to do more, it wasnt  fully discharging its 
duty to ensure that Mrs Ms needs were met.
Because Towergate didnt fulfil its duty of care towards Mrs M, it created a situation where 
there was a lack of clarity about what cover was in place. Mrs M was entirely  unaware  of that 
until the insurer objected  to accepting her claim.  When Mrs M first learned of the insurers  
objection and the reason  for it she was, therefore,  caused an amount of distress that could 
have been avoided if Towergate had looked after her needs  effectively. Im satisfied that
£200 compensation to be paid by Towergate  to Mrs M is fair and reasonable in this respect.
Id add here that a policyholder and/or a complainant cant  be awarded  twice in respect of 
the same  loss. For that reason only is my award here limited to compensation for Mrs Ms 
upset caused  when hearing  the news of the insurers objections. Towergate  did, in my view,  
fail Mrs M, and, as a result, she and the estate faced  a potentially lost opportunity  to benefit 
from the policy theyd  made sure was in place to offer them cover in the event of something 
like a water  leak occurring.  But that potential loss is now being accounted for elsewhere, so
I cant reasonably award anything more against  Towergate.
Towergate said it had no comment  to make. Mrs M explained a bit more about what  had 
happened and what theyd all been through.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand what Mrs M went through following this loss as a result of Towergate having 
failed to fulfil its duty of care to her. But Mrs Ms comments in response to my provisional 
decision dont persuade me I should be making Towergate do anything more  than suggested  
provisionally. Therefore,  my provisional  findings  in this respect havent changed and they 
now form the findings of this my final decision.
Ref: DRN30809503my final decision
I uphold  this complaint.  I require Towergate Underwriting Group Limited  to pay Mrs M £200  
to compensate her for her distress  suffered when she heard that her insurer was objecting  to 
settling her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
executors for the estate  of Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3080950