K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) should not have approved  his credit card 
application.
background
Mr P applied for an Aqua credit card in October  2018. His application was successful and 
Aqua gave him a card with a credit limit of £900.  He went over the credit  limit in January 
2019 and isnt able to keep up with the minimum payments.  Aqua suspended  Mr Ps account  
in May 2019.
Mr P complained to Aqua. He suffers  from mental  health issues  and has been signed off 
work. He says he wasnt in a fit state  to take on the credit card at the time the account  was 
opened. He says his credit  rating  was very poor at the time and that he had spent up to the 
limit on two other credit cards which he wasnt able to pay off. He says the debt is affecting 
his mental state  and he has asked Aqua to write off the outstanding balance  on his account.
Aqua didnt uphold the complaint. They  say that, at the time Mr P applied for the card, his 
records showed no arrears or defaults. They accept that he had a high level of debt. But they 
say that wasnt unusual because the Aqua  card is marketed towards customers  who may 
find it more difficult to obtain credit. They say they had no concerns over Mr Ps application 
at the time. They also say they had no way of knowing  about his health  issues  when he 
applied for the card.  
When Mr P brought his complaint  to this service, our investigator thought  that Aqua had 
acted fairly.  Mr P didnt  accept our investigators view,  so his complaint has been passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P applied  for the credit card, Aqua needed  to check  whether he would be able to 
repay it in a way which was sustainable.  They needed to carry out checks  which were 
proportionate to things like the amount of credit being applied  for and the information Mr P 
had provided about  his financial situation. But there  isnt a set list of checks  which Aqua had 
to do.
Aqua say their decision to offer credit was based  on information supplied  by Mr P, data from 
the credit  reference  agencies  and their own risk strategies.  They say they completed various 
checks including affordability and indebtedness  checks before approving Mr Ps application. 
Based on the information available to me, Im satisfied they did so.
Aqua say that Mr P met their eligibility criteria. And that their calculations  showed his 
disposable income was enough  to afford the minimum  payments  on the card.  They say its 
not unusual for a customer with a poorer credit  score  to be offered this card,  giving them the 
chance to rebuild their credit rating.  I think thats a reasonable explanation.  Its for Aqua as a 
business to decide who they extend  credit to and on what  basis. What Id expect is for them 
to perform enough checks before they do so. Based on the information available to me, Im 
satisfied they did that here.
Ref: DRN38504102I havent seen  anything which shows that Mr P told Aqua about his health  issues before he 
brought this complaint. And it didnt come to light as part of their checks. So I dont  think  its 
reasonable to expect  them to have known. And I think their decision to offer credit  at the time 
of Mr Ps application was reasonable.
I note from Mr Ps statements  that no interest  or default fees have been applied to the 
account since June  2019. I think thats fair. But Im not going  to ask Aqua to write off the 
account balance  because I dont think theyve done  anything wrong here and Mr P has had 
the benefit of the money the card provided. Aqua have invited Mr P to contact their 
Customer Care  team  and I would  urge him to do so to discuss a way forward.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3850410