K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the delays when transferring his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) he had with third party provider to Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS). 
background
Mr G requested his SIPP be transferred from a third party; Ill call Company H, to ATS on 
31 August 2017.  The request stated that where possible the assets  of the SIPP should 
be transferred to ATS In-Specie.  
Company H, sent ATS a list of the assets on 6 October 2017 and asked them  to confirm 
that they were  acceptable, and if so to provide  re-registration  details. ATS say that they 
did not receive this email  until it was resent  on 31 October 2017. It transpired that the 
ATS SIPP could not hold all the assets that were held by the Company H SIPP, and so 
alternative arrangements had to be made  regarding  those  assets.   
ATS referred  back  to the financial adviser for instruction on how to proceed with the non-
transferable assets  on 1 November 2017. The financial adviser says that he did not 
receive this email. This was not discovered until 22 November 2017, when the adviser  
called for an update and was advised that ATS were awaiting his instruction. He gave an 
immediate response  that the assets  should  be sold and transferred as cash. 
The transfer then went ahead and the final transfer payment was made from Company H 
to ATS on 21 February 2018.
Mr G complained that this was an unacceptably  long period to complete the transaction 
and that he had been financially disadvantaged as a result.  ATS accepted that there had 
been delays and offered Mr G £250 as compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr G felt that this was not sufficient redress and referred the complaint to this service. 
Its important to say Mr G also made  a complaint about the transfer of another 
investment at around the same  time.  For the purpose of clarity, Im just looking at this 
complaint with regard  to Mr Gs SIPP transfer.  The complaint about  the other investment 
transfer has been considered separately.
An adjudicator investigated the case and found  that the email that Company H had sent 
to ATS on 6 October 2017 was sent to the email address provided by ATS for such  
correspondence. She said that if the email had not reached the intended recipient on 
that day it must be either because the email  address they provided was wrong,  or that 
the email was incorrectly filed on arrival at ATS; either way she felt that ATS were 
responsible for a delay of 17 working  days between 6 October 2017 and 31 October 
2017.
She also established that the email sent by ATS to the adviser on 1 November 2017 was 
sent to the correct address and so it should be assumed  that the adviser in fact received 
it. She said,  however,  that she would expect ATS to follow  up on this email, if they had 
not received a reply, after two weeks and therefore the fact that they did not resulted in 
additional 5 working days delay.
Ref: DRN35011992The adjudicator recommended that ATS should pay Mr G redress to compensate for a 
total of 22 days  delay. 
ATS did not agree with the adjudicators opinion. They say the adjudicator has identified  
four delays and ATS are only responsible for two of those. They  have apologised and 
offered Mr G redress of £250, which they feel, is fair and reasonable. ATS dont accept 
they should compensate Mr G for any loss he has suffered  and so they asked for an 
ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information 
provided by both parties afresh. Having done so, Im in agreement with the adjudicators 
findings and for broadly the same reasons.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is 
here I have  to base  my decision  on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what  I 
think is more likely  to have happened.
Firstly, Ive looked at the final response letter ATS sent Mr Gs third party representative 
regarding the delays to the transfer of his SIPP. It reads:
. With regards  to the length of time taken to transfer Mr Gs SIPP, the timescale for 
completing transfers is 90 working days. The transfer of your clients  SIPP was received 
on 12 September 2017 and completed on 23 February 2018, when the final payment of 
£1,819.13 was received and allocated, which is 24 working days  out of our service level 
agreement. The service you received falls short of the standards we set ourselves and 
those Mr G should expect  to receive  and I apologise  for the delay caused. 
So, from what I can see ATS havent  disputed it was responsible for delaying the 
transfer of Mr Gs SIPP. But, after Mr G brought his complaint to this service, ATS 
changed its position. It now feels the delay  was for a significant shorter  period than it 
originally agreed,  and asserts the £250 compensation offered is sufficient and no further 
adjustment for any potential loss should form part of the redress. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events  and the correspondence between ATS and 
Company H. I agree  with the adjudicators view that there appear  to be four key delays; 
two are attributable  to ATS and two to Company H. As Mr Cs complaint pertains to the 
delays caused  by ATS I have only looked  at the impact of these two delays.
ATS received the transfer application in September 2017. The first delay occurs between  
06 October and 31 October. On 06 October, Company  H sent their schedule  of holdings  
to ATS following a letter issued by ATS on 4 October 2017. ATS chased a response to 
this on 31 October and maintain they didnt  receive  the email from Company  H. Ive 
checked the email  address from the information  available and it appears to be the 
correct address and is dated 6 October.2017 Im satisfied  the email  response was sent 
in a timely manner and to the correct  email address and  although ATS say they didnt  
receive it, they also didnt  chase it up until 31 October 2017. Im persuaded, on balance, 
this delay is attributable  to ATS.
Ref: DRN35011993The second  delay is between 01 November 2017 and 22 November 2017 and similarly a 
mislaid email or lost email. This time from ATS to Mr Gs IFA. I have again looked 
carefully at the email  address  and it appears  to be correct.  So, on balance I agree it was 
sent correctly and most likely mislaid  or misfiled  by Mr Gs IFA. But, again, ATS didnt 
chase up the missing information for over three weeks.  Im not persuaded thats 
reasonable. I would  expect  to see some follow up within 14 days  of a request for 
information failing to be received. Im persuaded ATS are not responsible for all the 
delays here,  but I agree  ATS are responsible for some of this three-week delay in failing 
to chase the required information.  Im satisfied that 5 days  of the overall  delay should  be 
attributed to ATS. 
Im satisfied then, that there is at least a 22 day delay that could have been avoided and 
which are attributable to ATS. This is two days less than ATS originally acknowledged  in 
their final response letter  to Mr G. It follows that had they not occurred its reasonable to 
assume the transfer of the in-specie  holdings and the majority of the cash transfer would 
have happened  earlier. 
The in-specie holdings  were not bought or sold and so their actual value hasnt been 
affected by the date they were transferred. There is no financial disadvantage  here and 
so no redress is required.
I have considered ATSs objection to the method of calculation. Where something  has 
gone wrong, we look at the impact its had and whether what the business  has done to 
put things right is fair and reasonable. The usual remedy for redress  where  a delay has 
occurred would be to calculate if Mr G has suffered a loss because of that delay. If he 
has, then any loss should be corrected,  to put Mr G back  in the position  he would have 
been in had it not occurred. Im persuaded its only fair and reasonable that calculation  
should take into consideration any financial loss from the time the transfer should have 
taken place to the current  time, as any loss, if there is one, will be compounded over 
time and so Im going to direct  ATS to calculate if there has been a loss and if so 
compensate Mr G accordingly.
I understand this matter  has caused  Mr G trouble and upset. I have taken into account 
ATS were not responsible  for all the delays in the whole process and so Im satisfied  the 
£250 ATS have offered is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given Im upholding this complaint and I direct Alliance Trust 
Savings Limited  to:
1.Compare the current value of the holdings purchased by Mr Gs SIPP using the 
cash amount transferred  from Company H on 10 January 2018 with the notional  
value of those  holdings if they had been  purchase  22 working days earlier.  If the 
notional value if greater than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation 
is payable. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation 
is payable as Mr G hasnt  suffered  a loss.
2.If there  is a loss, ATS should pay it into Mr Gs pension plan, to increase its value 
by the given amount. The payment should allow for charges  and any available  
Ref: DRN35011994tax relief. Any compensation shouldnt be paid into the plan if it would conflict  
with any existing protection or allowance.
3.If there  is compensation  and ATS are unable to pay it into Mr Gs pension  plan 
they should pay it direct to him. Had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income  and so any compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would have been  paid.
4.The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Gs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
5.For example, if Mr G is likely  to be a basic rate tax payer  at the selected  
retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. But if Mr 
G would  have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the notional allowance 
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
6.Provide the calculation to Mr G in a clear  and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501199