K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them payment protection insurance  (PPI) for 
their mortgage and further advance.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2003, and they took out further cover 
to protect  their further  advance in 2004. Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI with regular monthly  
premiums, which  didnt  attract interest. The policies covered Mr and Mrs T in case  either of 
them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ts PPI policies  werent  mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Both the mortgage  application and further advance application had a section  for PPI. On 
each form there were two tick boxes  to choose from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. 
The boxes were  equally prominent. On each occasion, the box to buy PPI was ticked and 
Mr and Mrs T signed the form. Mr and Mrs T also signed and submitted application  forms 
specifically for PPI on both occasions, where they chose what type of cover they wanted. 
And they set up direct  debits to pay for the policies,  separately to paying for the mortgage or 
further advance   the PPIs cost was separate, and not something  that was necessarily 
included. So I think that Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs T aware they had a choice about  buying 
PPI, and that they chose to take it on both occasions  though  I can understand if they no 
longer remember doing  so given  the years  that have passed.
Lloyds recommended PPI for Mr and Mrs T, so it had to check  it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Mr and Mrs T dont  seem  to have been  affected by either of the policies main exclusions or 
limitations. While  they said they had good benefits  through work, the PPI paid out on top of 
those  Mr and Mrs T were still eligible to claim even if they got sick pay through work. The 
mortgage and further advance were  significant, long-term commitments,  and there was no 
guarantee what Mr and Mrs Ts situation  would be in the years  to come,  so it seems sensible 
that they insured themselves. And the PPI offered them more comprehensive cover  than 
their work benefits for the periods where  their work benefits reduced to just half pay  a 
serious drop in income. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs T fell behind on their 
mortgage or further advance payments, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve  
been useful for them  in protecting  their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN37365142Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs T about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr and Mrs T chose to take out PPI, so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. As I said above, Mr and Mrs T werent affected by any of the main things 
the policies didnt cover, and the PPI couldve really been useful for them  in case something 
went wrong. Then if Mr or Mrs Ts circumstances changed, they could  cancel their PPI at 
any time without a penalty. So overall,  I dont think that better  information  was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover on either occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3736514