K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about a decision taken by Black  Horse Limited (trading as 
Black Horse  Finance) (Black Horse)  to take possession of a car he had purchased  under a 
hire purchase (HP) agreement with it. And about  how it has recorded his liability under this 
agreement with various credit reference agencies. He has also complained that the number 
plate on the car was his own and not the property of Black  Horse.
background
I issued two provisional decisions on this case, one in early  October  2019  and one in 
late October 2019. A copy of my second  provisional decision is attached to this final decision 
and forms part of it.
In my second provisional decision  I explained  why I was proposing to not uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached a 
final decision.
Mr N didnt respond to my second provisional  decision by the date I gave.
Black Horse  responded  to say it agreed  with my findings and had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr N didnt  respond to my second  provisional decision and given that Black  Horse 
says it agrees with it and has nothing further  to add, I see no reason to depart from my 
second provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN38942112copy (second) provisional  decision
complaint
Mr N complains about a decision taken by Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) to take possession  of 
a car he had purchased under a hire purchase (HP) agreement with it. And about how it has 
recorded his liability under  this agreement with various credit  reference agencies. He has also 
complained that the number plate on the car was his own and not the property of Black Horse.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case in early October  2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and 
forms part of this second provisional  decision.  
In my (first) provisional  decision I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before  I reached a final decision.
Mr N didnt respond by the date I gave.
Black Horse responded to say it didnt agree  with my findings that it should compensate Mr N for the 
loss of his number  plate. In summary it said that Mr N was advised what he needed  to do to retain  
ownership of his number plate and in fact did so.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As neither  party has provided anything new for my consideration in respect of Mr Ns complaint about 
Black Horse taking  possession of the car, selling  it on and recording what it did with third party credit 
reference agencies  I see no reason to depart from my first provisional findings  in this respect.
I can see from the further submissions made by Black Horse that Mr N was advised in February 2019 
what he needed to do to retain his number  plate  and that he was able to do so by having  it removed  
from the car in March  2019, a few months before it was ultimately sold on. And because  of this, I now 
see no reason to direct  Black Horse to compensate Mr N anything  in this respect.
So in summary Im now of the view that Black Horse, in the particular circumstances  of this case, has 
done nothing wrong and it need do nothing  further.
my provisional  decision
My second  provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38942113copy  (first) provisional  decision
complaint
Mr N complains about a decision taken by Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) to take possession  of 
a car he had purchased under a hire purchase (HP) agreement with it. And about how it has 
recorded his liability under  this agreement with various credit  reference agencies. He has also 
complained that the number plate on the car was his own and not the property of Black Horse.
background
Mr N purchased a car costing £30,188. Mr N paid a deposit of £3,000 and financed the balance of 
£27,188 by way of an HP agreement with Black Horse.  Under the terms of the HP agreement Mr N 
was required to make 60 monthly payments of £595.16  total to be repaid to Black Horse of 
£35,709.60.
On 1 October 2018 Black Horse says Mr N was stopped by the police for driving the car whilst 
disqualified and the car was impounded.
On 3 October 2018 Black Horse says Mr N presented himself to the police pound and completed a 
vehicle sale or transfer form confirming he had sold the car to a third party for £23,000.
On, or shortly  after, 3 October 2018 Black Horse  says the DVLAs records were  amended to show the 
car was now registered to a person other than Mr N, although Black Horse didnt  discover this till 
later.
On, or shortly  after, 3 October 2018 Black Horse  says the car was released  to the person now 
registered with the DVLA.
On 11 December  2018,  as Black Horse discovered  what had happened, it sent Mr N a letter that said:
You have provided evidence in court of a sale of our financed vehicle and it has a further change  of 
keeper.
Take NOTICE  that as a result of investigations by this department [Financial Crime & Fraud 
Department], we hereby  rescind the agreement.
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that you are no longer  in possession of [the car] with our consent and that 
in the event of you failing to deliver up the [car] immediately, we will be entitled (subject to the Hire 
Purchase Act where applicable), to take possession  of the [car] and also TAKE  NOTICE  that this 
termination does not affect any pre-existing  liability of yours  to us or the right to enforce our claim for 
damages by appropriate action.
On, or shortly  after, 11 December 2018 Black Horse says it reported the car to the police  as stolen.
On 24 December  2018  the police wrote to Black Horse to say it had removed the car from the road 
and that it, as the person  otherwise responsible for it, should make arrangements to collect it. 
Black Horse collected  the car and held it pending a sale at auction in the summer of 2019.
Mr N complained to Black  Horse about its decision to take possession of the car and how it had 
recorded his liability in respect of his agreement with various credit reference agencies. He also 
complained about Black  Horse taking possession  of the car with a number  plate he had personally 
paid for.
Black Horse responded to say that it had acted, at all times, appropriately and acted in line with the 
terms and conditions  of the HP agreement. In other words, it wasnt upholding Mr Ns complaint.  Mr N 
Ref: DRN38942114didnt agree  and said, amongst other things, that all he had done was to transfer the car to a friend  
to take care of it and on the understanding that his friend would make the required HP agreement 
payments for a short period  going  forward  whilst he was unable to do so.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators  who concluded Black Horse had done 
nothing wrong.
Mr N didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The terms  of Mr Ns HP agreement  says:
1.2 We own the Goods and until you buy them you must  not use them  for any purpose that is 
expressly not permitted, abandon,  part with day to day control  of, sell or attempt to sell the 
Goods, use them as security or allow any other person to obtain any rights over them.
Mr N says he didnt sell the car but simply transferred it to a friend  to take care of it. But even if I was 
to accept what Mr N says here, and the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest this is what happened, Im 
satisfied that by doing  what  he says he did he [parted] with day to day control of [the car] and gave a 
third party rights over [it].
The terms  of Mr Ns HP agreement  also says:
10.1 We may end this Agreement by written notice if you fail to make any Repayment on its due 
date or you breach this Agreement in any other important respect
In my view 1.2 of the HP agreement constitutes an important  term/condition. I say this given  my 
understanding as to why its included in the agreement and given that its my understanding that such  
a term isnt uncommon in agreements of this type.
And given  Im satisfied  that Mr N breached this term/condition it follows  Im satisfied that Black Horse  
had the right to end the HP agreement. For the sake of completeness I would also add that Ive seen 
nothing that would lead me to conclude  that Black Horse wouldnt have ended the agreement  had he 
sought its permission to do what  he said he did.
I note that Mr N says he didnt receive Black Horses letter of 11 December 2018 rescinding (ending) 
the agreement. But given Black Horse has been  able to provide a copy of this letter, correctly 
addressed to Mr N at the address declared by him to both Black Horse and our service, Im satisfied 
that on balance this letter was sent.  
I will now turn to Mr Ns concerns about what Black Horse has recorded, in respect of his agreement, 
with third party credit reference agencies. 
Its my understanding that the agreement has been marked with credit reference agencies as being  in 
default. I say its my understanding that this is the case because  despite a number  of requests  Mr N 
hasnt provided our service with a copy of his credit file.
However Black  Horse has provided our service with a number of documents (including a default  letter, 
a number of arrears letters  and Mr Ns account history). And these all suggest to me that if Mr Ns 
account is showing as being in default with credit  reference  agencies this hasnt been recorded 
incorrectly.
Ref: DRN38942115Based on records  provided by Black Horse it appears that five payments of £595.16 and one payment 
of £200 have  been credited to Mr Ns account between June 2018 and June 2019 (rather than 12 
payments of £595.16). Given that Mr N hasnt  provided  anything to the contrary (despite being given 
the opportunity to do so) Im satisfied that Black Horses account records can be relied on and Mr N is 
a number of monthly payments in arrears.
I can also see that Mr N is unhappy that Black Horse hadnt, until very recently, sold the car. But given 
its type (it being my understanding that it was a high performance  convertible) delaying the sale of it 
until very recently was, in my view, entirely reasonable. Furthermore Black  Horse has confirmed that 
the delay in selling the car has had no bearing on Mr Ns liability  to it, this having been set some time 
ago at half of the amount  payable under the HP agreement less any payments made.
I will now turn to Mr Ns complaint point  that Black Horse took possession  of the car with his own 
number plate  on it and ultimately sold it on with that number plate on it.
It would appear that this particular  complaint wasnt addressed by Black  Horse in its response to 
Mr N, or the investigator in his view. So I will address it now.
Mr N raised his concerns  with Black Horse about it taking possession of the car with his own number  
plate on it before the car was sold on and before  Black Horse  had issued  its complaint response. So 
given this, and given that Black Horse didnt  explain  to Mr N what he needed to do in order to retain 
ownership of the number plate  something I think it could  and should have done  I find it only fair 
that Mr N be compensated for any loss he has suffered in this respect.
I gave Mr N the opportunity to provide evidence  of the cost of his number plate, but he didnt provide 
any. However, my own internet research suggests the plate was/is  worth in the region of £750. So 
unless Im provided with evidence to the contrary I think its fair to conclude  that the loss suffered by 
Mr N on being unable to retain ownership of his number  plate is £750.
I also accept that having lost the option of being able to retain ownership of his number plate Mr N 
has suffered  some distress and inconvenience.  But given that I dont propose Black Horse reduce the 
sum of £750  by the costs  Mr N would have incurred in retaining ownership  of his number  plate and 
given what is my understanding Mr N owes Black Horse, I think  its entirely  appropriate that I make no 
award for distress and inconvenience in this case.
So in summary Im not persuaded that Black Horse has, in the particular  circumstances of this case, 
done anything wrong in taking possession of the car, selling it on and recording what it has with third 
party credit  reference agencies.  However, I think Black Horse should compensate Mr N for selling the 
car with his number plate  on it by reducing  the sum recorded in its books as due and owing to it from 
him by £750.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Black Horse Limited should reduce the sum recorded  in its books as 
due and owing to it from Mr N by £750. 
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3894211