K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading in this case  under its Halifax brand) wont  
refund a debit  card payment  made  to a travel agent.  He says he neither made the payment 
himself nor authorised anyone else to make it.
background
On 19 August 2017 Mr Ls debit card was used  to book a holiday for him and two other 
passengers, at a total cost of nearly  £2,400. It was also used to book airport parking, 
although that payment was refunded. The holiday was due to be taken between  22 August 
and 3 September 2017. It seems it wasnt taken.  
When Mr L raised the payment with Halifax, it credited his account  while  it investigated. The 
travel company provided Halifax with more information about the booking.  That information 
showed: 
Mr L was named  as the lead passenger.
The booking for the airport parking included details of Mr Ls car. 
One of the other passengers had previously received  payments from Mr L, suggesting 
Mr L knew them.  The booking included Mr Ls email address. 
The booking included  Mr Ls correct  day and month of birth,  but the wrong  year. The 
address and telephone number had belonged to Mr L, but were  out of date.
The travel company said the booking had been made  by phone,  although it didnt have a 
recording of it. It also showed that it had been made using  Mr Ls card details, including the 
security number. 
Halifax thought  that the travel company had enough  information to show that Mr L authorised  
the payment and so re-debited his account. Mr L complained to this service  and one of our 
investigators considered  his complaint.  He said that he thought Mr L probably was aware  of 
the booking and that Halifax  didnt  therefore  need  to refund the payment. Mr L didnt agree 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
Mr L has suggested that the staff at the travel company might have been responsible for 
making the booking.  That seems  very unlikely to me though. They wouldnt have  gained  
anything from booking  a holiday in Mr Ls name  and would have been easily identified. 
The only people who could benefit from the booking were Mr L and the other two named 
passengers. In my view,  therefore, it seems  most  likely that the booking was made by Mr L 
or by one of the other passengers. But, even if was made by another passenger, I think  it 
likely that Mr L gave  his permission for his card to be used. Had someone been  using Mr Ls 
card without his knowledge  or consent, its unlikely  that Mr L would have been  included as a 
passenger. 
Ref: DRN34820322Even if I were to reach a different view on that point, its clear that Mr L knows  who else 
might have used his card. Hes offered  only limited  information about  that, but Im not aware  
of any reason why he shouldnt  seek payment from that person. I take the view that, in the 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require Halifax to refund the payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc 
to take any further  steps to resolve Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 18 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3482032