K820x#14complaint
Ms B, Mr F and Mr S complain as eligible consumers and former committee members of 
East West MMA Hull (an unincorporated association which  has now closed) that National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest for short) allowed other committee members  to take control  
of the clubs  bank account.
Background
In December 2018 I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. In short  I 
found I couldnt fairly decide the dispute with the current  situation between the signatories 
and the members of the committee before the club closed. I also raised a number of issues  
which could stop the complaint going  further if all the eligible consumers on the management 
committee did join the complaint on the basis of fairness. I invited all parties to let me have 
any further submissions before I reached  my final decision. Both Ms B, Mr F and Mr S and 
NatWest have responded to my provisional  decision. NatWest responded saying it had 
nothing further  to add. Ms B, Mr F and Mr S made further comments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms B, Mr F and Mr S have raised  the following points which I will address in turn.
Ms B, Mr F and Mr S have made the point that the signing mandate for transactions  
wasnt followed in changing  the authority on the account. I did deal with this in my 
provisional decision. I said the signing mandate is with regard to who by and how 
transactions are to be made on the account. It is not a mandate or mechanism  as to 
how authority on the account is to be established.  Ultimately the new signatories 
demonstrated they held committee positions and provided their personal details. So 
Im not persuaded NatWest did anything wrong  with regard to giving them authority 
on the account.
Ms B, Mr F and Mr S have reiterated that NatWest didnt contact the rest of the 
committee when the new signatories presented themselves to NatWest. As stated it 
is not for NatWest to involve itself in the running  of the club.  And when  it did add 
them to the authority  Im not persuaded  it was on notice of any persuasive reason not 
to add them.
Ms B, Mr F and Mr S have said that (the new signatories) had been trying  to take 
over the club for the most  of 2017;  however, the other Committee  Members  never  
thought they would  behave in any kind of secretive/fraudulent way. Their  behaviour  
and the decisions  of NatWest have caused  the closure of a club, which would have 
continued had the finance been available.  However Im not persuaded NatWest  has 
done anything  wrong here. This is clearly  a civil matter between  the individuals  on 
the committee of this club, which is evidenced in numerous ways  including calling the 
police on the new signatories.
Ms B, Mr F and Mr S have also made other  arguments which Ive considered 
carefully. They have  also reiterated the events at length. However I note that they 
have chosen to not counter argue many  of the key points I made in my provisional 
decision, especially  around fairness.  Just because they are unhappy with the 
situation they are in doesnt mean its NatWests fault.
Ref: DRN35784632Lastly I should reiterate  what I said in my provisional decision:
As it stands I do not see persuasive reason to uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied that the 
complainants bringing this complaint  have  demonstrated that the new signatories werent 
authorised to represent the clubs wishes. They were the chairman and another  committee  
member after all. Until that matter is resolved I cannot fairly decide whether NatWest  did 
anything wrong  in accepting that the new signatories were authorised to represent  the club.
I should add that even  if the complainants do establish that the new signatories werent 
authorised to represent the club I see a number  of reasons for this matter  not going  further.  
These include:
As the club is closed  the eligible complainants here are all members of the club or at 
least all members of the management committee at the time of closure. This would 
then include the new signatories. Considering what has happened it seems  unlikely 
they will be willing to join the complaint  to this service and thus have to accept they 
werent authorised  to act on behalf of the club.
I do not think I could  make a fair finding on the matter if all the committee  joined the 
complaint. This is because whatever  conclusion  I reached would in essence be either 
deciding for or against the obvious factions in the management committee at the time 
of the clubs  closure.
Underlying all of this is an obvious civil matter which probably would be better dealt 
with by a court.
So having  considered everything  I see no reason  to change  my position  as described in my 
provisional decision and above. So the complaint  is not successful.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint about  National Westminster Bank  Plc. So it has nothing further 
to do in this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B, Mr F and 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35784633COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Ms B, Mr F and Mr S complain  as eligible consumers and former committee  members  of East West 
MMA Hull (an unincorporated association  which has now closed) that National Westminster  Bank Plc 
(NatWest for short) allowed other committee members to take control of the clubs bank account.
background
In 2012 Ms B, Mr F and Mr S signed to original bank mandate for East West MMA  Hull (the club  for 
short), an unincorporated association, with NatWest. They were  the signatories  for many years and 
held roles on the club management committee. 
In November 2017 other  committee members (who  are not parties to this complaint to this service) 
having been  voted into Chairman and Chief Instructor of the club management committee, visited a 
NatWest branch and having produced club minutes showing their roles on the club and having  
provided their personal  details were added as signatories to the account.  They also removed Ms B, 
Mr F and Mr S as signatories  from the account. At a later date they closed the club account  and 
transferred the remaining funds away to another bank.  Ill refer to these  parties as the new 
signatories.
Also in November 2017 the club was closed  and is recorded  as such  in the club minutes. The new 
signatories were not present at this meeting.
Mr F complained to NatWest about it allowing the changes  to be made to the mandate  for the club 
account. NatWest  didnt  agree and said it had acted correctly. So Mr F, Ms B and Mr S complained 
here.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint saying NatWest had treated Ms B, Mr F and Mr S unfairly and 
made an award of proportionate  shares of the amount of funds in the account  prior to those funds 
being transferred away to them. NatWest disagreed so the complaint  has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I must say that these are an unusual  set of circumstances. As such  I am writing this provisional 
decision in order to allow both parties the opportunity to put forward any further arguments for my 
consideration before I issue a final decision. Or the complainants may decide  to withdraw their 
complaint whilst they reappraise the position.
Before deciding  whether  NatWest did anything wrong  in accepting  that the new signatories  were 
authorised to represent the club it must be established whether or not they were actually  authorised to 
represent the club or not. Im not satisfied that this was established. Until that is established I do not 
think it fair to consider the actions of NatWest.
There is clearly a dispute  amongst the former committee members (it is of note the police have been 
asked to be involved in this dispute and they decided  it was a civil matter).
I agree with NatWest  regarding the argument in the view that the signing  mandate has not been 
followed. The signing mandate is with regard  to who by and how transactions  are to be made on the 
Ref: DRN35784634account. It is not a mandate or mechanism as to how authority  on the account  is to be established. As 
such the reason  given for upholding this complaint falls away.
I agree with the position that it is not for NatWest to interfere with the running of the club,  nor to be 
checking with the rest of the club whether  those  representing themselves  as authorised 
representatives of the club are in fact who they say they are bearing  in mind they provided their 
personal details to NatWest.  Im not persuaded that such a duty of care exists in this situation.
I also agree with NatWest  that the proposed redress methodology  was contrary to the rules of the 
club and inappropriate as it would  mean certain  individuals would personally benefit  from funds  which  
were club funds. If there was to be any redress paid in this case (which Im not currently persuaded  
there should be) such funds  would  either be given to charity  (which appears to be the position  in the 
constitution of the club) or to be equally  split between  every member of the club at the date of its 
closure.
As it stands I do not see persuasive reason  to uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied that the 
complainants bringing this complaint have demonstrated that the new signatories  werent authorised  
to represent the clubs wishes.  They were the chairman and another committee member after all. Until 
that matter is resolved I cannot fairly decide whether NatWest did anything wrong in accepting that 
the new signatories  were authorised to represent the club.
I should  add that even if the complainants do establish that the new signatories werent  authorised to 
represent the club I see a number  of reasons for this matter not going further.  These include:
As the club is closed the eligible complainants here are all members of the club or at least all 
members of the management committee at the time of closure. This would then include the 
new signatories. Considering what has happened it seems unlikely they will be willing to join 
the complaint to this service and thus have to accept they werent  authorised to act on behalf 
of the club.
I do not think I could make a fair finding  on the matter  if all the committee joined the 
complaint. This is because whatever conclusion I reached would in essence be either 
deciding for or against  the obvious  factions  in the management  committee at the time of the 
clubs closure.
Underlying all of this is an obvious  civil matter which probably would  be better  dealt with by a 
court.
As a consequence of all of this it is my current position that this complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc should not be upheld.
my provisional  decision
For the above  reasons,  I am currently  minded  to not uphold this complaint about National  
Westminster Bank  Plc. 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3578463