K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  unfairly cancelled her motor
insurance policy. Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
Background
Mrs M had a motor insurance  policy with Advantage which she paid for monthly. The policy  
required Mrs M to have  a telematics box installed to monitor her driving  behaviour.
Unfortunately, roughly  two months  in to the policy, Mrs M was involved in an accident  and 
her car was a total loss. After the claim, Advantage offered Mrs M the option of adding  a new 
car to her policy.
Mrs M gave  Advantage  the details of the new car she and it was added  to the policy.  The 
new car meant the price of Mrs Ms policy increased, but Mrs M was happy with this and 
agreed to pay the additional cost each month.
Advantage said Mrs M needed  to install a new telematics box to her new car within 14 days  
of them  adding the new car to her policy. It let Mrs M know  this in written correspondence,  
and it tried to call Mrs M every day for 15 days to try and arrange  for the box to be fitted. As 
it couldnt reach Mrs M, it wrote  to her saying it would cancel her policy in seven days if the 
box wasnt fitted before then.
Mrs M called  Advantage the day she received this notification, to arrange an appointment to 
fit the telematics box to her new car. But Advantage said the earliest available  appointment 
was the day after the policy was set to cancel. It said as it had tried to contact Mrs M every 
day by telephone, it wouldnt be willing to stop the cancellation. 
Mrs M complained about this. She didnt think it was fair. She said she works during the day 
and Advantage  didnt  leave any messages or contact her any other way to arrange a time to 
fit the telematics box. She said once she received the notice  of cancellation she called to 
make an appointment  before the policy was due to cancel. 
Advantage thought it acted fairly. It said it was clear when the car was changed that a new 
telematics box would need  to be installed within 14 days. And it said it felt it did enough by  
calling Mrs M every  day for 15 days to try and arrange the fitting. It also waived the £45 
cancellation fee and deducted £50 from the outstanding balance. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our Investigator thought it should  be upheld. She 
thought Advantage had made it clear the box needed to be fitted within 14 days, and she 
thought it had made reasonable attempts to try and arrange this with Mrs M. But she also 
thought Mrs M had got in contact with Advantage after receiving notice the policy was going 
to cancel. So she thought it was unfair Advantage cancelled the policy because it didnt have 
an available appointment until after the cancellation  date. She said Advantage should record  
the policy as being cancelled by Mrs M. 
Advantage disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.  It said it did enough  to try 
and arrange the fitting of the box. It said if it allowed the appointment it be made the day 
after the policy was set to cancel, the box would have been fitted 22 days after adding  the 
car to the policy, not 14 as required.
Ref: DRN31560342I looked into the complaint and issued a provision decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms policy with Advantage say a black box needs  to be 
fitted on the car within 14 days. Im satisfied this is clear in the policy,  and Im satisfied 
Advantage let Mrs M know  this, both on her first car, and on her new car. 
Im also satisfied Advantage made  reasonable attempts to contact Mrs M to arrange for the 
box to be fitted on her new car. Ive seen a log of the attempted  calls and these were  made  
on different days at different times. That said,  it didnt  leave messages letting Mrs M know  
what the calls were  about. 
It follows then, that on balance, Im satisfied  Advantage  acted reasonably  when it issued 
Mrs M with a seven day notice of cancellation  after it wasnt  able to get in touch with her. 
But this notice of cancellation sent on 20 December says the policy  cancellation will take 
place at 00.59 on 27 December if the telematics box isnt installed by then. This implies  that 
if the box is installed before then,  then the policy wont be cancelled.  
Ive seen that Mrs M called Advantage on 20 December to arrange an appointment to fit the 
box. This,  coupled with the fact that Mrs Ms first car on the policy had the box fitted without  
issue, I think shows a genuine  willingness  to get the box fitted on her new car. 
Due to the festive  period, the earliest available date for an appointment was 28 December. I 
understand Advantages point that this would have  meant the box would have  been  fitted  
after 22 days, not 14 as the policy required. But the policy ran for 21 days without a box 
fitted, so I think it was unreasonable Advantage didnt allow another day. At this point,  the 
only thing stopping the box being  fitted before the policy  was due to cancel was Advantages 
availability, not Mrs Ms. So I dont  think its fair Advantage  cancelled  the policy when it did. I 
think the fairer  thing to do in the circumstances would have been to arrange an appointment 
to have the box fitted on 28 December.
As I dont think Advantage acted fairly when cancelling the policy  when it did, I need to 
consider what it needs to do to put things  right for Mrs M.
Mrs M made  a claim on her policy, so the full premium is owed to Advantage. This means 
Mrs M owes  Advantage £1,422.74. But, due to the change in car on Mrs Ms policy with 
Advantage, had Advantage not cancelled her policy, shed have owed  it £2,170.52.  
Mrs Ms also had to buy a new policy with a different insurer at a cost of £2,149.67. 
Mrs Ms policy with Advantage  was taken out on 16 October to run for a year. Her policy was 
cancelled at 00.59 on 27 December. This means Mrs M has had to pay for 293 days  of cover  
on her new policy she wouldnt have had to pay for, had Advantage not cancelled her policy  
when it did. This 293 days of cover  has cost Mrs M £1,725.63.
Ref: DRN31560343As it stands Mrs M owes £1,422.74 to Advantage and £1,725.63  to her new insurer for the 
same period  of cover. So shes being  asked to pay a total of £3,148.37 for the remaining 293 
days of cover. This means  Advantages error cost Mrs M £977.85. 
To put things right for Mrs M, Advantage should amend the outstanding balance by £977.85
to £444.89. 
This cancellation should also be recorded  as cancelled by Mrs M, not Advantage, so that
she doesnt have  to declare that shes had this policy cancelled  when  taking out insurance
policies in the future 
I think Advantage should also pay Mrs M £100  for the trouble and upset caused by having to
search for and take out a new policy much sooner than she was expecting to.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited.  To put things right for Mrs M I intend to required Advantage to:
Reduce Mrs Ms outstanding balance from £1,422.74  to £444.89
Record the policy as cancelled  by Mrs M
Pay Mrs M £100 in compensation
Following this decision, Advantage made no further  comment.
Mrs M replied and made the following points.
She wasnt allowed  to add a new car on to the policy
Advantage should have allowed more time as the installation of the telematics box 
fell over the Christmas period
The outcome  is till unfair as it leaves them with a balance to pay
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional  findings.
Im satisfied Mrs M was given the chance  to replace her car after it was written  off. This 
issue has stemmed from fitting  a telematics  box to that new car.
As explained above, Im of the opinion Advantage shouldnt have cancelled the policy when  
it did. This would  have allowed time for the telematics box to be fitted  on the new car.
Im satisfied requiring  Advantage  to reduce not waive  the outstanding balance  is fair on both 
Mrs M and Advantage  as explained in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN31560344My final decision
As explained above. I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. To put things right I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to:
Reduce Mrs Ms outstanding balance from £1,422.74  to £444.89
Record the policy as cancelled  by Mrs M
Pay Mrs M £100 in compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3156034