K820x#14complaint
Mr C says MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE)  refused to deal with a claim he made on 
his motorbike insurance policy and treated the policy  as though  it had never existed.
background
Mr C took the policy  out with MCE in April 2018  through a price  comparison website. His 
motorbike was stolen  from outside  his home in September  2018.  MCE said that when Mr C 
bought the policy, he said the bike would be kept in a locked garage overnight, which  wasnt 
correct, and that hed given  it the wrong details deliberately or recklessly. MCE said that 
meant it could avoid the policy and not consider the claim. Mr C said he had an unusual  
work situation and the bike was in secure airport parking for a substantial  part of the time. As 
there was no option that covered his situation,  he said he chose the closest  one to it.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Cs complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
thought hed misrepresented the facts,  but that the question he was asked wasnt  clear 
enough. She said he wasnt aware  that the bike must be stored in a locked garage at his 
home overnight, so she thought Mr C had only acted carelessly.  As MCE said it would have 
insured the bike anyway,  she said MCE should  reconsider  the claim and pay some of it, 
based on the proportion of the correct premium  that Mr C had paid.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It requires a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.  
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain  remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA  describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must  show it would only have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation.  
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or just careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate - and an insurer  can show  it would at 
least only have offered the policy  on different terms - its entitled to avoid the consumers 
policy. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it wont have to deal with any claims under 
it. If the qualifying  misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer  must 
show it wouldnt have offered the policy  at all but for the misrepresentation. 
Mr C was asked to choose an option  (driveway, locked garage or road) to describe where 
the bike was kept overnight. I think the question was clear enough. Mr C chose  locked 
garage - although from what  hes said, he didnt have a garage and the bike wasnt kept in 
one at any point.  The policys  Statement of Fact shows that he also said it was a brick 
garage. Mr C says the bike was in secure airport parking for 27% of the time. At other times 
he says it was left at work or in various  free public car parks. He says he thought that meant 
Ref: DRN30595942the bike was garaged.  I dont think most  consumers  would share  his view that these  
arrangements amounted  to keeping the bike overnight in a locked garage.  And in my 
opinion, it was clear  enough that MCE wanted to know where  the bike was usually kept 
overnight. I dont think Mr C took reasonable care to answer the question  correctly. 
MCE says Mr C had access to the policy documents (including  the policys  key facts  
summary) via a link available on its website  before  he bought the policy.  It has provided us 
with a copy of the key facts summary  for April 2018. The document says a garage is a 
locked structure  made  of brick, concrete, steel or stone,  which  is on a consumers private 
property. The definition  is also set out in the main policy  document. The Statement  of Fact 
shows that MCE thought the garage in which the bike was kept overnight was at Mr Cs 
home. That was based  on the details hed given in his application  for insurance, where  the 
only address set out was his home address. Even  if Mr C didnt  realise MCE thought the 
locked garage  was at his home address, the bike wasnt kept in a locked garage anywhere.   
Mr C accepts that from the outset he knew the option he chose didnt cover his 
circumstances. The documents later confirmed that MCE didnt know  the true facts. I think  
Mr C could reasonably  have been  expected to contact MCE to clarify his situation. He says 
the link to the key facts  document didnt work  but Id have expected  a reasonable 
consumer to have  queried that with MCE, given that the key facts  document  is such an 
important one. MCE says the link did work at the time (although it accepts  that it didnt for a 
while at some point later). And Mr C hasnt  said he couldnt access  the main  policy  
document, where the definition of a locked garage was also set out. 
Mr C told us he got a letter from MCE enclosing a new key facts  document  that it said was 
valid from October 2018. He said MCEs letter stated that the definition  of parking 
(overnight storage)  wasnt clear in previous documents. But Mr C hasnt provided the letter in 
question, despite our requests, and MCE says it doesnt know  what hes referring to. 
From what  Mr C has told us, he knew his bike wasnt mainly (or ever)  kept in a locked 
garage overnight even  before he saw the precise definition in the policy documents.  MCE 
has shown that the text in the April 2018 key facts document showed the definition clearly.  I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr C had access to the document when he took out the 
policy, as well as access to the other policy  documents  (whether he made use of that or not). 
He could also have  called  MCE, so I think he had the means  to clarify the situation. 
In my opinion, Mr C misrepresented the facts to MCE.  MCE has shown that had it known the 
true situation, it would still have offered him cover, but on different terms, so the information 
about where the bike was usually kept overnight  was relevant to it. I think  that means there 
was a qualifying  misrepresentation. Whether it was fair for MCE to avoid the policy  depends 
on whether it can show that Mr C acted deliberately or recklessly - knowing or not caring  
whether the information he gave it was true - and knowing or not caring whether it was 
relevant or not to MCE. 
Even if Mr Cs bike was left overnight in secure airport  parking for 27% of the time,  that isnt 
the same  as being  kept in a locked, brick  garage.  And the question  of where the bike was 
mainly kept overnight  remains open. According  to Mr C, it was sometimes  left in a car park 
at work, or in various free public  parking spaces.  He hasnt  said what  proportion of time the 
bike was kept in those locations overnight, but in any event, the locations dont satisfy the 
definition of a locked garage  either. 
Ref: DRN30595943From everything Mr C has said so far, I think its reasonable to assume that for most of the 
time, the bike was kept overnight on the road outside his home, from where it was stolen. In 
my opinion, it was reasonable for MCE to conclude that he acted recklessly in giving it the 
wrong overnight storage details, knowing (or not caring) whether it was right,  and knowing it 
was relevant to MCE, or not caring  whether it was or not. 
In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for MCE to avoid  the policy,  retain  the 
premium and not consider the claim, so I cant uphold Mr Cs complaint.         
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. MCE accepted them,  but Mr C 
didnt. He provided a copy  of a letter from MCE about the policy  wording changing in 
October 2018. Mr C said the new wording  didnt apply to his case,  as the theft took place in 
September 2018. And he repeated that the link to the key facts document  wasnt  working 
when he bought the policy.  Mr C also said that although he changed his job in May 2018, he 
was told he may still have to spend up to 30% of his time abroad.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The document Mr C has provided says that the wording relevant to this case  (the definition 
of a garage) was clarified  in April 2018. The definition set out is the same as the one MCE 
said applied  when  Mr C bought the policy. Although Mr C says MCE accepts that the link to 
the key facts document wasnt working, it says it was working when  he bought the policy. I 
dont think Mr C can show it wasnt. And he didnt  raise the issue  with MCE at the time. 
If Mr C was still required to spend  up to a third of his time abroad, then he would no doubt  
have parked the bike at the airport during those periods. But it still wasnt  in a locked garage 
at those times, and theres no evidence that it was ever stored in one.
As Im still of the view that MCE acted reasonably, I cant uphold Mr Cs complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case.  Under the Financial Ombudsman Services  
rules, I must ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 26 November 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3059594