K820x#14complaint
Mrs S, on behalf of Mr S, complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. (Mapfre) has rejected his claim under his travel insurance  
policy when he missed  a connecting flight abroad due to a delay with his bags being  
delivered off his incoming  flight.
background
Mr and Mrs S booked  a trip which involved an intercontinental  flight from the UK to Airport  A 
where they were  then to take a connecting flight to Airport B. They were due to spend  2 
nights at Destination  B before joining a 14 night  cruise.
Although their flight from the UK to Airport A with Airline A departed 38 minutes late, it made 
up the delay and arrived 13 minutes early.  There was a 1 hour 55 minute gap between their 
scheduled arrival time at Airport A and the scheduled departure  of their connecting  flight  to 
Destination B with Airline B.
Before they could board their connecting  flight,  they had to collect their bags from Airline As 
carousel and then place  them on the carousel of Airline B. There was a delay in their bags  
being delivered from the aircraft onto Airline As carousel. This delayed  them  in placing their 
bags on Airline Bs carousel and then going  through security. By the time they reached the 
departure gate for their connecting flight they were  too late to board. Their  bags, however, 
did make  it onto the aircraft.
Their connecting  airline placed them on standby  for a later flight the same day, but no seats 
were available. They were  then given flights for the following day (2 March) but both flights  
that day were cancelled due to bad weather. Because of the bad weather, the earliest flight 
they were able to get to Airport B was 4 March. This meant that they missed  their two night 
stay in Destination  B, and Part 1 of their cruise, which  was from 3  10 March.
So Mr and Mrs S were  stranded  in Destination A with only the clothes they were wearing and 
no toiletries until 4 March when they arrived in Destination B, where  they were reunited  with 
their bags. On 10 March they were able to join Part 2 of their cruise. They had to find and 
pay for new accommodation, some of which did not meet their expectations, and incurred a 
number of other expenses.
Mr S made a claim under  his travel  policy with Mapfre for the additional costs he and Mrs S 
had incurred.
Mapfre responded to Mr S rejecting his claim.  It referred him to the section of his policy  
(section 3) that relates to missed departures. This says:
You are covered: Up to the amount shown in the summary of cover on page 6 [£750]  for 
necessary hotel and travelling expenses incurred in reaching your booked destination, if the 
car you are travelling in breaks down or is involved in an accident or you being delayed  as a 
result of a major accident on a motorway or the public transport being used is delayed, 
resulting in you arriving late to commence your booked journey from or to your home 
country.
It stated that this section  did not apply to Mr Ss situation.
Ref: DRN34682652Mr S also argued that he had suffered a travel delay because  bad weather had forced  the 
flights on which he was re-booked to get to Airport  B to be cancelled, and he should 
therefore receive the benefits of that section.
Mapfre also responded that this section didnt apply to Mr Ss position.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator reviewed the terms of Mr Ss 
policy and came to the conclusion  that it doesnt  cover  the situation  in which  he and Mrs S 
very unfortunately found themselves, and was of the view that he couldnt  recommend  that 
Mapfre settle Mr Ss claim.
Mr S, through Mrs S, has requested that his complaint now be considered by an 
ombudsman for a final decision. His complaint has therefore now been referred to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I have great  sympathy with 
Mr and Mrs S for the situation in which they found  themselves,  which must have caused 
them very considerable upset, Im not able to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly I considered the Missed Departure  section (section 3) of Mr Ss policy, as that is at the 
heart of this complaint  Mr and Mrs S missed the departure of the flight from Airport  A to 
Airport B because there  was a delay in their bags arriving off their flight  from the UK. Ive 
quoted this section above.
Unfortunately for Mr S, the problem  with this section from their point of view is twofold.  
Firstly, it specifically relates to missed departures caused by travel disruption.  It doesnt  
mention missed departures due to delays to baggage  or for any other reason other than 
travel disruption. Secondly, and more significantly,  it only covers delays arising from arriving  
late to commence their journey from their  home country.  Mr  and Mrs Ss delay wasnt  a 
travel related  delay,  and wasnt  a delay to their departure from the UK. So it my opinion  it 
doesnt apply.
Secondly, I looked  at section 4 of Mr Ss policy which covers Travel Delay.  Unfortunately  I 
dont consider that this assists Mr S either,  because it says (my emphasis added):
If your outward or return flights,  ..to or from your  home  country are delayed  for 
more than 12 hours beyond the intended  departure timeas a result of .b) adverse 
weather conditions..
So it only applies to the delay of a flight to or from the UK, and Mr Ss flight  from the UK 
wasnt delayed. The flight that was delayed because of bad weather was Mr Ss connecting 
flight, which wasnt from the UK.
Ive looked at other sections of the policy to see if there are any other  sections that might 
assist Mr S, but the two Ive referred to above  are the only ones that might have covered the 
nature of the delay that Mr and Mrs S suffered.
So unfortunately for Mr and Mrs  S, Im unable  to uphold Mrs Ss complaint as the policy 
doesnt provide  cover  for this situation,  and I dont  consider that Mapfre  has acted 
unreasonably in referring to the wording  of his policy and rejecting the claim. Our investigator 
Ref: DRN34682653has suggested some other  sources for possible redress  for the distress and upset this 
situation would inevitably have caused.
my final decision
My decision  is that Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint on behalf  of Mr S and I dont require 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3468265