K821x#15complaint
Miss N has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly decided to pay only a 
proportion of her claim, which she made under her annual travel policy.
References to IPA include all its agents.
background
Miss N was abroad and fell ill, developing meningitis in April 2018. The local hospital  where  
she was being  treated  was very crowded. She said her partner and the medical assistance 
team of IPA agreed she could transfer  to a local private hospital. 
IPA said this transfer to the private hospital was on a disclaimer basis, but Miss Ns partner 
disputes this. On the basis of the costs  of the private  hospital  Miss Ns claim with IPA is quite 
substantive being in the region of over £30,000.  IPA paid this at the time.
After Miss N made  her claim, IPA said had it been  aware of her medical history it would not 
have offered the policy she bought,  as it wouldnt  have been able to insure her under that 
level of cover. The policy she would have been offered carried  a higher premium and as a 
consequence, it would only pay 17.5% of her claim.  So it then wanted her to repay  it the 
other 82.5% of her hospital  costs, which it had paid. It did agree its service to her could have 
been better and paid her £100  compensation.
Miss N was very unhappy and complained but IPA wouldnt change its stance. So Miss N 
brought her complaint  to us. The adjudicator  was of the view that IPAs decision  on the claim 
couldnt be changed but it should  permit Miss N to repay the 82.5% of the claim by a 
repayment plan and it should  increase the compensation to a total of £250. 
Miss N didnt agree so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May and I said the following:
First, I want to apologise for the extensive  length  of time it has taken us to deal with 
Miss Ns complaint. This has been out of my remit but I am very sorry Miss N has 
had to wait such  a long time.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Representations and Disclosure)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
the consumer  at the time of applying  for the policy has a duty to take reasonable care 
to answer all the questions asked, honestly  so as not to make  any 
misrepresentations to the insurer. 
If the insurer thinks the consumer hasnt answered  the questions  properly, it then has 
to assess, given all the circumstances of the particular case, whether a 
misrepresentation of the kind covered under  CIDRA has occurred. If so, its called a 
qualifying misrepresentation. This means  that had the insurer known the correct 
answers to the questions  it asked, it wouldnt have offered the policy  to the consumer 
on the terms it did, or possibly wouldnt have offered a policy at all.
If a qualifying misrepresentation occurred  at the application  process,  CIDRA then 
details what remedies are available to the insurer. But first, it needs to be determined  
whether the misrepresentation was deliberate  or reckless, or careless. If a 
Ref: DRN34821832misrepresentation cant be classed as deliberate or reckless, its then deemed  
careless. 
Here Miss N brought her policy on line and it started on 17 March 2017.  The policy 
then renewed again  in March 2018  and of course  Miss N fell ill in April 2018 so 
during the second policy year that she held this policy. So I will only concern myself 
with the renewal process here in this complaint.
When her policy renewed in March 2018,  IPA detailed in its renewal invite  in the 
Important Information  section as follows:
Please be aware  that your current insurance policy will not be suitable for 
renewal if anyone you wish to insure on the policy  has:
(a) Suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed medication or 
treatment including  surgery, tests  or investigations within the last 5 years; 
and/or
(b) Is awaiting a diagnosis, treatment,  tests or investigations for any medical  
condition, or suffering symptoms that have  not yet been discussed with a 
doctor. 
If either  of the above situations  apply,  please  let us know as your cover  
maybe affected. 
It is also important that you let us know of changes to the health of close  
relatives or other third parties  upon whom  a trip may depend, as non-
disclosure may affect the cover provided by your policy. Please contact us by 
email [email address] or telephone [number] and we will be pleased to assist  
you. 
Further information is provided within the Policy  Wording under the section 
Important Conditions Relating  to Health and can be accessed by following 
the link below.
IPA said Miss N failed to tell it at this renewal her medical information. It said from 
looking at her medical and notes  and records following her claim, she suffered from 
the following:
17.11.17 - reflux  
11.10.17 - joint pain
12.09.17 - dislocated finger 
05.09.17 - URTI
28.03.17 - thrush
28.01.18 - anxiety
11.08.17 - sleeping problems 
IPA said all these conditions had been  treated. It also considered issues of 
fibromyalgia or fibroadenoma, which werent  treated, so it later discounted them. On 
this basis, it appears that it assumed Miss Ns non-disclosure  was a qualifying  non-
disclosure under CIDRA. This is because  it said the cover type Miss N had selected 
Ref: DRN34821833for cover, namely its Bronze policy wouldnt provide any cover  for her, as it simply 
doesnt provide  cover  for anyone  with any medical history in the last five years. 
IPA said had Miss N disclosed her medical  conditions it would have been able to 
offer her its Silver policy. It applied the remedy available to it in the case  of careless 
misrepresentation. However,  the premium for the Silver policy  was more than Miss N 
had paid. Miss N had paid £27.97 for the Bronze cover.  IPA said it would have 
charged her £163.07 for the Silver  policy.
However, in the circumstances  here I dont consider it was fair or reasonable for IPA 
to decide these were  conditions  it should  have taken into account given the process  
of its renewal invitation. Ill now explain why.
Dealing first with the renewal process,  I consider the detail above  in the Important  
Information on the renewal invitation  to be clear enough. However,  the renewal 
document says further information is provided in the policy document  under the 
section Important Conditions Relating to Health. On page 11, it says the following: 
Important conditions relating to health
Important conditions relating to health (for claims under Sections A, B, C)
PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS POLICY  DOES NOT  COVER PRE- EXISTING  
MEDICAL CONDITIONS
This insurance is designed to cover you for unforeseen accidents and 
illnesses occurring during the period of insurance.
You must comply  with the following conditions to make  sure your cover is not 
affected. If you do not comply with these conditions we may cancel the policy  
or refuse to deal with your claim or reduce the amount of any claim payment.
1. At the time of taking  out this policy you will not be covered for any claim 
arising directly or indirectly from:
a) any medical condition you have, or have had, for which you are taking or 
have been taking prescribed medication;  and
b) any medical condition you have, or have had, for which you are waiting 
to receive, or have  received  treatment (including  surgery, tests or 
investigations) within  the last 5 years.
For your  information, examples of conditions that can be indirectly linked to 
any medical condition  you have,  or have had include: 
someone with breathing  difficulties who then suffers a chest infection of any 
kind; someone with high blood  pressure  or diabetes who then has a heart 
attack, stroke or mini-stroke;
someone who has or has had cancer  who suffers with a secondary  cancer;
someone with osteoporosis who then suffers with a broken or fractured bone.
c) any medical condition for which you have  received a terminal  prognosis;
d) any medical condition you are aware of but for which you have not had a 
diagnosis;
e) any medical condition for which you are on a waiting list;
Ref: DRN34821834f) any medical condition for which you know you need surgery  or treatment;
g) any medical condition for which you are awaiting the results from any 
tests or investigations;
h) any medical condition affecting  you, that you are aware of, that could 
reasonably be expected  to result in a claim on this policy.
i) any medical condition affecting a third party , that you are aware of, that 
could reasonably be expected to result in a claim on this policy.
For your  information, examples include but are not limited to;
A third party who has received  a terminal prognosis;
A third party who is receiving or waiting for hospital investigation or 
treatment for an undiagnosed  condition
or a set of symptoms;
A third party who is receiving inpatient treatment;
A third party who has an existing medical condition or illness, that has 
presented new or a change to symptoms.
2. At any time you will not be covered  for any claim arising directly or 
indirectly from:
a) any medical condition you have in respect of which a medical 
practitioner has advised you not to travel  or would have done so had you 
sought his/her advice
b) any surgery, treatment or investigations for which  you intend to travel  
outside of your home area to receive(including any expenses incurred due to 
the discovery of other medical conditions  during  and/or  complications  
arising from these procedures)
c) any medical condition for which you are not taking the recommended  
treatment or prescribed medication  as directed  by a medical practitioner
d) your travel against any health  requirements stipulated by the carrier,  their 
handling agents or any other public transport  provider.
3. Our travel  policies are offered on the understanding that you are fit to 
travel on the day the policy is issued.  If your  health  changes after the 
purchase of your policy and/or the date your travel tickets or confirmation of 
booking were issued,  you should telephone [number to discuss how this may 
affect your  cover.
Please telephone [number] if you have any concerns regarding your fitness 
to travel.
You should  also refer to What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the 
policy on page 12.
The policy conditions at page 11 of the policy  document talk of medical conditions.  
Miss N didnt consider  she had any medical  conditions, which  were  ongoing,  or of 
any concern to her at the time that her policy renewed. She considered her medical 
issues to be minor ailments,  which  either didnt amount  to any medical condition or 
were quickly  treated and sorted out. She didnt perceive any of them  were  serious  or 
concerning.
Nevertheless in order  to determine whether it was reasonable for Miss N to answer  
as she did Ive carefully considered the reason she has given for not disclosing the 
various entries in her medical notes.  Dealing  with each in turn, 
Ref: DRN3482183517.11.17  reflux - Miss N said this didnt turn out to be a condition  following 
her consultation with an ENT specialist. She merely given  some advice.
11.10.17 - joint pain  the evidence is clear that no diagnosis  for this could be 
found and all the blood and tests and other tests were in the normal range.
12.09.17 - dislocated finger  co-codomal was prescribed  and her finger  
healed.
05.09.17  URTI  this clear up following treatment as upper respiratory 
infections tend to do.
28.03.17  thrush   this also cleared up after treatment. 
28.01.18  anxiety  Miss N said she told her doctors she was no longer 
taking this as she felt it was no longer required.
11.08.17 - sleeping problems  she was prescribed amitriptyline but she 
stopped taking it before the last recorded prescription and it wasnt prescribed 
for any medical condition. 
Whether a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is 
to be determined in the light of all the relevant  circumstances. I find that the above 
policy conditions coupled  with the renewal invite contents read together may well 
cause confusion as to what the insurer wants to know. 
It follows that I cant conclude Miss N failed to take reasonable care in renewing her 
policy. She didnt consider  she had medical  conditions that needed to be disclosed.
 
The policy does make it clear that it doesnt  offer cover for pre-existing medical  
conditions. But there is no suggestion here that viral meningitis from which Miss N 
suffered was pre-existing or related  to any of the conditions that IPA feels  Miss N 
should have mentioned.
Therefore, I consider  IPA should now cease  to request Miss N repays any proportion 
of her claim. 
IPA admitted  its service  failings to Miss N and paid her £100. This was for various 
failings in repatriation  and prompt decision making. I consider that was reasonable 
and make no further award in this regard.
Miss N accepted my provisional decision. However,  she pointed out she had a claim for 
further medical expenses  which wasnt dealt with given IPA stance on the matter and 
therefore wanted to know if this could  be dealt with.
IPA was of the view that, I hadnt taken the policy type into account.  This is because Miss N 
had taken medication for her sleeping problems, the URTI  and anxiety and that it said  
before being presenting the terms and conditions that the policy will not be suitable for 
renewal if anyone you wish to insure on the policy  has suffered any medical condition which 
required prescribed medication  or treatment. And it wanted this to be taken  into account in 
my determination.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34821836I disagree with IPA that I havent taken the policy type into account.  I detailed the full clause 
it now relies on in my provisional decision, as I explained the policy  conditions  coupled with 
the renewal invite  contents  may well cause confusion as to what IPA wanted to know. 
Consequently, it followed that I didnt conclude  Miss N failed to take reasonable care in 
renewing her policy. This is because  she didnt consider she had any medical conditions she 
needed to disclose. 
And I remain of that view.
Miss N said she had further medical expenses,  which  failed to be considered given IPAs 
stance on the matter. Obviously as I have concluded  her policy  covers  her to the limits of its 
cover, I consider  IPA should  now consider whatever other medical  expenses  Miss N 
believes should be part of her claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.  
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require I require  Inter Partner  Assistance SA to the following:
Cease any requests for Miss N to repay any proportion of her claim that it has 
already paid.
Consider any further  claim arising out of this incident, which  Miss N now submits  in 
accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3482183