K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A nearly  new car was supplied to Mr M under  a hire purchase agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services that he signed in August 2017.  He noticed an issue with the cars  
headlights and he mentioned it when  the car had a manufacturers service in December 
2017. The cars headlights were  replaced  in January  2018 but Mr M says that the 
replacement headlights  are no better. He had discussions with the dealer, another dealer 
and BMW Financial Services and he obtained a quote for ending his agreement.  BMW 
Financial Services sent its final response to Mr M in June 2018 and said that it was unable to 
accept his rejection  of the car but it offered to refund two monthly payments under the 
agreement to him - totalling £1,570 - as compensation for the experience  that hed had. That 
amount was paid to Mr M in September 2018 but he continued to be unhappy with the 
headlights on his car so he complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
there was enough  evidence  to show that the car has a manufacturing  defect. But he said 
that if Mr M provided independent evidence to show that the car has defective headlights, he 
would review the position. He said that Mr M first raised the issue with BMW Financial 
Services in March 2018 and it issued a final response letter in June 2018.  And he thought  
that the compensation that it had paid to Mr M was adequate for any delays in its handling of 
the matter. He also said that Mr M has been  able to have  trouble free use of the car since it 
was supplied to him (but he understood the issue with night time driving) so he didnt  think 
that he could fairly  ask BMW Financial  Services to pay any further compensation to Mr M. 
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
if BMW Financial Services had responded in a timely manner the dealer  wouldve 
been able to deal with the issue and an amicable solution wouldve been reached;
other owners have  complained about the same  issue and he has provided 
information from online  forums to show this; and
the issue with the headlights means that the car is unsafe to drive and not fit for 
purpose;
and hes provided  a time line of events relating to his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M clearly feels strongly that there  is an issue with the headlights  on the car that was 
supplied to him by BMW Financial Services. The invoice for the car shows that it had only 
driven 41 miles before it was supplied to Mr M and he says that he received the car at the 
beginning of September 2017. But theres  no evidence to show  that he contacted the dealer 
(or BMW Financial Services) about an issue with the cars headlights until after it was taken 
to a different  dealer for a routine service in December 2017. The headlights were changed 
by that dealer without charge to Mr M. But he says that the replacement headlights have the 
same issue.
Ref: DRN31593602The dealer  compared the headlights on Mr Ms car with those on an equivalent car and says 
that the headlights are the same. And it says that there's  no manufacturing fault with the 
headlights and that the headlights are working correctly. Mr M doesnt agree. The 
investigator invited  Mr M to have the headlights  inspected by an independent  expert but 
Mr M hasnt  done so. Mr M has provided evidence from online forums to show  that other  
drivers have complained  about the headlights  on similar cars. But I dont consider that that 
evidence is enough  to show that theres  a fault with Mr Ms cars  headlights.  And Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres an issue  with the cars 
headlights, that the cars unsafe  to drive or that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality or fit for 
purpose when  it was supplied to Mr M. 
Mr M complained to BMW Financial Services in March 2018 and it sent him its final 
response in June 2018. I can understand Mr Ms frustration  at the delay in responding to his 
complaint  and he will have been caused some distress and inconvenience. And he says 
that the delay  has prevented him from agreeing  an amicable solution with the dealer and that 
he tried to negotiate a better price with the dealer but wasnt  successful. Im not persuaded 
that BMW Financial Services  was required to become involved in those negotiations. But it 
has refunded £1,750  to Mr M (which is two monthly payments under the agreement)  and I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable compensation for any distress  and inconvenience, or 
any other loss, that hes been caused  by its delay.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  BMW 
Financial Services to allow Mr M to reject the car or to pay him any further compensation  
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3159360