K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy that her Nationwide  Building  Society credit  card is blocked when she uses 
it abroad forcing her to call it every  time she wants to use it.
background
Nationwide said that a number of factors can cause transactions  to be blocked. It cannot 
prevent this happening  as its fraud  system is entirely  automated. It used to ask customers to 
tell it when they went abroad. But this didnt make  a noticeable difference so it decided to 
stop its notification  process. Even though Ms S told it of her travel  plans and transactions 
she would  make abroad this wouldnt affect the automated  process or guarantee a block 
wont be placed on the card. This may also happen again particularly if shes travelling in 
high risk countries.  
Nationwide said in its final response that it was prepared  to reimburse £64 for the costs  Ms S 
had incurred as a gesture of goodwill. But it cant offer her any compensation.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Nationwides required to protect  its customers from fraud. One of the ways it can do 
this is to place  a block on a card to prevent fraudulent transactions. Its entitled to 
have in place  procedures to protect  its customers.
From  April 2017 Nationwide  says it stopped requiring customers to tell it when they 
were travelling  abroad because it considers its fraud  detection  systems can detect 
the difference between fraudulent and genuine transactions.  
In May 2017 Ms S sent Nationwide an online message about her travel  plans  and 
planned withdrawals.  Nationwide responded and said she didnt need to notify  it of 
her travel  plans and its fraud detection  systems may put a temporary restriction  on 
her card until it can confirm the validity of a transaction. 
It also said it would send a text message to her if a block occurred. Here Nationwide  
wasnt aware of a mobile number  for Ms S. But itd sufficiently told her of the risks of 
a block and that she should  have  an alternative method of access  to money while  
abroad. There wasnt more it couldve done.
Nationwides offer to cover Ms S costs is fair and she cant ask it to pay anymore.
Ms S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary  she says she 
thinks Nationwide has a policy of blocking  transactions  to force  the customer  to contact it. 
This is to protect Nationwide  not its customers. She says the pattern of blocking has 
changed since she made her complaint. But she still remains  unhappy  that some 
transactions have  been blocked. Shed like reimbursement of more costs she incurred.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34377352Ms S has provided detailed submissions to support her complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I think Nationwide reasonably explained  to Ms S why her account  might be blocked  by its 
automated security system. I note Ms S thinks the pattern of blocking has changed recently. 
That may well be the case but its up to Nationwide  to determine how its security systems 
work.
Nationwide has an obligation  to protect  itself and its customers from fraud. And how it 
achieves this is a matter of it exercising its commercial judgement in which  we wouldnt 
interfere.
Ms S remains particularly unhappy about  some blocks having  been applied to money  
transfer transactions she tried to make. I understand her frustration at this but I dont  think 
Nationwide has done anything wrong  by placing  blocks on her account if it considered those 
transactions to be potentially fraudulent.
I also think Nationwide explained  to Ms S in sufficient detail how its security  system works, 
when blocks may be applied to her account  and what to do if that happened.  It also
suggested to Ms S that she have available an alternate method of making transactions in 
case her account was blocked.  That was clearly sensible advice which,  if followed,  would 
ensure any inconvenience and loss would be mitigated.
Ms S seems unhappy with Nationwides fraud policy and processes generally. But this 
service isnt a regulator. We cant fine or punish a business or require it to change its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority.
I recognise that the blocks placed  on Ms S account wouldve been  frustrating  for her and 
caused some inconvenience. But taking everything  into account I dont think  Nationwide  has 
made an error or done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  it 
to pay any more of her expenses or any compensation as shed like. 
Overall I think  Nationwides  offer to refund  £64 to her as a goodwill gesture is fair. And I dont  
see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3437735