K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired  via a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
In August  2018  Mr M acquired  a new car via a four-year hire purchase agreement  with 
VWFS. Mr M says that within short time he complained to the dealership about a gear 
selection fault he was experiencing intermittently when driving.  He says he was advised this 
would settle down over time.
In October  2018 Mr M took the car to the dealership for it to investigate the problem with the 
gears. The intermittent  issue  with the gears was noted during a test drive and VWFS says 
that Mr M was asked whether hed agree to a strip down of the gearbox  to identify the fault 
and declined  this option. The gearbox  selector  cables were  adjusted and the car returned to 
Mr M after a further test drive.
Mr M says that within a short time the issue with the gearbox re-occurred. He booked the car 
in with another manufacturers approved garage  for investigation. Following a test drive it 
was noted that there was a very intermittent  fault with the gear selection. The engineer  
noted that Mr M was reluctant to authorise  a strip down of gearbox as fault was reported 
soon after delivery . No repair was carried  out by the dealership.
Mr M complained to VWFS  and said that he wanted to reject  the car due to the ongoing fault. 
VWFS didnt  uphold his complaint. It said that the second dealership  hadnt  been able to 
replicate the fault but if he had any further issues he should take the car back to a 
manufacturer approved garage.
Mr M complained to this service. Our adjudicator pointed out to VWFS that the second 
dealership had noted the gear selection  fault. VWFS said that the cars gearbox needed to 
be stripped to fully investigate the issue but Mr M hadnt agreed  to this so it hadnt been 
given the option of repairing the car. It said it would be unfair for Mr M to be entitled  to reject 
the car without it having the opportunity to investigate and repair the problem.
l
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  He said under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 goods supplied must be of satisfactory  quality. Here  Mr M had 
acquired a new car that had needed  repair shortly afterwards. Our adjudicator  said on the 
evidence he didnt think the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator also said that although  the first repair  carried out in October had been a 
minor adjustment this had been an attempt to fix the defect and so it was reasonable to 
consider that as an attempt to repair the car. This had been  unsuccessful as Mr M 
experienced the same issue with the gears  a short time afterwards. 
Our adjudicator said he didnt think Mr M wasnt being unreasonable  in declining  to have the 
cars gearbox stripped as this was an invasive diagnostic test. Potentially the car could 
require a new gearbox and he thought it would be unfair for Mr M to be expected  to accept 
such a large repair to a new car.
Our adjudicator said it had been  raised that the issue with the gearbox could be due to 
Mr Ms driving style. He said VWFS  had accepted the car needed  investigation and so it 
Ref: DRN31839632appeared to have accepted there was an issue with the car. Our adjudicator said there  
wasnt evidence to say the gearbox  selection problem was due to driving style.
Our adjudicator said it would be fair for Mr M to reject the car, cancel the agreement and be 
reimbursed his deposit with interest.
VWFS disagreed with the view of our adjudicator. It said Mr M had been advised by the first 
dealership that had repaired  the car that the gearbox would need to be stripped down to 
address the issue.  Mr M had declined this course of action despite  advice to the contrary.  
The position  had always been that the gearbox merited  deeper investigation and this had 
been offered to Mr M. It said that it should  have the opportunity to perform  the repair before 
the car could  be rejected for not being  of satisfactory  quality.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement in this case is a hire purchase agreement and as such is a regulated 
consumer  credit agreement and this service  is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
In law VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and so is 
responsible for a complaint  about  their quality.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that under  a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that "the quality of the goods  is satisfactory".  And that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory  if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description  of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances. Here  the car was new and so I think a reasonable person would expect it to 
be faultless and that it wouldnt require any maintenance  or repair  for a reasonable period of 
time.
Ive seen that its agreed that with within a short  period of time Mr M had experienced an 
issue with gear selection. This was an intermittent fault but both dealerships that test drove 
the car noted  the same issue that Mr M had complained  about.  I think its agreed the car had 
an inherent fault at the point of sale and so wasnt of satisfactory quality. I noted that driving 
style was raised but I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt evidence  that this is the 
cause of the issue with the gearbox. VWFS also says the issue  needs a full investigation that 
will include  a stripping  down of the gearbox  itself.
As the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the law says that the supplier 
should be provided with an opportunity to fix a fault. VWFS says that its been denied  this 
opportunity by Mr Ms decision to decline the gearbox being stripped down. It says Mr M has 
been given this advice by both dealerships  and that the initial  repair was simply a minor  
adjustment and so its unfair to say this was a failed repair  attempt. 
However, I think its important to note that the stripping down of the gearbox is an 
investigation not a repair. And I think its reasonable to consider that as a significant 
invasive investigation  and the outcome of which would be uncertain.  Its possible the car 
might require a new gearbox  which would be a substantial repair for a new car.
Ref: DRN31839633So I think Mr Ms reluctance  to have this investigation undertaken was understandable and 
reasonable. And Im not surprised that he opted  to have the minor adjustment tried first. I 
think that if the car required a substantial repair so close to the point of sale that Mr M would 
be acting reasonably in declining it and asking to reject the car.
I also think that a repair  attempt has been  made. Just because  it was a minor adjustment 
didnt mean  that it didnt  have the potential to fix the issue. I presume it was carried out on 
the suggestion of the dealership. I also think it was sensible to attempt this first.
So looking  at the evidence Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
sale. I also think that VWFS has had an opportunity to repair  the issue  with the gearbox that 
wasnt successful. I dont  think its reasonable that Mr M is expected to allow  VWFS to now 
conduct an extensive investigation to try and find the fault and then repair  it. I think  its 
reasonable for Mr M to reject the car and cancel the agreement.
Mr M has asked  that he is also reimbursed for the cost of the cars first service that has been  
recently carried out and the subsequent  repairs  to the shock absorbers that were identified  
as being required  during  that service. But as Mr M has been able to use the car I dont think 
its fair to require VWFS to repay  these  costs. I think they arise from the normal use of the 
car and Mr M, even though rejecting the car, would be required to cover the costs of usage 
of the vehicle. This would  include maintenance and repairs  arising  from wear  and tear. Ive 
seen that under the agreement it was Mr Ms responsibility to keep the car in good  repair  
while it was in his possession.
I also dont have any evidence that the repairs to the shock  absorbers were due to them  
having an inherent fault and looking at the amount of time and mileage since  the point of 
sale I think this appears  to be unlikely. Shock absorbers are serviceable items and are 
affected by wear and tear so I think  this repair is more  likely than not to be a standard  
maintenance issue.
As set out above Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint  and Im asking  VWFS to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M
Reimburse Mr Ms deposit together with interest from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Im asking Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M
Reimburse Mr M his deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple  
from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Ref: DRN31839634Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3183963