K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited has wrongly removed total and 
permanent disability benefit from his policy.
background 
Mr B took out a term assurance policy with Aviva  in January 2015. Included with the policy 
was a benefit for total and permanent  disability (TPD).
In November 2015, Mr B experienced  back pain that was severe enough  to prevent him 
working. He was signed off from work  and has been unable to return  since. He submitted a 
claim to Aviva under the TPD section of his policy, as his doctors agreed his condition was 
permanent and unlikely  to significantly improve.
Aviva investigated the claim and initially  felt that Mr B had misrepresented  the nature of his 
work when  he applied for the policy. In 2015 (and indeed for most  of his working life), Mr B 
was employed as an operations department practitioner (ODP), assisting in surgical theatre. 
His work had a significant manual component in that he had to move  unconscious  patients  
and assist with cleaning the theatre during and after use.
In his application form, which was completed  on Mr Bs behalf by a financial advisor, Mr Bs 
job title was given  as managing director, with no manual labour required in the role. Aviva  
said that had it known the true nature of his employment, it would have applied  different 
terms to the TPD benefit  which it then proceeded to do as a retrospective endorsement.
Mr B complained to Aviva about  this decision  and the complaint was eventually referred to 
this service. We didnt uphold the complaint  and recommended that Aviva should  consider 
the claim based on the new TPD terms.
Having done so, Aviva is now of the opinion that Mr B misrepresented  the nature and extent 
of his back condition  when he applied for the policy. In particular, it says he didnt disclose 
that he was waiting for an appointment with a spinal surgeon following a referral  in 
November 2014.  It also says Mr B had understated the severity  of his condition.  Had Mr B 
given what Aviva feels are the correct  details, it wouldnt have offered  the TPD benefit.  So it 
now says there is no possible claim.
Mr B again  complained to Aviva and the complaint was passed  to this service.  One of our 
investigators reviewed the information and didnt uphold the complaint. They agreed that it 
appeared Mr B was waiting for a referral but didnt disclose that in his application. So they 
didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably.
Mr B didnt accept this view, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.  On 
8 April 2019 I issued  a provisional  decision (an extract from which is attached  and forms part 
of this decision) explaining why I thought Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. 
Further to my provisional decision, Aviva asked for some further information, which  Mr B was 
able to provide.  Both Aviva and Mr B now accept my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN37348702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted the 
findings in my provisional decision, I see no reason to change  them.
It should be noted that my decision to uphold Mr Bs complaint doesnt  automatically mean  
any claim he makes  should be successful. I expect Aviva to fairly assess  Mr Bs health 
conditions against  the terms of his policy. Should Mr B have any concerns about this 
process or the claim decision, he will need  to make  a new complaint to Aviva  in the first 
instance.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  should  consider Mr Bs claim 
against the TPD benefit, using the Activities  of Daily Living  definition. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should  contact Mr B within 28 days  of this decision to start 
the claims process and request any information it needs to consider the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37348703EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It should be noted that Aviva has had considerable problems getting  hold of Mr Bs full 
medical records, as he hasnt been  willing to release  these. Id like to assure Aviva that Mr B 
has given me his reasons for non-disclosure, in confidence, and I am satisfied these are 
valid and unconnected to his TPD claim.  Records  related to his back  have been provided 
and I think these are sufficient to answer  the misrepresentation question  at the heart  of this 
complaint.
I also understand that Aviva considers Mr B to have  misrepresented his job role and that this 
in part informs its approach to his medical  information. But the two issues are separate and 
I dont agree that Mr Bs testimony should  be discounted due to previous inaccuracies. 
Instead, Ive carefully  weighed  all the evidence to reach a decision  on the balance of 
probabilities.
Mr B consulted his GP in August  2014  complaining of lower  back pain. The GPs notes 
suggest that he attributed this to being overweight and handling dead weights as part of his 
work. Nevertheless, the doctor referred  him for an MRI scan, which was carried  out in 
October 2014. That scan diagnosed spondylolisthesis, an issue  with the vertebrae  in his 
back. Following his diagnosis, in November  2014 Mr B was referred for an appointment  with 
a spinal surgeon. The first contemporaneous note of any such  appointment is from 
January 2016,  after Mr B had been signed off from work with increasing pain.
The policy application was completed  in December 2014, with commencement  in January 
2015. Aviva  has pointed to two questions it feels Mr B answered incorrectly,  which  Ill 
address in turn.
In response to a question  about medical  attention  and investigations, Mr B disclosed he had 
a prolapsed disc that had started  in October  2014. Although Mr B has a clear  recollection of 
spelling out spondylolisthesis to his financial advisor, so his condition could be accurately 
recorded, it seems that it was translated into laymans terms as a prolapsed disc. Having 
checked Avivas underwriting guidance, it doesnt appear this would have  made any 
difference to the follow up questions or the terms on which cover would have been offered.
Aviva then asked Are you awaiting hospital referral, investigation or surgery  for this 
condition?.  Mr B answered  No.  Aviva feels this was incorrect,  as Mr B had been referred 
to a spinal  surgeon  in November 2014  and attended an appointment in January 2016.
Mr Bs explained that during late 2014 and most  of 2015, he was asymptomatic  the 
spondylolisthesis didnt  cause him any problems. In his role as ODP he worked with the 
spinal surgeon  and so the two went through the scans  together in November  2014.  The 
surgeon, Mr V, has written a supporting letter to this effect, adding that at that stage the 
condition was well controlled and I had suggested  conservative treatment only. In late 2015 
Mr B became increasingly affected  by the spondylolisthesis and so made  an appointment to 
see Mr V again.
Ref: DRN37348704Avivas said its not happy to accept Mr Vs letter, as its dated some years  after the event 
and Mr V was a work colleague  of Mr Bs. However,  I note that Mr V has written  the letter in 
his professional capacity as a consultant orthopaedic surgeon,  not as a colleague of Mr B. 
And Im not persuaded that he would misrepresent the truth in this capacity, given the 
professional standards hes held to and the potential consequences for not meeting these. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think his account is untrue. Indeed,  I think  it more likely 
that Mr V and Mr B informally reviewed  the MRI results together and agreed no significant 
action was necessary,  rather than Mr B waiting 14 months for an appointment to discuss  
abnormal scan results.
Overall then, I accept Mr Bs position that in December 2014 and January 2015  he wasnt 
waiting for an appointment  because hed already  had one and been recommended  
conservative treatment only, as attested by Mr V. So I dont think he answered the question 
incorrectly.
The second  question Aviva believes was answered incorrectly relates  to the severity of 
Mr Bs condition.  It asks Which of the following best describes the severity  of your 
condition?.  There were five options to choose  from, ranging from fully recovered to 
significant  restrictions in activities and pastimes. Mr B answered that his condition was 
ongoing,  with no restrictions in lifestyle or mobility.
Avivas said its clear  Mr B had a chronic back problem and so it would have  expected him to 
disclose that there  were  some restrictions caused by his condition. But I dont agree the 
medical evidence  supports  this. Mr B visited his GP once about  his back  pain, which resulted 
in an MRI referral and subsequent diagnosis. He wasnt  signed  off work at that time, being  
able to continue  his occupation, including manual  duties, for a year following diagnosis.  The 
notes from his surgeon say his condition was well controlled in November 2014, suggesting 
it wasnt causing significant problems at that point. So from everything  Ive seen, I think in 
December 2014  Mr B was right to say it was an ongoing condition but not one that was 
troubling him at that time.
It follows that I dont think there  was a misrepresentation in this case. This being so, I dont 
agree its fair for Aviva to now withdraw  the TPD benefit.
Ref: DRN3734870