K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business  as Halifax in my decision. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs B for accident, sickness  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £400 a month towards Mrs Bs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £20.24  per month.  
At the time,  Mrs B was employed as a social  worker.  She has told us she was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay, death  in service benefit worth twice her annual salary and 
redundancy pay through her employer.  Shes  also told us that she had life cover and 
savings.
Mrs B has told us about a medical condition that occurred  after the sale but Mrs B has said 
she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004.
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully.
In summary,  Mrs Bs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and 
Ref: DRN32989372The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have been sent the adjudicators 
opinion. Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN32989373I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint.      
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out in DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs B with reasonable care and skill            
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B,   
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
Ref: DRN32989374did Mrs B know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs B knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
I say this because  Ive seen copies of some of the paperwork completed at the time of sale. 
On Mrs Bs mortgage application form, shes signed separately to apply  for the PPI 
underneath Yes, I would  like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance.  
Mrs B has also signed to agree to take PPI on a separate  PPI application  form. So I think  
that Mrs B agreed to take PPI understanding that it was optional.  
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mrs B disagrees. Looking at what happened  
when Halifax sold Mrs B the PPI, I think that its more likely  than not that Halifax did provide 
advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that Halifax took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs B. Based on the separate  PPI application form which  Mrs B has 
signed, it seems that some discussion has taken place and been recorded by the adviser.       
I say this because,  N has been typed next to a series of statements about  Mrs Bs personal  
circumstances  including her health  and employment situation.  So it seems  that Halifax 
took some  steps  to try and establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs B.
The adviser also had information about some of Mrs Bs circumstances as part of the 
mortgage application. But I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.      
I say this because  I think  that although some questions were asked, Halifax  didnt do enough 
to try and establish a clear picture  of Mrs Bs personal circumstances and whether she 
needed the PPI. 
So, overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs B given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Bs ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
Ref: DRN32989375working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits, 
sick pay benefits and savings she says she would have been entitled to. I say this 
because:
Although Mrs B may have been  entitled to a generous redundancy benefit,  
this PPI policy would pay out in addition  to any redundancy payout she would 
have received.  
The PPI policy could  have paid out for up to 12 months for an accident or 
sickness claim  which is for longer than Mrs B would have received full sick 
pay.
Although it seems Mrs B had savings, and this is supported  by the paperwork 
from the sale, it looks like Mrs B intended  to use these to cover the difference  
between the amount  she was borrowing and the purchase price of the 
property.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs B. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Bs employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Mrs B hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  she 
had at the time of sale that could  affect  her ability to claim  on the policy. The 
condition that Mrs B has told us about  seems to have occurred sometime  after the 
PPI and mortgage were taken  out. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any paid 
work which your experience, education  or training reasonably qualifies you to do 
condition, and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim), the policy still provided  valuable cover given:
Mrs Bs circumstances,  including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs B be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment). I have reached this conclusion  
because I think its unlikely Mrs B would have taken out the policy  without any sense of what  
it was for. And the PPI section of the mortgage  application form is headed Accident, 
Sickness and Unemployment Insurance. 
Ref: DRN32989376I also think she would have known  how much the PPI was going to cost and what  the 
monthly benefit would  be if she made a successful claim  this was set out on the PPI 
application form. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs B agreed to take out the policy.  
Even if some of that information  was in a leaflet or policy summary Mrs B might have been  
given, I think its more  likely than not she based  her decision on the things she was told, 
rather than on anything  she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B Im not persuaded Halifax      
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs B all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out in DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say      
 I think its unlikely a court  would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
Ref: DRN32989377While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs B, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs B says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs B was given about the cost and monthly 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mrs B knew  about or should  have known about or for which  Mrs B received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date and recurred within  24 months  of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs B be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage; and
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mrs B turned 65 or if she permanently  
retired before then. 
Ref: DRN32989378I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs B was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs B wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs B didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions at the time of sale and was in permanent employment.  So, I still 
think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs B 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs B, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do her job, any 
similar job or any paid work which, in the insurers  view, her experience, education  or 
training qualified her to do, it might have  played  into her thinking  about what she would have 
done. And I accept it may have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may 
not have been overly  concerned given  that if Mrs B was unable (through disability) to carry 
on her own occupation  the chances that she would be able to take up a similar  occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
Mrs B has complained that she reached  60 while the policy was in place - and she wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. The policy would end on the earliest of the date 
Mrs H reached  the age of 65 or the date on which she permanently retired. In 1998 the state 
retirement age was 60, so its possible thats when she was planning  on retiring. But Mrs B 
was 50 when she took out the PPI, so I think its more likely than not shed have thought  
shed still get some value  out of having the PPI, as it would have  covered  her for a 
reasonable period of time before she turned  60. 
Halifax may not have  told Mrs B that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12 month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But       
12 months was a longer period than Mrs B would  have  received full sick pay for and it would 
have paid out in addition  to her redundancy entitlement.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs B would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Bs sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Ref: DRN32989379Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs B was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs B 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out in DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,      
I am satisfied that of the two possibilities,  its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs B thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs B, in the way it 
Ref: DRN329893710did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs B and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3298937