K820x#14complaint
Ms M, represented by Mr H, complains  that the computer  equipment  she acquired through  a 
fixed sum loan agreement with V12 Retail Finance Limited was faulty and that a like for like 
replacement was not provided.
background
Ms M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to buy computer equipment.  The equipment  
was delivered on 27 June 2018. On 10 July, Ms M reported a fault with the equipment to the 
retailer and was asked  to return the item. Ms M says that a like for like replacement should  
be provided at the same  time as she returns  the faulty item.
V12 says that there was no evidence to say that the equipment was faulty. It noted that 
Ms M had been provided with pre-paid postage for the item to be returned and thought this 
was sufficient.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He explained that under  the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015 (CRA 2015) if the faults occur within the first six months it is generally assumed 
that they were  present from the point of supply unless  it can be proved otherwise. He 
explained that this was why the equipment had been asked to be returned. He thought  
requesting the return of the item was reasonable. He also said that as the issue with the 
speakers had not been raised  as part of the complaint against V12, this had not been 
considered in his view.
 
Ms M did not accept  our investigators  view.  Mr H said that the fault was reported  within  30 
days and so Ms M was exercising her right under the 30 day short term right to reject. He 
said that the fault was confirmed through a telephone call with the retailer  on which tests 
were run and the item was deemed faulty as the ports  had failed. He said because  of this 
Ms M was entitled to a number of options  including a like for like exchange.
Mr H also mentioned that the issue with the speakers was raised directly with this service 
because V12 had been dismissive of the complaint  to date and just suggested issued were 
raise with this service.
Mr H said that Ms M had been  caused significant inconvenience  and stress  by not having 
working computer equipment. He explained  that the equipment  is an integral part of the 
computer and it takes time to assemble and then dismantle in order  to deal with the issue. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based  on its individual merits. I take relevant regulations 
into account but my decision  is based  on what I consider fair and reasonable given the 
unique circumstances  of the complaint.
Our investigator set out the legislation relevant  to this complaint.  As Ms M acquired  the 
equipment through a fixed sum loan agreement, V12 is liable if the equipment was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN31642802In this case an issue was reported within 30 days of acquisition. Under CRA 2015 there is a 
short term tight to reject if the item is found to be faulty. Mr H says that the fault was 
confirmed on a call with the retailer and given this a replacement  should have been sent at 
which point the faulty item could be collected. However the retailer  has asked for the faulty 
item to be returned before  a replacement  is sent out and provided pre-paid postage  for this. 
An issue  in this case is whether there is a confirmed fault with the computer equipment. I 
have listened  to a call between Mr H and V12 on which Mr H says the fault was confirmed  
on a separate  call. He said he had a call recording of the relevant conversation  and played  
what he considered  the relevant extract to V12. The call recording being played is not very 
clear but Mr H was told that it was possible a port on the board had failed. I understand that 
this extract was from a longer  call on which Mr H says a number of tests were carried  out.
Based on the telephone call I have heard I do not think that it was a conclusive. I note a 
suggestion was made  about what the fault possibly was. However, I do not find that the 
retailer acted unreasonably  by asking for the equipment to be returned before  a replacement 
was sent out. It provided pre-paid postage and so the return would be at no cost to Ms M. 
Clearly once the equipment is returned and any fault identified Ms M should then be 
provided with a replacement or other  suitable  remedy.
I also note the comments  made about  other  items of the equipment  which Ms M has 
experienced issues with. The retailer should be provided the opportunity  to assess any 
issues Ms M is having with any associated  items  before any decision  is made.  Because  of 
this I havent considered  this issue further.
I appreciate this issue has caused  Ms M inconvenience however had the item been returned  
as soon as the offer was made this could have been  resolved much  sooner.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3164280