K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt tell her a credit card application would  impact  
on her credit  record.
background
Miss M went into a local branch of Lloyds to apply for a credit card to try and improve her 
credit rating. She explained the purpose  of her application to the personal banking  advisor.  
But after the application  was completed it was declined. Shes upset because she says the 
only reason she applied for a credit card was to improve her credit  rating  but shes  now 
ended up with a worse one. If shed been told before the application this might happen she 
wouldnt have gone ahead.
Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said itd followed its procedure for credit card 
applications.
The adjudicator didnt think Lloyds had acted  unfairly. He said Lloyds had to assess the 
credit card application to determine the outcome. Miss M had given her consent to the credit 
checks and so he didnt  think  Lloyds had done  anything wrong to proceed with her 
application.
Miss M said she accepted  the bank had followed its procedures. But she made the purpose 
of the application clear  from the beginning. So the personal banker shouldve made sure she 
fully understood  the implications of the credit search. By not doing so she was negligent  and 
unprofessional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of the interview  when Miss M applied  for her credit card and its 
clear she explained  at the beginning of her application that she wanted  this credit card to 
improve her credit rating. Its also clear  from the recording that the personal banking  advisor  
was following the relevant  scripts  for a credit card application.
And although the script doesnt  mention  Miss Ms particular reason for making  an 
application, it does  have a section about credit checks. This was read to Miss M and then 
she was given it to read before she signed  the form. This section  said:
The Personal  Information you give us will be shared with a number of Credit Reference and 
Fraud Prevention Agencies who will use this to make Credit, Fraud and Identity Checks. The 
Credit Reference Agencies will make a record of the Credit Checks  and Fraud  searches. 
This may be seen by others and may affect  your ability  to borrow  from other lenders within a 
short period.
If false or inaccurate information is provided  and fraud is identified, details will be passed to 
fraud prevention agencies  to help prevent fraud and money laundering.
I agree  to allow Lloyds  to undertake a Credit Check as described  above. 
Ref: DRN30757352I can hear from the recording that Miss M was given time to read this information about  
credit checks. The personal banking advisor said to her to make sure she was happy with it 
before signing  it. And Miss M was accompanied in the interview by someone who was 
helping to explain the process  to her. So Im satisfied that if she didnt understand anything 
in the application she had an opportunity to ask the advisor and the person who was 
accompanying her. So I dont think the personal  banking advisor was negligent or 
unprofessional.
I know Miss M will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think Lloyds has done anything wrong.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3075735