K822xcomplaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC reactivated  voice security on his account  when  
he had previously been told that it had been removed from his account. 
He would like £350 compensation  for the banks error. 
background 
Mr V had previous  discussions with Barclays to remove  voice security from his account as 
he says that it didnt work for him. Barclays agreed to do this. 
Then, in around  October 2018, Mr V called Barclays to find that voice security had been 
reactivated. He didnt  know why and raised a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Following our involvement, Barclays investigated  the matter  and found that Mr Vs voice 
security was opted back in on 23 October  2018 and, thereafter, opted out of the service on 
29 November 2018. 
Barclays couldnt locate  the call recording for October  2018,  so they were unsure on the 
nature of how Mr Vs voice  security  was reactivated again. They  confirmed that his voice 
security has been deactivated and that a note has been left on Mr Vs account so this issue  
does not arise in the future. They offered Mr V:
an apology for the inconvenience caused  again;  and 
£100.00 compensation payment for his trouble.
Our investigator found that this was a fair offer. 
Mr V didnt agree as he thought he should be offered £350. So the complaint has now come  
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr V wont be happy with my decision. I think that the £100 compensation offered 
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  I will explain why. 
I can understand Mr Vs frustration at having to complain again about  voice security being  
activated on his account. This isnt the first time he has had to complain and it must be 
frustrating to have  to do so again.  
But, I can see that Mr V has suffered no financial loss because of the voice security being 
reactivated. 
Although he has been  inconvenienced  again, I think that £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I think that Barclays  has dealt with this matter very quickly  and ensured that 
voice security  has been  deactivated.  Also, by putting  a note on his account, this should  
ensure that it isnt reactivated  again. I cant see what else Barclays  couldve  done.  I feel that 
they have behaved as they shouldve done. 
Ref: DRN38181492my final decision
I think that Barclays Bank UK PLC were wrong to reactivate  Mr Vs voice  security. So, I 
require them to pay Mr V £100 compensation, if they havent done  so already, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3818149