K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Bradford  & Bingley Plc continued to charge them interest after 
their mortgage had been repaid. They ask that it refunds this interest and compensates  them 
for the trouble this has caused. 
background
Mr and Mrs J took out an interest only mortgage  in 1994. They sold their house and repaid 
the mortgage in March  2019. They say they repaid  the mortgage  on 1 March 2019 but B&B 
applied interest  to the end of March and harassed them for their monthly payment. They  also 
complain abut the redemption process   that B&B made errors including  wrongly  refusing to 
deal with their solicitor and not providing a breakdown of the redemption figure.
B&B agreed with some of Mr and Mrs Js complaint about the service provided  and offered 
£200 compensation. It didnt agree that it had applied interest incorrectly or that it made an 
error when  it asked for a monthly payment  in March 2019.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying the mortgage 
terms said that interest would be applied to the end of the month in which  it was repaid. 
The redemption statement said the interest was applied to the end of March  2019.  
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. Mr J said whatever  might  have been said in 1994 it wasnt  fair for 
B&B to apply interest on a loan after it was repaid.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J took out the mortgage in 1994. The mortgage offer refers to the Memorandum 
and Rules  (the mortgage terms and conditions)  and Information for Prospective Borrowers.  
Both documents say interest will be applied to the last day of the month in which repayment 
is made. 
So I think B&B was entitled under  the terms of the mortgage to apply interest  to the end of 
March. And Mr and Mrs J were told this when they agreed to the mortgage.
I understand why Mr and Mrs J find this unfair. So Ive considered whether its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require B&B to refund the interest. In doing so, Ive taken 
into account the following.
B&Bs letter  to Mr and Mrs J dated 20 February 2019 said the redemption statement was 
valid up to 31 March  2019. The redemption statement included interest to 31 March 2019. 
So Mr and Mrs J were aware  that the redemption figure included  interest  to the end of 
March.
Mr and Mrs Js solicitor sent a cheque to redeem the account on 1 March  2019.  The 
covering letter said we understand  the figure  is correct for the month of March. So it seems 
that solicitor knew the redemption  amount  included  interest to the end of March  and this was 
correct if the mortgage  was repaid  during March.
Ref: DRN31098182B&B made errors and didnt provide  a good service. In particular, it wrongly  said Mr and 
Mrs Js solicitor wasnt on its panel.  It sent the redemption statement to Mr and Mrs J instead 
of their solicitor and didnt  provide bank details  to the solicitor. The solicitor paid the 
redemption amount by cheque  instead  of bank transfer  a slower  process.  In some 
circumstances these  errors could have resulted in financial loss. For instance if Mr and Mrs J 
had intended to repay the mortgage  in February but the errors meant it wasnt repaid until 
March (incurring another months  interest). But theres no evidence that was the case  here.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs J feel paying  interest  to the end of March is unfair. But I dont 
think B&B made an error. I think the information it provided about the interest  both when 
Mr and Mrs J took out the mortgage and when it was repaid  was correct. So I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require B&B to refund  the interest. 
While B&B made errors  I dont think its errors resulted in financial loss. But I do think  the 
errors caused trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs J and they should  be compensated for that. 
B&B offered  £200 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to Mr and Mrs J. I think, in 
the circumstances, thats fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  Bradford & Bingley PLCs 
response to Mr and Mrs Js complaint  was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3109818