K821x#15Complaint
Mrs G complains about Wirecard Card  Solutions  Limited actions when reviewing her Pockit 
account and withholding her money. 
The Pockit account  is a pre-paid payment card administered  by Wirecard Card Solutions  
Limited.
Background
In May 2019, Wirecard blocked Mrs Gs Pockit card while they carried  out a review. As part 
of the review, Wirecard asked Mrs G to provide proof of her identification and asked  what 
she used the account for. 
Mrs G responded to Wirecards request and received conflicting subsequent  
correspondence from Wirecard. One individual confirmed her identity had been verified, and 
another asked  further questions.
From May 2019 until August 2019, Mrs G didnt have access  to her money  or her Pockit  
account. In August 2019, Wirecard got in touch with Mrs G and asked for further questions 
relating to a particular payment reference. Mrs G didnt  respond and therefore the account 
remained blocked.
The investigator looked into things and initially didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He said 
Wirecard were complying  with their legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing the 
account and asking for extra information. And as Mrs G didnt respond to all of the 
information asked,  he thought it was reasonable that the account remain  blocked.
Mrs G disagreed and provided  further information  about the sequence of events. Mrs G also 
told our service that she had to borrow a £10,000  loan which would have only been an 
£8,000 loan if she had access to the money in her Pockit  account.  
Since then,  without Mrs G supplying any further information to Wirecard,  Wirecard released 
Mrs Gs account in May 2020  and returned the money to her.
The investigator reconsidered things and found  that if Wirecard were  able to release the 
money to Mrs G in May 2020 despite no further information being  received, they likely  didnt  
need to block  the account or the money in it in the first place. So, he thought Wirecard 
should pay £300 compensation and add 8% simple interest on to Mrs Gs money  which 
Wirecard held on to for a year.
Wirecard didnt agree.  They said if the money  could have been  released sooner it would 
have been.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators view that the complaint should be upheld. Ive explained my reasons below.
Ref: DRN35288082Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
financial businesses to verify a customers identity. The terms and conditions  of Mrs Gs 
account also permit  Wirecard to block an account while  carrying  out a review.
While Wirecard are entitled to carry out a review,  wed expect them to do so in a timely 
manner and without  undue delay. Wirecard initially blocked Mrs Gs account in May 2019.  
Mrs G provided  them  with the information theyd  asked  for  and one email from suggests 
that her identify was verified. However,  Mrs G was then asked  further questions  which  she 
also answered.
Between May 2019 and August 2019 Mrs G didnt have  access  to her account and wasnt  
contacted by Wirecard  for any additional  information. Later in August 2019, Wirecard asked 
Mrs G for details  relating  to a particular reference  for a recent payment. Mrs G didnt  respond  
to this and therefore her account, and the money in it, remained blocked. 
I havent seen  any information or evidence to explain why there was a delay between 
May 2019 and August 2019.  Im also satisfied that from one email  Mrs G received,  she could 
have reasonably thought  her identity had been  verified and no further  information  was 
needed.
When Wirecard  asked an additional question in August 2019, I agree it would have been 
helpful if Mrs G responded. However,  I note that in May 2020 Wirecard released Mrs Gs 
money to her despite no further information being  received. Ive thought very carefully  about  
Wirecards actions here. Ive explained above that Wirecard are strictly regulated and must 
regularly review customers accounts. And Id only expect them to release money once their 
review is satisfied. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs G satisfied their review, as 
she didnt provide the information they asked for. And it therefore follows that I question  if the 
additional information was needed at all.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Wirecard were fair to ask the initial question to Mrs G asking 
her for the purpose of the account and to verify  her identity. Mrs G satisfied them of that in 
May 2019. And while I recognise Wirecard asked an additional question  in August 2019, 
they released the money back to Mrs G in May 2020  without the additional question  being 
answered. So, I consider  they could have released  the money in May 2019 when Mrs G 
answered the initial queries.
I dont doubt being without her money  for a year would have had a significant  impact on 
Mrs G. And therefore, I think Wirecard should  pay 8% simple  interest  on the amount they 
held in Mrs Gs Pockit account  from the date they could have reasonably  released  it 
(17 May 2019) to the date they did release it  7 May 2020.
Mrs G says she had to take out a loan for £10,000   but had she had access to the money in 
her Pockit account,  she would have only needed  to borrow £8,000  which would have had a 
lower interest rate. Ive considered this point, but like the investigator, I havent seen enough 
evidence to satisfy  me that Mrs G would have borrowed less if she had access  to the money 
in her Pockit account. I also cant say for certain that the interest rate would have been  
lower. Because  of the uncertainties around  this, I cant fairly uphold Mrs Gs complaint on 
this point.
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience  this whole situation has caused Mrs G. 
I consider a compensation of £300 to fairly reflect the trouble Mrs G has encountered.
 
Ref: DRN35288083My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Wirecard Card Solutions  Limited  should  do 
the following:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld  from Mrs G. 
They should  calculate  this from 17 May 2019  to 7 May 2020.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Wirecard  Card  Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should  give Mrs G a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mrs G asks for one.
Pay Mrs G £300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2021.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3528808