K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined his travel  insurance claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
background
Mr P damaged his camcorder on holiday and claimed on his home  insurance policy to 
recover the cost of the camcorder. The home insurer paid Mr P the full value of the 
camcorder, £1,233.62,  less the £250 policy  excess  so Mr P received  £983.62.
Mr P then claimed the £250 under his travel  insurance with the aim of over the two claims  
being paid the full amount  for the value  of the camcorder, less the £75 travel policy excess. 
UKI declined  the claim. It said if the claim  limit on the home insurance  policy  had been less 
than the camcorders  value it would have been  able to consider covering the shortfall under 
the travel  insurance  policy. However,  there was no shortfall as the home insurer paid the full 
amount for the camcorder,  less the excess,  so there was no insured peril.
UKI accepted it could  have declined the claim without  the need  for all the evidence it had 
asked Mr P to provide.  It offered £75 compensation for his inconvenience. Mr P complained  
to us.
Our investigator thought UKI had fairly  declined  the claim and the £75 compensation was 
reasonable.
Mr P disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
The travel  policy said if he had other insurance  that covered the same loss UKI would 
not pay more  than its share of the claim. His claim for the £250  shortfall  was UKIs 
share of the claim.
UKI told him it would have met the claim if he first claimed against the travel 
insurance policy. He asked if wed listened to the calls between him and UKI. He 
didn't think he should  be penalised  just because hed claimed against his home  
insurance first.
UKI had treated him unfairly which he said was a basic  principle of the insurance 
industry. He felt particularly strongly about  that as he was part of the industry. He 
said where there was dual insurance  each insurer was obliged  to pay their share of 
the claim based on the amount  of the claim, the respective  sums  insured with 
excesses then being applied.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
Ive seen Mr Ps points as to why he thinks he has dual insurance for the camcorder so UKI 
should settle his travel insurance claim. Even  if I did agree  there was dual insurance  the 
issue is more complex  than Mr P suggests  and I have to decide if UKI fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim  taking all the evidence into account, which includes the policy terms.
UKIs travel insurance policy says if you have other insurance that covers the same loss, 
damage or liability, we will not pay more  than our share of your claim.
Ref: DRN30546482Mr P first claimed  on his home insurance. UKIs  travel insurance share of the claim is for any 
value of the camcorder that the home  insurer didnt pay. The home  insurer paid the full value 
of the camcorder,  the only deduction it made was the £250 policy  excess. I think that means 
UKIs share of the camcorders  valuation is nil.
Mr Ps claim on the travel policy is in effect for the £250 excess  the home insurer  charged for 
the home insurance claim. The travel insurance policy doesn't cover excess payments that 
have to be paid on other  policies,  which is what UKI meant by the claim not being  for an 
insured peril.
There are excess  insurance policies on the market that cover the cost of the excess  if a 
consumer needs  to claim on another type of insurance. Mr Ps travel insurance policy isnt 
that type of policy.
I havent listened to the calls between  Mr P and UKI as I dont need  to do so to make my 
decision. If UKI told Mr P it would have paid the travel claim if he had submitted that first, its 
likely to have been correct. Mr P is covered for valuables  to a £500  limit with a £75 excess 
under the travel policy. So subject to his claim meeting the other  terms of the travel  
insurance policy UKI would have  paid the claim. But thats no reason for UKI to now pay the 
home insurance excess.
Theres no evidence that UKI advised  Mr P to first claim  under his home insurance policy  
then his travel insurance policy.  Even if it had I dont think  Mr P would have received a 
substantially higher amount by first claiming  against  the travel  insurance policy.  If hed first 
claimed against the travel insurance  policy the cover was considerably less than the 
camcorders value. Its more likely than not that Mr P would have then claimed against the 
home insurance policy. He then would have paid two excesses (totalling £325) for the two 
claims.
Mr Ps told us that he made a similar claim to both the same travel insurer  and home insurer 
so that each paid their respective amount of the loss, less their respective excesses,  without 
any issue arising. I havent seen evidence of that claim  or payment settlement. But Ive 
explained above why I think UKI fairly  and reasonably declined this travel insurance claim.
As to service,  UKI didnt need to ask for all the additional evidence from Mr P before it could 
decline the claim. I think the £75 compensation UKI offered is a reasonable amount to 
acknowledge his inconvenience.
responses to my provisional  findings
UKI agreed.  Mr P didnt  agree. In summary, he said
Although my provisional  decision seems logical, it didnt take into account  insurance  
practice for dual insurance which he said meant  both insurers pay the rateable 
proportion of the claim.
Where dual insurance exists an insured shouldnt be disadvantaged. He calculated  
hed received about £50 less overall than he would have  received  if the home insurer 
and travel insurer had settled the claims by paying their respective rateable 
proportions. He provided his calculations  the home insurer would pay £699.94  and 
the travel  insurer £334.16.
Ref: DRN30546483He was more  concerned  about UKI not understanding the correct  insurance  practice  
than the additional £50 he believed  was due to him.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr Ps comments about  how he thinks the principles around dual 
insurance should work in his claim. But as Ive said, even if I did agree there was dual 
insurance the issue is more complex  than Mr P suggests. I also need to take into account 
that an insurer is able to decide  the limit of the risk its prepared to cover (as long as thats 
clear in the policy)  and the circumstances of the case.
UKIs travel insurance policy is clear  that if Mr P has other  insurance  that covers  the same  
loss UKI wont pay more than its share of Mr Ps claim.
Mr P had already  claimed for the full value  of his camcorder against his home  insurance  
policy before  making the travel insurance  policy claim with UKI. The home insurer  paid him 
the full value less the excess, considerably more than Mr P believes it should have paid him 
as set out in his rateable proportion calculation. 
As the home  insurer  paid Mr P the full value of the camcorder (less excess) I still think  UKIs 
share of the camcorders valuation under the travel  insurance policy is nil. The claim Mr P 
made to UKI under his travel insurance  policy was in effect  for the £250 home insurance 
excess as an uninsured loss. The policy doesnt  cover excess  payments from other  policies.
My decision  isnt a precedent for how insurers can settle claims in general. For the reasons 
Ive given in my provisional  findings and these  findings UKI fairly and reasonably declined 
this travel insurance claim.  
Mr P hasnt commented on my provisional  findings about UKIs compensation offer so Im 
satisfied that the £75 compensation UKI offered is a reasonable amount to acknowledge his 
inconvenience.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3054648