K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy as AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  has applied exclusion for inguinal  hernias 
on his private medical insurance policy and declined his claim.
background
Mr W had a private medical insurance policy with AXA which  started in November 2017. He 
contacted AXA in January  2018 and said hed had symptoms of an inguinal hernia for 
around three  weeks. He had similar symptoms more  than five years  ago and said he knew 
what that felt like. AXA said it would need his doctor  to complete a form which Mr W said 
wasnt available until around  two weeks after his initial consultation.
AXA said the doctor indicated hed been having  the symptoms for around 10 months prior to 
the consultation, from around  April 2017. AXA added that had Mr W declared the symptoms 
or his previous condition, it would have applied exclusion for all treatments related to inguinal  
hernias back when he took the policy out. And so it did this retrospectively and declined Mr 
Ws claim.
Our investigator looked at the matter  and said AXA applied  the exclusion,  and declined  the 
claim fairly. She said this was because the information showed that Mr Ws symptoms 
started before the policy was taken out. 
Mr W didnt agree and said that the doctor  was mistaken when they told AXA that Mr W had 
suffered from the symptoms since April 2017. Mr W also said as he had suffered from the 
previous inguinal hernia more than five years ago, his condition should  not be deemed pre-
existing. 
As the investigators  opinion remained the same, so the case  has been passed  to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mr Ws complaint  largely for the same reasons as explained  by the investigator.  Ill explain 
my reasons  in more  detail below.
The industry guidelines under Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) state 
that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly  and fairly. And that it shouldnt  reject 
a claim unreasonably. So Ive kept this in mind  when deciding  the outcome.
The exclusion AXA has applied essentially meant  that it considered  Mr Ws inguinal hernia a 
pre-existing condition. Mr Ws policy is designed to cover new medical conditions that begin 
after the start date.
AXAs policy  terms define pre-existing medical conditions  as:
illness or injury that:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment fororexperienced symptoms of in 
the five years before the start of cover
Ref: DRN39152122Mr W said his previous  inguinal  hernia  was more than five years ago and I can understand 
why he didnt feel the need  to declare  this when he took the policy out. The questions AXA 
asked during the sales process didnt say he would have  to declare anything which 
happened more  than five years before the start date. And those symptoms would not be 
classed as pre-existing given the above definition. But this wasnt  why AXA applied the 
exclusion and declined  the claim.
What I have to decide here is whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the 
doctors response in the medical information form. The policys terms allow AXA to request 
this information.  I acknowledge Mr Ws comments that the doctor  didnt receive this until two 
weeks after the initial consultation, but I dont  think AXA had caused any unnecessary delays 
here. And the answers  suggest Mr W suffered from symptoms of the inguinal  hernia within 
five years of taking the policy  out. And so I think AXA did the right thing by adding the 
exclusion and then applying it to his claim.
Mr W told our investigator that he worked  as a master at sea between  April 2017 and 
January 2018.  And he said he couldnt have  worked  such a demanding job if he suffered 
symptoms of inguinal hernia around  that time.  Although Mr W said he wanted  to provide his 
seamans book, I dont  agree that this would make a difference  here. This is because Mr Ws 
comments werent medically supported. The only medical information  AXA was provided 
with was the doctors responses in the medical  information  form. And so Im more  persuaded 
by it. I note Mr Ws comments about his doctor  making a mistake,  but Ive not seen any 
evidence from his doctor confirming this.
As the policy isnt designed to cover pre-existing conditions or the related symptoms, Ive 
found AXAs  decision is in line with the policys terms, and the guidelines set out in ICOBS.
Ref: DRN39152123my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and so Im recommending that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
take no further action here.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3915212