K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined  her mobile phone 
insurance claim and about  the time it took to assess her claim. My references to Assurant 
include its agents.
background
Miss M claimed  on her mobile phone insurance  for a stolen mobile phone.  Assurant is the 
insurer.
Assurant declined the claim on the basis of the following policy  term:
It is important that when applying for insurance,  or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions  honestly and 
to the best of your knowledge.  Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy  or 
the payment of your claim.
Miss M had reported the theft as occurring on 27 October 2018. Assurant had evidence  from 
the phone  manufacturer that the Find My iPhone  application was removed  from the phone  a 
few weeks after the reported theft, allowing potential further  use of the mobile phone.  It said 
the application could only be removed by someone with access  to Miss Ms security 
information. It was also concerned  that the proof  of usage information from the phone 
network provider showed  the phone had been used after the theft, which shouldnt have 
been possible given  the level of security  on the phone Miss M said was in place.
Miss M later provided a report from the phone  manufacturer  saying it appears that the 
customer was the victim  of a phishing scam  to acquire their  ID password. As the thief had 
access to the SIM, they would have also been able to bypass 2 step verification. Miss M 
also provided a revised proof of usage from the phone network provider showing the last 
usage around the time of the theft of the phone. Assurant still declined the claim.
Miss M complained to us. She wants Assurant to accept her claim for a new phone and 
shes unhappy about the time it took to assess her claim.
Our investigator said Assurant hadnt unreasonably delayed  the claim assessment. But she 
thought Assurant had unreasonably  declined the claim  as there wasnt enough evidence to 
support that only Miss M or someone  she provided the phones security  information to could 
have removed the phone from Miss Ms iCloud account. Miss M had sent us emails  that 
shed got in December 2018 and February 2019 from email addresses  she said were posing 
to be the phone manufacturer. She said shed deleted earlier emails but our investigator said 
the later emails showed Miss M was the target of a phishing scam. Our investigator thought  
Assurant should  reassess  the claim and pay Miss M £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Assurant didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said the course of events  
that would  have allowed someone without  Miss Ms authority  to access her iCloud and 
remove the phone from her account were very unlikely to happen.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to not uphold  the complaint.  I said:
Ref: DRN37274892delays and accessories cover
Miss M submitted the claim form on 31 October 2018 and Assurant declined  the claim 
around 20 November  2018. During  that time it requested various documents  from Miss M 
and spoke to her about her claim. Assurant had concerns about the claim and it made 
investigations, which I think were  reasonable. I don't think  Assurant unnecessarily  delayed  
the claim assessment.
Assurant accepts it incorrectly  told Miss M that her phone accessories claim had been 
accepted, even though  this couldnt be done  unless the phone  claim had been  accepted  
first. That was confusing  for Miss M, but Assurant did clarify the correct position  when she 
spoke to it shortly after the incorrect email  was sent to her.
claim
I think the updated usage report from the phone network provider should satisfy Assurant 
that the Miss M didnt make a call after the reported  theft. Shes also sent us proof of 
blacklisting from the phone network provider showing the blacklisting date as 27 October 
2018, which ties in with the date of the theft.
But Assurant  also took into account  that someone  had access to Miss Ms iCloud and 
removed the phone  from her iCloud account  several weeks  after she says the phone was 
stolen. Assurant says given the security  Miss M said was on the phone the details used to 
remove the feature  would only be known  to Miss M, or someone  she had trusted with the 
information.
The phone manufacturers report says it appears  Miss M was the victim of a phishing scam 
to acquire her password  and as the thief had access to the SIM they would have also been 
able to bypass  the two step verification process.
Assurant says there's  no evidence Miss M was the victim of a phishing  scam; she says she 
deleted the earlier emails from people posing  as the phone manufacturer  and shes not said 
she entered the relevant  security information  in response to those emails.
In summary,  Assurant says for Miss M's claim to be valid one of the following two scenarios 
would have happened:
1. Miss Ms phone was pickpocketed by someone that had the technical ability  to 
create malicious emails  and send them to her (although  it was unclear how her email 
address was obtained). Miss M was persuaded to enter her login details, even 
though the phone had been stolen, in order for these to be captured  by the thief 
allowing them  to access her iCloud  and remove the device from her account. Miss M 
had deleted the relevant emails.
Or
2. The thief realised that Miss Ms phone network provider allegedly  reactivated her 
SIM card temporarily by mistake. As the phone was reported as stolen the 
reactivation would be very unusual  and not something the thief would  anticipate. The 
SIM didnt connect  when the police  attempted to call the phone, suggesting it wasnt 
active. The thief then hacked the device within the period of time that the SIM was 
Ref: DRN37274893reactivated. That would have required the thief to have  specialised advanced 
technical ability to bypass the phones  activation  lock.
Assurant says on the balance of probabilities, neither scenario is likely.
Im persuaded by Assurants evidence. I dont think either of the above scenarios are 
probable. I think Assurant can reasonably believe that details used to remove  the feature 
would only be known  to Miss M, or someone she had trusted  with the information.  As the 
phone was removed  from her account  several weeks after she says the phone was stolen its 
reasonable for Assurant to believe that its more likely than not Miss M didnt gave an 
accurate account  of the theft.
On the evidence I have Assurant fairly and reasonably relied on the above policy term to 
decline the claim.
responses to my provisional  findings
Miss M said she was disappointed and upset by my provisional decision. She provided new 
evidence: 
emails from her phone  manufacturer about logging into iCloud after the phone theft, 
the activation lock being requested  on the stolen device  and Find my iPhone  being 
disabled on the stolen phone
emails allegedly  from the phone manufacturer that she received after her phone was 
stolen. She said she hadnt opened  any of the attachments to the emails or replied to 
them but the emails showed there  were  attempts to get her login details 
a list of previous  emails received  from her phone manufacturer
emails from her mobile phone network  provider to show it did reactivate the SIM card 
for several hours  after she reported her phone stolen.  She said the thief would have 
been able to gain access to the phone and find her email  address and other personal 
information. 
We asked Miss M to confirm whether  or not she logged into iCloud after the theft of her 
phone to disable the Find my iPhone feature and if so why. She replied that she would only 
have taken actions  as advised  by the phone manufacturer  and she believed the thief 
disabled the function when they stole the phone.
We sent the new evidence to Assurant  for its comments. It said some of the emails  Miss M 
now provided did look suspicious. However she had said she hadnt opened or responded to 
any of those emails. So the question remained of how someone gained access to the 
personal information in her phone to disable Find my iPhone and gain access  to her iCloud 
to remove the phone from her account.
Assurant accepted the mobile phone network provider admitted to reactivating  the SIM card 
in error  for several hours. However Assurant still thought  it unlikely that the thief would have 
realised the networks  error and relied on the error to hack the phone. And it said the phone 
had Find My iPhone active at the time it was allegedly stolen so the phones activation  lock 
was active, which is a security feature to prevent unauthorised use of the phone.
Ref: DRN37274894Assurant also provided screenshots from the phone  manufacturers system  which  it said 
showed the phone was taken into the phone manufacturers store  three times for diagnostic  
checks after Miss M reported the phone as stolen. Assurant said that for the phone  
manufacturer to gain access to the device  to do these tests the ID and passcode would be 
needed. It said Miss M told it previously that she had spoken  to the phone manufacturer who 
told her someone had pretended to be her. Assurant  queried how the phone manufacturer  
would know the person  wasnt Miss M. And it noted  that the diagnostic report  showed a 
'presence test' was carried out on 'face ID', one of the security  features of the phone, and the 
test passed.  Assurant said it had fairly declined the claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss M but the new evidence shes provided hasnt changed  my 
mind. I dont  uphold her complaint. 
Even with her new evidence I think the issue remains  of how someone  other  than Miss M, or 
someone she had trusted with the information,  accessed all her personal  security 
information to be able to disable Find my iPhone and gain access to her iCloud to remove  
the phone  from her account.  Theres also the issue of how someone was able to pass  
Miss Ms facial  recognition security  after the phone had been reported stolen. 
Miss M told us that she didnt respond to the emails that were allegedly from the phone 
manufacturer. So its not clear to me how anyone who stole  her phone could have accessed 
all the information  required to bypass all the security  features. 
The phone network provider did temporarily reactivate the phone after it was stolen. But 
Assurant says that still means  the thief would have to realise the unlikely event occurred  and 
still wouldnt  explain how a thief would get access to the information needed to do the 
actions that were taken  after the phone was reported stolen.
Looking at the evidence overall  for the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings  and 
these findings  I think Assurant can reasonably believe  its more likely than not Miss M didnt 
gave an accurate account of the theft.  It fairly and reasonably declined  the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3727489