K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint is about the mortgage and associated home insurance they had 
with Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS). They are unhappy  that when they took the mortgage the 
interest rate was fixed, but later kept changing without warning. 
In relation to the home insurance, Mr A and Mrs B are unhappy that the premium kept 
changing. In addition, they now know that the premium for the policy was added to their 
mortgage balance  and paid off over 12 months   during which  time they paid interest on the 
outstanding balance. They say this was never  explained to them how this would  work  and 
that they would pay more  to do so.
background
In December 2004 Mr A and Mrs B took out a mortgage with BoS. Attached to the mortgage 
was a two-year fixed interest rate product of 5.39%, ending on 31 December 2006. The offer 
set out that buildings  insurance had to be taken out to protect the property, but it didnt have 
to be taken out through BoS.
However, a home insurance policy was taken out through BoS. This policy  covered  Mr A and 
Mrs Bs buildings and contents and was provided by an insurer in the BoS group. The premium 
for the policy was paid to the insurer by BoS and added to the mortgage balance.  BoS then 
reclaimed 1/12th of the premium each month along  with the mortgage payment. As the premium 
was added to the mortgage balance, it attracted interest during the repayment period.
In the spring of 2007 Mr A and Mrs B arranged a new fixed interest  rate for the mortgage  
this time over three  years  at 5.95%. It was done without any advice on the part of BoS. 
Again the offer document said that whilst they had to have buildings insurance for their 
home, they didnt have  to take it out through BoS.
In 2012 Mrs B was removed from the mortgage.  BoS sent Mr A the paperwork to accept the 
mortgage into his sole name. Again this included  the reminder that buildings  insurance had 
to be arranged, but that it didnt have to be arranged through  BoS.
At the 2012 insurance policy renewal Mr A and Mrs B were  sent documents detailing the 
new premium  for the policy and under  the section titled Payment details it explained if the 
policyholder paid the insurance as part of their mortgage account,  the direct  debit collecting 
the mortgage payment would be automatically  updated  to reflect  the cost of the insurance 
policy. It went on to say, Please note if you do not pay the premium  in full at renewal, we will 
charge interest  on it. The 2013 renewal said the same  thing.
Mr A and Mrs B renewed the home insurance  policy between 2004  and 2012.  At the 2013 
renewal they changed  their provider.
The mortgage account was closed in December 2017. In 2018  Mr A and Mrs B complained 
to BoS about their mortgage and insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN33568992BoS said that it didnt have  a record of the conversations Mr A and Mrs B had at the time the 
mortgage was taken out or when the insurance  policy was cancelled.  However,  the 
documentation from the time of the sale of the mortgage made it clear that, whilst they had 
to have buildings insurance in place,  they didnt have to take it out through  BoS. This was 
repeated in the documents issued to Mr A and Mrs B in 2007  and 2012  when they changed 
their interest rate product  and transferred the mortgage to Mr As sole name. BoS was 
satisfied that they would have known they didnt  have  to take their insurance through  it and 
could have gone elsewhere  if they wanted  to. 
It went on to explain that the mortgage conditions, which would have been issued to Mr A 
and Mrs B following  their mortgage  completing,  detailed how it would deal with insurance 
premiums if it was arranging any policies. However,  Mr A and Mrs B would have had the 
option each year at renewal to pay the entire premium had they wanted to. It pointed out that 
each year the insurance premium would have been  detailed on the annual  mortgage 
statement. It also noted that Mr A and Mrs B were told on the annual  insurance renewal 
documents that interest would  be charged  on any unpaid premiums.
BoS confirmed  when looking at the matter of the insurance premiums,  it had collected the 
wrong amount  between  December 2006  and November 2007. It said it would calculate the 
effect of this on Mr A and Mrs Bs mortgage,  which it later confirmed  was £26.58.  It refunded 
that amount  plus interest to them. In addition,  it sent them £100 for any inconvenience this 
may have  caused.  
In relation to the changing interest rates, BoS explained that Mr A and Mrs Bs interest rates 
had changed over time because they had two different fixed  rate products in the earlier  
years of their mortgage  2004 and 2007. After the last of those fixed interest rates expired, 
the mortgage moved on to standard variable rate (SVR),  which did change  from time to time.  
BoS didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A and Mrs B werent happy with BoS response and 
referred their complaint  to this service.  One of our investigators considered  most  of the 
complaint  not the increasing premiums as that is not something  BoS as lender is 
responsible for  but he didnt recommend it be upheld.
Mr A and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions.  As agreement couldnt  be 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mrs Bs concerns about the cost of their property  insurance policy  is being  dealt  with 
separately under a different  complaint  reference number.  Also, their earlier  concerns about  
the sale of protection benefits  alongside the mortgage has already been considered by one of 
my ombudsman colleagues. As such, I wont comment on these matters  in this decision.
Ref: DRN33568993Mr A and Mrs B have said they believe they were taken advantage of and didnt understand 
how their mortgage worked because  English  was not their first language and their 
understanding of English was limited  at the time of the sale.  I cant  comment on what  they 
would or wouldnt  have understood in 2004,  but the evidence  would  indicate  that they had a 
reasonable understanding of their mortgage  and the interest rates  applicable to it. I say this 
as shortly after their first interest rate product expired, they were able to apply, without 
assistance, for a new interest rate product. 
I am also satisfied that the information  they were given in both 2004 and 2007 when the 
interest rate products  were granted explained what would happen at the end of those 
products  the mortgage would revert  to SVR. That is what happened  at the end of both 
products. Whilst in 2007 Mr A and Mrs B subsequently fixed their interest rate again,  they 
chose not to do so when  that replacement rate expired. 
In relation to the changing interest rates over the remaining term of the mortgage, we 
wouldnt expect a lender to remind  a consumer that an interest  rate product was coming to 
an end. All that is required is, if there is a change in the monthly payment, that the consumer 
is notified of that change. Given Mr A and Mrs B clearly knew early in the term of their 
mortgage that interest rate products  had specific terms  associated with them, I think  they 
would have known  they had gone  onto their lenders  SVR. Indeed, this fact was documented 
at the time the interest rate products were  attached  to the mortgage  and on the annual 
statements sent to Mr A and Mrs B from 2010. 
For completeness, I would also comment on Mr A and Mrs B concern they were  not given 
notice of interest rate changes. Unfortunately, significant notice of a change in SVR is often 
not possible and thats how variable rate mortgages  work. There  are various  things that 
influence the rate a lender  sets its SVR at and they are often not in the control of the lender, 
for example Bank of England base rate changes. So when  the rates rise, a lender wont  
necessarily be able to provide  any significant  notice to its accountholders. 
Mr A and Mrs B have said they were told they had to have the insurance policy they took 
through BoS. As I have  said above, I cant know what was said at the time of the sale of the 
mortgage and insurance policy. Mr A and Mrs B would definitely  have  been  told they had to 
have a buildings insurance policy but given all the documentation makes  it clear that they 
didnt have to take it out through BoS, I find it unlikely that they were told orally  told 
something different  to that. As Mr A has said, their grasp of the English  language was not 
great and it may have  been a simple  misunderstanding. 
In relation to the payment of the insurance premiums, again  I cant  know  what  Mr A and 
Mrs B were  told about this in 2004. It is documented in the mortgage terms and conditions  
that interest  would be charged if the whole  premium wasnt paid at the beginning of the year.  
However, Mr A and Mrs B wouldnt  have had access to that document when they decided to 
pay for the policy in this way. 
BoS has said the information about interest  being charged on the policy premiums was 
included in all the policy renewals. I have  only seen some of the later documentation  from 
policy renewal, but those  documents  do clearly set out the situation  when the premium  is to 
be paid monthly through the mortgage  lender. They also gave Mr A and Mrs B the option to 
pay the premium as a single payment  and avoid the interest. This option was not taken up.
Ref: DRN33568994As an aside,  it seems unlikely to me that the information about interest being charged  
wouldnt have been given to Mr A and Mrs B. I say this as in 2004,  as it is now, it was normal 
for interest  to be charged on insurance  premiums if they were paid by instalment rather than 
annually at the beginning of a year  that was the case throughout the insurance industry. 
So if Mr A and Mrs B wanted  to pay their policy monthly, as many consumers do, then they 
would have been paying interest to someone, be it their lender or the insurer.
As I have said above, I cant  be sure what Mr A and Mrs B understood of the information  
they were provided  with, given their comments about them  having a limited understanding  of 
English at the time of the sale. However,  it is clear they had some understanding  of their 
mortgage arrangements and how they worked  based on their actions in 2007. I have seen 
nothing that leads me to believe BoS took advantage of Mr A and Mrs B at the time of the 
sale of their mortgage and insurance  policy.
BoS has made an offer to Mr A and Mrs B in relation  to a mistake it made in 2006  when it 
calculated how much it needed to collect for the insurance premium. Having looked  at the 
circumstances, it appears  the offer is appropriate in the circumstances as it compensates 
them for the financial loss they suffered and any inconvenience the mistake may have 
caused them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356899