K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that The Royal London  Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  treated her 
unfairly when refusing  to allow her to transfer some pension savings from another pension  
scheme.
background
Mrs W holds pension savings with another provider.  Those savings are in the form of defined 
benefits. In 2017 she took independent financial advice that recommended  she transfer  
those benefits  to a pension  plan with Royal London. There  were  some delays in making that 
transfer, and so the guaranteed transfer value  had expired. As a result  the amount 
transferred was less than Mrs W was expecting. So she asked that the transfer was 
cancelled and the pension savings were  returned to her former pension scheme.
In early 2019 Mrs W once again  asked Royal  London to accept the transfer  of her pension 
savings held with the other provider. She asked that Royal  London accept that transfer  on 
the basis of the advice  that was provided  to her in 2017. She said that her circumstances 
were unchanged  from that time. Royal London declined her request, as the advice shed 
received was more  than 12 months old.
Mrs Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our investigators. She concluded that it was 
reasonable for Royal London to decide the basis on which  it was willing  to accept pension 
transfers, and particularly how it interprets the rules placed on such transfers by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority ("FCA"). So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
The FCA has placed a number of regulations around the transfer  of defined benefit pension  
savings. These types of pension plans have valuable guarantees and the FCA is quite rightly 
concerned that consumers should  be provided with advice  to ensure that any transfer of 
pension benefits  is appropriate. Mrs W has indicated that she is aware of these regulations  
and that was the reason  she sought  advice from the financial advisor in 2017.
I havent seen  the advice  Mrs W was given in 2017. But it seems  likely that advice 
suggested that it would be suitable for her to transfer her pension  savings  to Royal  London. 
Royal London accepted that transfer  and the funds were moved across to the business.  But 
Mrs W says the transfer was delayed and as a result the amount transferred was less than 
she was expecting. So the transfer  was cancelled and the funds returned to Mrs Ws original 
pension provider.
I think I need to be clear that in this complaint I am not considering what happened in 2017. 
Mrs W has said that those delays do not form part of this complaint. And Ive certainly not 
seen anything in relation  to those delays that would allow me to determine why they 
Ref: DRN37214072occurred. So I dont  think it would  be reasonable for me to assume that Royal London owes 
any additional responsibility to Mrs W, in excess of any other customer,  to treat her latest  
transfer application more favourably.
It is entirely right that Royal London is able to set the terms on which  it is willing to offer its 
products. Royal  London  has set out that it requires consumers  to be provided  with advice 
before it will accept any pension transfers.  And although that requirement is slightly more  
onerous than the regulations imposed by the FCA I dont  think  it is entirely unusual or 
unreasonable.
Royal London has further strengthened its requirements by saying that any advice a 
consumer is relying upon  in order to have a transfer approved must be less than 12 months 
old. As before,  it is entirely up to Royal London  to make such  a decision. And once again 
I dont think that requirement  is unreasonable. There are many things that could change over 
that sort of time period such as a consumers  circumstances, the economic environment,  or 
the investments  available that might render  older advice to be less applicable.
I can understand why Mrs W is keen for Royal London to accept her transfer without her 
taking further  advice. She has explained  that she has a good understanding  of the pensions  
market. And it is quite expensive to be provided  with advice of this nature   Mrs W says that 
she paid her previous  advisor £5,000. So given she thinks  her circumstances remain  the 
same as before it isnt unreasonable  for her to consider that the advice she previously 
received remains valid.
But that isnt the matter  for me to decide  here.  Even if I thought it was appropriate for Mrs W 
to transfer her pension  benefits (which for the avoidance of doubt I havent formed  an 
opinion on not least because I havent seen  the original advice) it would be for Royal  London 
to decide whether, or on what terms, it wished to accept that transfer.  Royal London has 
clearly told Mrs W that it requires her to provide advice of the suitability of the transfer that 
has been given  within the past 12 months. Mrs W has not provided  that to Royal  London so 
I think Royal London is entirely within its rights to refuse to accept the transfer.
I dont think Royal Londons  refusal  to accept  the transfer is unreasonable.  And so I dont 
think the complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3721407