K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc wont  refund payments she says she 
didnt make with her bank  cards.
background
Mrs H disputes total payments of £335.14 made using two bank cards linked to different 
bank accounts  at NatWest. The payments on the first card and account started on 13 
October 2017 and ended on 13 December  2017.  And those on the second  started  on 30 
November 2017  and ended on 29 December 2017.  Most of the payments were made using 
contactless technology but one disputed payment on each card was made when the chip 
was read and the correct PIN entered. Genuine transactions were made with the cards by 
Mrs H sometimes  within minutes of a disputed one. Mrs H says that the cards werent out of 
her possession during  this time and thought that they had been  cloned. There  was a time 
when she had allowed  a friend to use her card to take out money  from a cash machine for 
her but that was the limit of that use. She wanted  her money refunded  and £1,000 
compensation for the time it took for NatWest to look into this.
NatWest said it wouldnt  be refunding the money.  It said that the genuine cards  were used 
and there  was no explanation for how someone  else could have used them  without Mrs Hs 
authority. She had made  a payment  to one of the retailers  involved previously and the 
pattern of total payments  didnt match that of a fraudster. NatWest paid Mrs H £75 in 
compensation for not addressing her fraud claim when she first raised  it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the payments be refunded. She produced  a detailed 
table showing the time of all the payments with the cards during the period.  She noted for 
example that on 13 October 2017 there was a disputed  contactless payment using one card 
at 17:11, a genuine payment with it at 17:43 and a disputed one again  at 18:15. She didnt 
think someone would have been able to take and then replace the card which  Mrs H kept in 
her handbag without her knowing. Once  NatWest had paid the compensation it had asked 
Mrs H to contact  the fraud team. And she had indicated she would be going  into a branch.  
So no more compensation was fairly due for the time since taken to look into this.
Mrs H didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman  to review her complaint. She said she no 
longer wanted  £1,000 in compensation   just her money back. She believed that details from 
a contactless  card could  be obtained by someone  a short distance away from it. And that the 
places where she disputed making payments  werent ones she would have visited.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card chip and PIN. And the payments 
werent authorised  Mrs H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
Ref: DRN36650352So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the cards used for these 
payments?
-Did Mrs H authorise the payments  on the account?  
I will first deal with the authentication of the payments. Ive seen evidence from NatWest 
showing that the disputed payments involved the chip on the card being read. And for two of 
the payments  the PIN was also entered. So Im satisfied that these were authenticated.
We havent seen  evidence of the chip on a card being cloned for general use. The chip itself 
is needed to make contactless  payments  and couldnt be copied  even by someone nearby 
Mrs H. So Im satisfied  that the genuine cards were used to make these payments.
As our investigator has shown the PIN was needed for two of the payments  one with each  
card. There  is no explanation  of how someone could have obtained  and used the card and 
PIN without  Mrs H knowing. Shes explained  that a friend had used it to withdraw cash but 
she is certain wouldnt have made  the other  payments.
The pattern  of payments set out above  on 13 October 2017 would have made it extremely 
unlikely that a third party  could have  used the card around genuine use without Mrs H 
knowing. I also agree that a fraudster in possession of the cards and PIN would likely have 
taken as much money from the accounts  as quickly as possible. The disputed  payments 
instead seem consistent with typical  household  spending.
I need to decide whether its reasonable for NatWest to hold Mrs H responsible for these 
payments. Having looked at all the evidence about them Im afraid  that I think  it is because  
the most  likely explanation to me is that these payments  were  authorised.  I know Mrs H will 
be very disappointed by my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3665035