K821x#15complaint
Ms T says that following  a successful claim on her home insurance policy  for storm damage,  
Zurich Insurance  plc is responsible for poor workmanship on her roof. She says this has 
resulted in leaks and damp in her bedroom.
background
Ms T originally made a claim for storm damage to the roof of her property in 2008. In 2014 
Zurich accepted there were problems with aspects  of the repairs  and it carried out further 
works.
Last year Ms T made a claim  on her home  insurance  when she discovered damp in one of 
her bedrooms. Her new insurer rejected the claim,  in part because it said the rear dormer 
roof had been poorly constructed.
Ms T approached her former insurer  and asked it to put things right.  But Zurich 
commissioned a report which indicated there was nothing wrong with the work that had been 
done to her dormer  roof. It also said that the onus  was on Ms T to show she had a valid 
claim and she hadnt  done that.
Our investigator upheld  Ms Ts complaint. Zurich disagreed and so her case was passed to 
me to review. I issued  my provisional decision last April.  This was along the following lines.
my first provisional  decision 
Over the past decade there  have  been extensive works to the roof of Ms Ts property - the 
main roof as well as the front and rear dormer  roofs. Some of these works were necessary  
following storm damage in 2008, but also later because of accidental  damage and poor 
workmanship by Zurichs agents in relation  to the original repairs.
When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair, we expect  it to indemnify the consumer  
by carrying out an effective and lasting repair. This isnt something that is always written  into 
a policy  but we think its a fair and reasonable approach to repairs.
To be effective the repair must fully put right the damage. And to be lasting it must do so for 
an appropriate amount of time. Whats appropriate will depend on whats  being repaired. But 
in this case, wed expect repairs to Ms Ts roof, which  are important to the integrity  of the 
property, to last many  years.
Weve been given dozens of photographs of Ms Ts rear dormer roof. And we have two 
conflicting opinions  about what these show. In rejecting her new claim Ms Ts current insurer  
said:
It was clear from the photographs taken that the roof has not been correctly constructed,  
with two areas in particular that appear  unfinished,  directly above where water has entered  
the bedroom. In my opinion the lack of protection in those areas  especially,  has allowed 
water to penetrate  through  the roof.
On the other hand a report commissioned by Zurich  said:
Ref: DRN35296492on viewing the drone footage you provided  and stills photos  I would  advise that the flat 
roofs to either side rear of Ms Ts property appear  in the same complete and correctly 
detailed format as when I inspected via the scaffold back in May 2015.
Zurich said that its report  should carry more weight.  It said the person who carried out its 
survey was more qualified than the person who considered the matter from Ms Ts new 
insurer. That mayve been the case, but I thought the observations made by the investigator 
were also important:
-The firm Zurich used for the survey  were previously involved in the works at Ms Ts 
home. So its impartiality in terms of inspecting workmanship for which they were  in 
part responsible  could be open to question.
-Unlike the representative from Ms Ts new insurer  who attended her property and 
reviewed the damp in her bedroom,  the person who provided  Zurichs report  didnt  
attend the site. He relied on drone footage of the roof and the findings he made  in 
2015.
-The work commissioned by Zurich appears rather narrow  in its remit.
Overall I didnt find either the opinion provided by Ms Ts new insurer  or by Zurich  to be 
telling in terms of diagnosing  what caused  the damp  patches in her bedroom, and therefore 
which party  is liable for putting things right. There are three  main  possibilities.
-The damp mayve been caused by problems with Ms Ts main  or dormer roof and the 
workmanship related  to previous claims for which  Zurich  would be responsible. It has 
already acknowledged that if this were shown  to be the case it would reconsider its 
position.
-The damp mayve been caused by an insured event, such as water ingress following 
any recent storm. In this case Ms Ts new insurer would need to consider her claim.
-Alternatively the damp mayve been  caused  by something unrelated to previous 
works and for which Ms T doesnt  have cover, in which case she wouldnt have 
recourse to either insurer.
Ms T has consistently raised concerns about  the quality of the workmanship on her roof over 
a period of several years. And when  shes told us about things that have happened in 
relation to those  works this is often corroborated by Zurichs own records.
I agreed with Zurich that when a consumer makes  a claim the onus is on them  to show, on 
the balance of probabilities, that an insured event caused the damage. But in this case  Ms T 
is arguing that the problem results from the workmanship  of its agents.
Given the history of works on Ms Ts roof, her testimony and the observations of her current 
insurer I thought  it was most likely,  but not certain, the cause of the problems Ms T was 
experiencing related to previous works done on her property by Zurich.
But there are various possibilities, and I didnt think it would be fair to expect  Zurich  to 
arrange for Ms Ts rear dormer roof to be reconstructed based on the evidence  available. 
Not least because if I were to do so its possible that wouldnt solve the problem as we didnt  
know for sure what the root cause  was.
Ref: DRN35296493I also thought  the award of £500 made  by the investigator for trouble and upset wasnt  quite 
right. While I can see very clearly  the impact of various problems Ms T has had with her 
property and the workmanship of contractors following successful claims on her home  
insurance, I thought  the award  partly  pre-judged  the outcome of any independent survey.
So, I provisionally partially upheld Ms Ts complaint. And subject to further  evidence  and 
arguments I said Id require Zurich Insurance plc to:
-Provide Ms T with a list of three  appropriately qualified  independent  surveyors  so she 
could pick one - or choose one of her own - to provide a full diagnostic report into the 
damp in her bedroom and the integrity of her rear dormer roof. The report  was also to 
determine what was required to provide an effective and permanent resolution.  Both 
parties would  be bound by the experts  conclusions.
-Pay for this independent survey.
-Pay £100 for the trouble and upset Ms T has experienced  as a result  of delays in 
resolving this matter. And an additional  £400 if the survey concludes that the damp 
problem reported  is related to the workmanship of Zurichs agents.
my subsequent findings
my findings
I decided to issue another provisional decision on Ms Ts case. This was because  it had 
been nearly nine months since I provided  my initial thoughts. And more importantly, both 
parties agreed it would  be better for a final decision to follow the outcome of an independent  
survey.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im partially  upholding Ms Ts complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
The main  developments  since  my first provisional decision are:
-Both parties agreed  an independent survey  should be completed and Zurich would 
pay for this. Ultimately Ms Ts preferred contractor was commissioned to do the work 
and provide a report. This was delivered in November 2018.
-In summary, the surveyor reported the following:
The junction between the pitched roof and the flat roof has not been  constructed in 
accordance with current day recommendations of the manufacturers of both the 
membrane and flat roofing felt. There are signs of poor workmanship as the felt in at 
least two places is loose  and poorly  adhered to the underlying felt roofing. The 
temporary repair has now failed and is of no benefit
As a minimum  we suggest that the flashing  details to the perimeter  of the flat roof 
are remade ensuring there is a smooth transition  where the membrane dresses over 
the flat felted roof.
Ref: DRN35296494Its important to remember that both parties agreed  to an independent survey of the rear 
dormer roof because I thought the evidence previously provided by both sides  was 
insufficient to fairly determine the cause  of the damp patches in Ms Ts bedroom. The 
surveyor has found the leaks are the result of issues with the flashing and underfelt  at the 
perimeter of the flat roof.
Zurich accepts the surveyors report.  Its agreed  to make arrangements for the repairs  
identified to be done. If this reveals  further  works are required these will be done. It also 
accepts its responsible for putting right any internal damage directly related  to the problems 
with Ms Ts flat roof.
Ms T didnt agree all that was required was the minimum repair. It was her firm belief the 
surveyor had intended a full repair/reconstruction was necessary.
Ive read the surveyors report and his subsequent  clarifications.  For example, he notes that 
when carrying out the remedial work theres  a risk wholesale  replacement  of the roof maybe 
required due to the practicalities of carrying out the repairs. But he also said the flat roofing 
was performing at present and that the water ingress he inspected didnt appear related to it. 
I think theres now enough information and progress to bring this complaint to an end. I give 
weight to the surveyors report and opinion on this matter.
Ms T has been in contact  with us a number of times since my second provisional decision. 
Her main concern is to secure  a guarantee for future  works. Given  her experience, I 
understand why she wants  peace  of mind. I think my decision here makes  it clear that Zurich 
is responsible for delivering a lasting and effective repair.  But Id also make the following 
observations:
-As Ms T has been unsatisfied with Zurichs contractors in the past, she can choose  to 
select her own contractor. But if things  go wrong, that would usually  be a matter  
between her and her contractor. Thats because if she has controlled matters and the 
repairs are taken  forward based  on the decisions shes  made, Zurichs responsibility 
inevitably becomes  more remote.
-However, if we thought an insurer  controlled the contractor  then we might say it was 
responsible for them even if it didnt technically appoint  them.  We might say the 
insurer effectively controlled  the repairs if they negotiated with the contractor on the 
extent and/or cost of work, or told them to use certain methods or materials.
-But if the insurer simply agreed to pay the contractors bill, and had no other 
involvement with the repairer, then wed usually say they werent responsible. Who is 
responsible for a repairer is a judgement  call which will very much depend on the 
circumstances of each  case.
-In this case I dont know if Ms T will choose  her own contractor or if shell ask Zurich 
to appoint one of its agents.  If Ms T chooses her own contractor I dont know  what 
the extent of Zurichs  involvement  will be. I dont know  the final scope  of the works. 
So its not possible for me to give Ms T certainty about the future because there are 
so many unknowns. 
Ref: DRN35296495-Its not the role of the Service to manage the claims  and repair  process, which  for 
reasons I understand were being  drawn  into here.  Weve now set out the redress 
required in relation to Ms Ts original dispute.  If matters arise later where  Ms T ends 
up in another  dispute which she is unable to resolve with Zurich, then depending on 
the specific issue raised we might  be involved  at that point.
During consideration of Ms Ts complaint  shes also raised issues about other works carried  
out by Zurichs agents on her home, and other issues arising at her property.  As she will 
appreciate because these relate to other existing or potential future complaints these matters 
are outside  the scope  of this decision. And we cant reconsider matters which have already 
been looked at by the Service.
putting things right
So, Im partially upholding Ms Ts complaint. And I require Zurich  Insurance plc to:
-Complete the works to Ms Ts rear dormer  roof as identified in the surveyors  report  from 
November 2018. In doing so it will be responsible for putting  right any further related 
repairs necessary to ensure a lasting and effective repair of the roof.
-To put right any damage to the inside of Ms Ts property which  has been caused by the 
problems identified  with the rear dormer  roof.
-Pay for the independent survey, if it hasnt done so already.
-Pay a total of £500 for the trouble  and upset Ms T has experienced as a result of delays  
in resolving this matter and given the independent survey  concluded there were 
problems with the workmanship of Zurichs agents.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im partially  upholding Ms Ts complaint. So, I require Zurich 
to put matters right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3529649