K820x#14complaint
Ms Ns complained about the service she received from her motor insurer Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  after she reported a claim.
background
Ms N was involved  in an accident  with another  driver who was also insured by Admiral.  Ms N 
phoned to report  the accident  and wanted to claim from the other drivers policy.  Admiral  
said it would  investigate what  happened  but then said she couldnt  claim from the other 
driver as the engineer  didnt  think the damage was consistent with the accident. Admiral  told 
Ms N her only option would be to claim through her own policy.
Ms N wasnt  happy with this and brought her complaint to us. She thought  shed been 
disadvantaged by both her and the other driver being insured with Admiral.  She was 
unhappy with the information Admiral gave her in the call when she reported  the accident  
and that it later said her only option  was to claim on her own policy.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt  recommend Ms Ns complaint be upheld.  He 
thought Admiral could  have  been clearer about what would happen during the first call. But 
thought its advice to Ms N to claim on her own policy was reasonable as that was the only 
way it could look into her claim against the other  driver.
Ms N didnt agree. She still thought shed been  disadvantaged and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I understand Ms N told us she wanted  to provide further information but hasnt done  so. 
However Im satisfied that I have the information I need to enable me to reach  a decision in 
this case. 
I also realise that Ms N also complained about Admirals  investigation  into the accident and 
that she wasnt able to claim directly from the other  drivers policy. Ive issued a separate  
decision that explains why we cant consider that part of her complaint. 
In this decision I can only comment  on the information Admiral gave Ms N when it was acting 
as her insurer. As Ms N hasnt claimed on her policy that means Ive only considered the 
information it gave  her in the phone call where she reported the accident  and that it said her 
only option was to claim on her own policy.
I appreciate Ms N feels that shes been  disadvantaged because  both she and the other  
driver are insured by Admiral but I dont agree. Its important to set out here that when an 
insurer acts for both drivers they act independently for them both.  So when Admiral told her 
she couldnt claim directly from the other drivers policy it was acting  in its capacity as the 
other drivers  insurer.  
Ref: DRN31339152As Admiral didnt agree to Ms N claiming  directly  from the other drivers policy it said her only 
option if she wanted to claim would be to do so under her policy. I think that advice was 
reasonable as it would provide a way for her to claim. If Ms N chooses to do that and 
remains unhappy with the outcome of the claim she can complain  about  that separately  if 
she wishes. 
I understand Ms N is also unhappy with the information Admiral  gave her in the call where 
she reported the accident. Ive listened  to the call and she was clear  she didnt want to pay 
her excess  as she didnt think the accident was her fault. Admiral told her it would investigate 
what happened. I do think Admiral could have  been  clearer here about what would happen, 
but I dont think  Ms N was disadvantaged. Thats because even if Admiral had been clearer, 
its most  likely she would still have  asked it to look into her claiming directly from the other 
drivers policy.  I say that because she didnt want to pay her excess and she still hasnt 
claimed through her own policy even though she now knows  thats  her only option. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms N hoped for but Im not going to ask Admiral to do 
anything else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3133915