K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about a whole  of life policy  they took out with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.  They have said they never received the most  recent  review  letter  and 
so didnt have  the opportunity to increase their premiums to maintain an acceptable level of 
life cover benefit.
background
Mr and Mrs H purchased  their whole of life policy in 1990. The initial sum assured was
£42,000. The policy was a reviewable one and so, as stated  in the terms and conditions,  it 
should have been reviewed after the first ten years  and then every  five years thereafter.  
However, in 2012  Aviva  discovered the reviews had not been carried out correctly.  It wrote
to Mr and Mrs H explaining this and also set out how it would phase in the required increase 
in premiums or reduction in sum assured  over the next five years.  This letter  presented
Mr and Mrs H with the options of decreasing  the life cover benefit or increasing the premium. 
It also set out clearly that if they didnt reply by a certain date Aviva would default  to the 
position of decreasing the life cover benefit.  This would automatically be applied and would 
continue over the next five years.
Aviva didnt receive a reply to this letter and so as explained in that letter,  it reduced  the 
benefit over the next five years.
Aviva sent Mr and Mrs H letters confirming  the reduction in benefit in 2013, 2014, and 2015 
and again in 2016. During this time it heard nothing from Mr and Mrs H. In 2017 the policy  
was reviewed again and failed. This meant that the amount being paid into the policy wasnt  
enough to maintain the life cover benefit  so, again,  Mr and Mrs H had the option  to either  
accept a reduction in the benefit or increase their premiums to maintain the sum assured 
which was at that point  in time £32,024.  Again no response was received from Mr and Mr H 
so the default  position  was taken by Aviva  and a reduction in the sum assured was applied. 
This was to £7,540  with a premium of £16 per month.
Mr and Mrs H have said they were  not aware of the reduction in life cover until they saw their 
annual statement. They feel the policy isnt what they originally took out and feel it was not 
explained to them this could happen  and so it has been mis-sold. They  also said that they 
wanted the policy returned to its original position because  they never agreed to a reducing 
policy.
Because they were unhappy  with the policy they surrendered it in November 2018 for
£1,289.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it should be 
upheld. She was persuaded that Mr and Mrs H didnt receive any of the documentation and 
that had they received the 2017 review letter they would  have  increased  the premium  to 
maintain the sum assured at £32,024. She therefore asked Aviva to reconstruct the policy  to 
pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they would have received at surrender less the amount  they 
did received less the higher amount they would have paid to get the higher level of cover.
Aviva didnt agree with the assessment. It felt all the letters had been sent to the correct 
address for Mr and Mrs H and had never received any notification that the letters had been 
Ref: DRN31325102returned or undelivered. It also felt Mr and Mrs H should have been aware the policy  was 
reviewable and that the sum assured could reduce.
I issued my provisional findings in June 2019  where  I set out why I felt the complaint couldnt 
be upheld. And extract  is below and forms part of this decision:
I have first considered the fact Aviva failed to review the policy in line with its terms and 
conditions from the outset. Its disappointing  this was the case  but I am pleased  to see Aviva  
identified this in 2012 and made steps to rectify the issue  and put the policy into the position 
it would  have been had the reviews been  carried out correctly. This is what I would expect
any business to do and its only right that this happens otherwise the policy isnt in the correct 
position to meet any potential death claim.
I therefore agree that what Aviva did in 2012  was correct and the most fair way of dealing 
with the situation. I dont  think that has been detrimental to Mr and Mrs H because  if things 
had happened  correctly the options  they were  presented with in 2012 would have been 
presented to Mr and Mrs H in any case,  just perhaps at a different time.
I am therefore satisfied  that the policy was put into the correct  position in 2012  and has 
continued to be in the correct position ever since.
Turning now to the issue of the letters,  Mr and Mrs H have said they didnt receive six years 
worth of letters. But they did receive  the annual  statement in 2018. Ive looked at copies of 
these letters and I can see the addresses  on all of them, including the one that was received,  
is the same  as the address we have on our file for Mr and Mrs H. It therefore seems unlikely 
to me that letters over six years were  not received especially when the letter  that was 
received was sent to the same address as all of the others Mr and Mrs H say they didnt get.
However even if there were problems within the postal system I dont think  Aviva can be held 
responsible for this. It also didnt receive  any notification that the address  was wrong or that 
Mr and Mrs H had gone away so it wouldnt have  known  there  could have been a problem 
with the post at some point along  the line. I therefore think  it did all it was obliged to in lieu of 
being told anything  else about the address.
As already mentioned the letters detailed all the options and potential consequences  so
I think the letters gave  Mr and Mrs H enough  information with regards to the impact of the 
changes of the policy.
The letter in 2012 stated the next review would be on 4 September  2017 and also the yearly 
statement sent in May 2016 clearly stated the policy would be reviewed  next in September  
2017. This letter also stated the life cover amount may change following  this review. The 
reviews were also explained in the policys details that Mr and Mrs H would have been given 
at the time they took it out. Therefore I think there are several points when Mr and Mrs H 
would have been in a position to know  the policy was being  reviewed and that the life cover 
could change. Again I know they have  said they received nothing from Aviva  but as I have 
said above I think this is unlikely but even  if this was the case the documentation they were 
given at the time of the sale would have  explained the reviewable nature of the policy.
I also think Aviva acted  correctly in reducing the life cover benefit when it didnt receive  a 
response from Mr and Mrs H. Without authorisation no business can increase the amount a 
Ref: DRN31325103policy holder pays  into a policy therefore the only other choice was to reduce the sum 
assured.
Overall therefore I cant safely conclude that Aviva  made an error or did anything wrong in its 
dealings with Mr and Mrs H. All the letters sent look to have been correctly addressed and 
there was been  no indication  that none of them was received by Mr and Mrs H. I also think  
its unlikely that all letters over the six years failed  to be delivered. I think  Mr and Mrs H 
would have been aware the policy was reviewable  from the documentation  from the sale and 
also from 2012 onwards  as these details was clearly  stated in the letters.  And I think Aviva  
did all it could to put the policy  back into the position it should have been in had the reviews  
been carried out correctly and from 2017 reviewed the policy  correctly.
Neither Aviva nor Mr and Mrs H responded to or commented on the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  comments were provided  by either party I have no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3132510