K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that London & Colonial Services Limiteds (L&C) error caused  him to 
lose out financially  when  he withdrew  monies from his pension.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint in March  2020 (attached). I said I was 
minded not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. But, I left him to decide  whether he wished to accept 
L&Cs offer of £300 to resolve his complaint. I invited representations from both Mr W and 
L&C before issuing a final decision.  
L&C accepted my provisional decision.  Mr W said he was surprised that the adjudicators 
recommendation was not being  upheld. He also said that as far as he knew L&C were  not 
part of the same international group as [the SIPP provider].
Mr Ws complaint  comes  back to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  No new information  has been sent in to cause me to change  
my view. My reasons therefore  remain the same as set out in that provisional  decision  see 
attached. 
I am therefore not upholding Mr Ws complaint for the reasons explained.
To clarify Mr Ws point about the various businesses involved, I said in my provisional 
decision that L&C were part of the same group as the provider of the Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension, not part of the same international group as the SIPP provider.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, but I leave  it to Mr W to decide whether he wants to accept 
London & Colonial Services Limiteds  offer of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35263422Provisional decision 13 March 2020
complaint
Mr W complains  that London  & Colonial Services Limiteds (L&C) error  caused him to lose out 
financially when he withdrew monies from his pension.
background
On 22 February 2018,  Mr Ws financial  adviser wrote to a number of organisations informing them 
that Mr W intended to set up a new self invested personal  pension (SIPP), take a pension  
commencement lump sum (PCLS) within the current tax year then drawdown  £11,500 in that same 
tax year (2017/18). The adviser said after April, Mr W then planned  to take the remaining amount  
from his fund in the new 2018/19 tax year, closing his new SIPP afterwards.
L&C was one of the businesses this communication was sent to. As there are a number of 
companies involved  here,  I will try to identify  them  by the activity they carried out in connection  
with Mr Ws pension.  For ease  of reference, Ill refer to the company that the financial adviser 
worked for as the IFA company.
Mr W signed  an application to open  a new SIPP. This application was dated 26 February
2018. Ill refer to the company providing the SIPP  as the SIPP company. The IFA company and the 
SIPP company were part of the same international  group.  Ill refer to this international group as 
Group 1.
The SIPP application said this about  Mr Ws circumstances:
he was 55 and planned  to retire at 55;
he was living in Thailand;
the IFA company was his independent financial adviser;
the SIPP  investment manager was the SIPP company;
payment needed to be made in the 2017/18 tax year to utilise Mr Ws annual  
personal allowance;
the transferring  scheme was a Maltese Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension
Scheme (QROPS).  Ill refer to this as the QROPS  scheme;
Mr Ws fund had an estimated transfer value  of around  £35,630;
the pension fund was all held in cash;
Mr W wanted to take a PCLS,  then drawdown £11,500 in the 2017/18 tax year and the 
remaining amount in the 2018/19  tax year.
L&C were part of the same group as the provider  of the QROPS. Ill refer to this group  as
Group 2.
L&C says it understood Mr W was not able to take 100% cash from his QROPS, therefore  if he 
wanted to do this; he needed to set up the SIPP to take the full cash  value.
By email dated 12 March  2018, L&C told the SIPP company that it could only make payment in the 
current tax year if all the requirements had been met before 5 April 2018. In an email  dated 22 March 
2018, it was apparent that some items were still outstanding.
In an email  dated 24 March  2018, from the IFA company to the QROPS scheme  provider  and the 
SIPP company, the IFA company asked if anything was outstanding from the client or the SIPP 
companys side and stated again the payment needed  to be made  in the current tax year.
Ref: DRN35263423By email dated 26 March  2018, the QROPS  scheme provider asked L&C to chase up the missing 
items. It said this had been asked  for a few times and really needed to be couriered today.
In an email  to the QROPS  provider dated 28 March  2018, L&C said it had everything it needed 
to make the payment except the funds. It said once the funds were received  it would  be in 
position to make  payment to the client.
According to L&C, to make payment to the client, HMRC required L&C to first set up the client 
account and then deduct tax using an emergency tax code. This means  the clients  personal 
allowance would not at first be used,  but HMRC  would  then investigate and revise  the tax code as 
necessary.
L&C later accepted  in an email to Mr W dated 20 July 2018, that an error occurred whilst  trying to 
liaise with the QROPS  scheme provider. It said this resulted in a processing  delay of 10 working 
days. It said it was checking to see if Mr W had been caused any loss as a result of this delay.
Mr W said hed lost out because  he wasnt able to utilise his tax allowance in the way he 
intended in 2017/18  and this was due solely to L&Cs  slippage.
L&C, following an internal investigation, said the documentation  needed  was not received  until 26 
March. It said the forms were processed, signed and sent on 4 April.  This was seven working days  
later. L&C said it had an aspirational service standard of 2 working days  to deal with documents, but 
this was not always possible. L&C said that the documentation was then sent to an incorrect address 
on 4 April 2018. It says it was returned on 9 April 2018.
It said the tax loss Mr W had suffered  (around  £2,370) was primarily due to an incorrect tax code 
being used by HMRC  for the payment made to him.
L&C said that even if it had met its aspirational 2 days service standard, this wouldnt all have 
been completed by 5 April 2018. It went into more  detail about the relevant dates. It said Mr Ws 
application was received  on 8 March 2018.  It was accepted on 16 March  (but it was not 
uncommon for applications to be accepted  on its system  whilst additional information  was still 
being obtained). It said it received  the final documents to enable it to process  the application on 
26 March. This included Mr Ws original  proof of identity and proof of address.
It said even  if the 2 days service standard had been met (which  it wasnt  due to work volumes at the 
time) there would still have  been insufficient time to complete all matters for payment to be made  in 
the 2017/18 tax year. It said had L&C met its aspirational target to send  the documents  to Malta 
within 2 days, Malta  wouldve received  the documents on 2 or 3 April 2018,  taking into account non 
working days either end. It said colleagues  in Malta would then have taken  some time to process  
and release the funds, a function that L&C was not in control  of. So, it said, it wouldnt have been 
feasible to make  payment before the year end. L&C said that Mr W might want to investigate earlier 
delays and contact the IFA company in Thailand, given there was a 12 day delay earlier in the 
process. Im not aware that Mr W has pursued that option.
On 16 March, L&C says it received a conflicting instruction from the IFA company saying that Mr W 
wanted now to take all his funds in one go. But, Mr W says, L&Cs slippage is the reason  he finally 
elected to take full drawdown in one go.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint.  He said L&C had been on notice since 22 February 2018,  
that Mr W wanted to set up the SIPP  and take his benefits in the manner  set out above.
He said there  were nine working days between 22 March  when all the necessary  paperwork was 
received and 4 April when it was processed and sent out.
Ref: DRN35263424Our adjudicator said hed found on the internet that documents  could be couriered to Malta within 1 
to 3 days. So, it was feasible, in his view,  that they couldve  been collected  the next day and 
delivered within this time frame to Malta. He worked  on the basis that the documents couldve been 
sent to Malta  on 26 March to arrive  between 29 and 30 March, which would have left 4 or 5 working 
days to 5 April 2018. He said that as L&C was part of Group 2, it should  be possible to make an inter 
bank transfer.  He also said that on 28 March 2018, L&C said it had everything it needed, except the 
funds.
He felt therefore, that there  wouldve been  enough time in the 4 to 5 days remaining  for the transfer 
to go ahead and for Mr W to immediately  take his PCLS and drawdown his benefits  in the 2017/18  
tax year.
L&C didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for the case  to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It said in response,  in summary:
   the error that L&C made did not lead directly to the tax loss Mr W claims;
   posting the documentation to the correct address would still not have given sufficient time 
to complete the first stage of the drawdown  process by 5 April 2018;
   the 7 working  day period  that L&C referred to, rather than the 9 days that our 
adjudicator mentioned, took into account the Easter public holidays; 
   both L&C and the QROPS provider were  involved  in communicating with the IFA 
company. L&C did not receive a full set of documents until 26 March. It acknowledged  
that by email 2 days later.
   had the remaining  documents  been issued by Group 1 sooner, Mr Ws instructions 
couldve been completed on time.
Our adjudicator said that L&C had not shown  how the IFA companys delay had impacted on the 
transfer process. He remained of the view that the transfer couldve been completed on time,  but for 
L& Cs error.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am currently minded not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Its Mr Ws view that L&C is solely responsible for his loss and because of its slippage  in sending the 
documents to the wrong address, he has lost out financially. I currently dont see it that way. I will 
explain why.
Mr W, through his IFA advisers,  clearly articulated his intentions in February  2018.  Although by 16 
March (before  in my view blame  can reasonably be laid at L&Cs door for any delays) he seemed to 
have changed his mind  about his intentions and decided he wanted to take all his money  in one go.
But, businesses can only act on instructions when all the required documentation  is in order,  it 
cannot act on intentions. So, for L&C to act it had to be in possession of the relevant  documentation  
required to enable it to do so  in this case  to process Mr Ws request to set up the SIPP,  facilitate 
the transfer and pay out the PCLS and drawdown monies after transfer.
It appears not to be in dispute that L&C wasnt in possession of the relevant documentation until 26 
March. And it confirmed on the 28 March, in a timely  way in my view, that this was the case, all bar 
having the money in place.
Ref: DRN35263425The information that was missing until 26 March  included  Mr Ws proof of identity and proof of 
address. These were  understandably  key documents in this process. Its not been suggested  that 
its L&Cs fault these documents werent  provided before 26 March.
So, in effect,  by the time L&C had all the required  documentation, taking into account UK public  
holidays, there was 6 working days left to enable everything to be done for the payments out of 
the new SIPP  to be made before the year end.
L&C said its aspirational service standard was to process the paperwork within 48 hours. The 
documents then had to be couriered to Malta  taking possibly up to 3 days, even at non-holiday 
times. Malta, Im told, also had two days of public holidays (not fully aligned with the UK dates) at 
this time.  The QROPS provider  then had to process the couriered documentation.  L&C wasnt in 
control of this aspect and Ive not been told what the QROPS providers usual  processing service 
standards were and what impact the Maltese public  holidays may have had on processing.  The 
money then had to be transferred from Malta to the UK. Finally, L&C had to pay the money out as 
per Mr Ws instructions. 
The date of the tax year end wouldve been known  to all the businesses  involved here, and Mr W. It 
wouldve also been known that it was Easter and there were public  holidays which  may impact  on 
timescales. Its also not unusual for there to be a flurry of activity at the tax year end affecting  
delivery timescales.
What I must do here is balance whether it is fair to hold a company who performs  a task towards  the 
end of a chain  of actions solely responsible for missing  the end of year deadline,  when they receive 
the required information late and there appear to have been earlier  identifiable delays which  have put 
extra pressure on delivery timescales.
Im not currently satisfied that L&C can be held fully or partially responsible for the loss Mr W sets 
out. Nor am I currently satisfied that in the 6 working days left, even if the documents  had been sent 
to the right address by L&C,  all of this wouldve been done on time.  I cant see that this was probably  
achievable. I currently think its more likely  it wasnt, because of the actions that still needed  to be 
taken after 26 March to meet the deadline. Looking  at this as a whole, I do not currently agree that 
L&C is solely  responsible for this not being completed on time.  I agree  with L&C it seems unfair that 
the other delays, which if not present, might have led to the documentation  being  all present and 
correct sooner, are effectively to be disregarded as Mr W has chosen to hold L&C wholly  
responsible.
In reaching this provisional  conclusion, I have taken into account the overseas element, that there 
were public holidays  in both countries, there were four companies involved,  and L&C and others 
were reliant on others  to act in a timely  way for this to be achievable. Ive also taken into account  
that I cant see that L&C was responsible for the paperwork not being complete earlier than 26 
March.
I understand  that L&C has offered to pay Mr W £300 by way of an ex gratia  payment to acknowledge 
that it did send the documentation  to the wrong Maltese address. As I see it currently, even if L&C 
had been sent the documentation to the correct address, I do not think that it wouldve made a 
difference here. Inevitably, however, L&Cs  mistake has caused  Mr W some  trouble and upset. Its 
certainly led him to believe that it wouldve  all been done on time, but for L&Cs  error. In these  
circumstances, I currently consider L&Cs response is a fair one to recognise  the trouble  and upset  
caused. I will leave Mr W to decide  whether  he wants to accept this offer of settlement. I cant 
currently see that it would  be fair or reasonable to make any other award  in this case  for the reasons  
I have explained. I do not currently  consider that the financial losses Mr W claims are a direct 
consequence of L&Cs error here. So I am not minded to make  an award for financial loss.
Ref: DRN35263426my provisional  decision
I am currently  minded not to uphold this complaint, but I leave it to Mr W to decide  whether he 
wants to accept  London  & Colonial Services Limiteds  offer of £300.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3526342