K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is about the delays in considering  a claim on their legal expenses 
insurance policy by Great Lakes Insurance SE.
They feel their position has been  prejudiced so want Great  Lakes to pay them the value  of 
their underlying claim.
All references to Great Lakes  include  their claims handlers.
background
Mr and Mrs L made a claim on their legal expenses  insurance policy  to bring a claim against 
a building  contractor  for work done  to their property. Great  Lakes considered the claim but 
said it wasnt covered because the policy excluded  construction  and building  work.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with this so complained to our service. An investigator 
considered their complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said the work  in question 
was decoration and refurbishment rather than construction so he asked Great  Lakes to 
consider the claim  further under the remaining policy terms.
Great Lakes did this by agreeing to instruct a panel firm to consider the claim. Mr and Mrs L 
didnt hear anything further so complained to our service and Great  Lakes again. Great 
Lakes then provided them with a copy of the panel firms assessment over four months  after 
agreeing to carry it out. The assessment  was dated a month or so after Great Lakes agreed 
to carry out the assessment so there was about  a three month  delay in disclosing it to Mr 
and Mrs L. Great Lakes  apologised  for this and offered them  £100  as compensation for the 
delay.
The panel  firms opinion was that the claim should be brought  against the building  
contractors company rather than the building contractor directly,  but that the prospects of 
recovery against the company were low so the prospects of the claim succeeding overall 
werent enough for the claim to be covered  by Great Lakes. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They thought the panel  firm had failed to take into account further 
information theyd  provided before the opinion was disclosed to them and that the claim 
should be brought against the building contractor directly rather than his company. They  also 
said the issue wasnt straightforward and might  need to be resolved as part of any claim 
theyd be bringing.  
Great Lakes referred  the matter back  to their panel  firm. There was a further  delay in advice  
being obtained and then another  delay  in it being disclosed to Mr and Mrs L. This time the 
panel firm said further information would be required to establish  the merits of and the value 
of the claim but that as matters stood,  prospects of success, including  prospects of recovery  
werent enough to meet  the threshold  set out by the policy. Because  of this Great Lakes 
declined to cover Mr and Mrs Ls claim further.
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the time its taken Great  Lakes to deal with their claim. They 
feel that Great Lakes  unnecessarily  delayed  dealing with their claim for 18 months and that 
theyve continually looked for ways  to avoid cover. They dispute  the advice provided  by the 
panel firm and feel that what theyve said hasnt been taken into account.  Mr and Mrs L also 
say that the time Great Lakes have taken  to review their claim caused them considerable 
Ref: DRN36985342stress because their property was in a poor state,  they couldnt repair anything without 
advice so more  damage  was caused  as a result.  They  also say Great Lakes delay in 
considering things has meant theyre  now prevented from bringing their claim.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and concluded that it should be 
upheld. He thought Great Lakes had taken more time than was reasonable to obtain an 
assessment of their complaint from its panel firm and then to provide them with the further  
information Mr and Mrs L had provided. Because of this he said Great Lakes should pay Mr 
and Mrs L £200  to compensate them for these  delays.  Mr and Mrs L werent happy with this; 
they thought their claim should be covered or the value of it should be paid to them.  
Because of this, the matter was passed to me to decide. I reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint and reached a provisional view of it which the investigator put to both parties.  I 
agreed with the investigator that Great Lakes  didnt do anything  wrong  by turning down 
cover but I also thought  the delays in their dealing with things were  unreasonable.  Because 
of this I said Great Lakes  should pay £350  as compensation for this. 
Great Lakes disagreed. They said this type of policy wasnt  designed  to cover a dispute  of 
this scale and the limit of indemnity reflected that.  When responding, they provided an 
opinion from both the panel  firm and a barrister. The panel firm seemed to suggest  the 
barristers advice wasnt supportive of Mr and Mrs Ls claim having prospects of recovery, 
but the advice itself from the barrister didnt  read that way. It said the claim did have 
prospects of success but further information  would be required. It also said the likely 
defendant in the claim was the building contractor  himself and not his company but that 
proceedings should be issued against both to cover both possibilities. On the issue  of 
prospects of recovery, the barrister agreed with the panel firms  reservations  about the value  
of the company being low but he also said prospects were more  positive as against the 
building contractor himself. He went on to say a charge could well be obtained against the 
property the building contractor jointly owns to enforce  any judgement against him. The 
panel firm commented  that this might  mean  the claim couldnt be satisfied for many years.
After considering the further evidence Great Lakes provided, I expressed  a second 
provisional view to the parties. I explained the advice  Great  Lakes had received represented 
a clear departure from their previous position that the claim should  be brought against  the 
building contractors company and that there were no prospects of recovery for this because 
the value of that company  was low. I also said that Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with this position 
and maintained the claim should be brought against  the building contractor himself- which  
the barrister seemed to concur with, although  he also said the claim should be brought  
against both parties.  Because  of this I took the view the position  was now unclear. I also 
rejected the points Great Lakes had raised  about the nature of the policy  being  one that 
wasnt intended to cover disputes  like Mr and Mrs Ls. I explained that the nature of the 
policy didnt negate an insurers duty to carry out a proper legal assessment. Because  of this 
I said Great Lakes should obtain a proper  legal assessment from a barrister that fully 
determines the issue of prospects of recovery. I also said this should  be done with reference 
to Mr and Mrs L which  means Great Lakes would need to ask them for all the information the 
barrister needs and they want  to provide for the assessment to be carried  out. 
Great Lakes responded to my second provisional view. They didnt feel they could go on 
forever obtaining different legal  views from different legal professionals as a satisfactory  
outcome might never  be obtained  They also felt that no progress has been  made  on Mr and 
Mrs Ls case since 2018 and that the costs in pursuing this case would far outweigh the limit 
of indemnity. Great Lakes also said the prospects of recovery  were non-existent against an 
Ref: DRN36985343individual or company which  no longer  existed  and that a charging order on the building 
contractors property might never  be satisfied  if the property isnt sold.  Because  of this they 
felt there  wasnt a cheap or quick outcome to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have also replied to both of my provisional views  on this complaint.  They  
initially disagreed  that my first view. They felt the compensation Id suggested didnt go far 
enough and that Great Lakes should consider their claim. In response to my second  view, 
they made detailed  submissions about Great Lakes initial and subsequent decisions to turn 
down their claim for cover. 
They also explained why theyre now prevented from bringing their claim. They  said this is 
because in July 2018, they received a letter before action from the building contractor for 
non-payment of his fees. They instructed a local firm to defend  them but after a significant 
amount of correspondence  nothing further happened.  They say their solicitor advised that 
that due to the time that had elapsed since the work  took place, the delay in bringing a 
counterclaim against the contractor would now compromise their prospects of winning a 
claim. They feel Great Lakes are to blame for this because they needed their support to fund 
the claim but this was refused. Theyve also asked why a further opinion from barrister  is 
necessary, if the current one is supportive  of their claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that Mr and Mrs 
Ls complaint should be upheld for the same reasons I expressed in my second  provisional 
view. But I also remain of the view Great  Lakes should pay compensation as noted in my 
first provisional view.
Virtually all legal expenses insurance policies require the claim a policyholder wishes to 
bring to have reasonable prospects of success. Mr and Mrs Ls policy  is no exception.  We 
dont think thats  unreasonable.  It wouldnt be prudent  for a privately paying person to pay 
the costs of a claim thats unlikely to succeed. A legal expenses  insurer shouldnt be 
expected to either. 
Where an insurer has turned down a claim because the merits of the claim dont meet the 
policy threshold, it isnt for us to decide  whether the legal advice it relied on was correct- only 
that the insurer obtained a properly reasoned legal opinion from a suitably qualified  legal 
professional. Great  Lakes did that. The initial and subsequent opinion  of the panel firm was 
that the claim didnt  have  reasonable prospects  of success. The policy  terms only cover 
claims that are deemed more likely  than not to be successful. I dont think  its unreasonable 
to say a successful case is one where a policyholder has reasonable prospects of recovery  
from the other party. So I dont think Great Lakes did anything wrong by turning down Mr and 
Mrs Ls claim after this service  directed  it to obtain an assessment  of the claim. Thats  
because it did so in reliance of the panel firms opinion. 
Since then however, a barristers opinion has been  obtained that suggests there are 
reasonable prospects of recovery against the building  contractor. The panel firm said that 
any judgments against the building contractor could remain unsatisfied  for years but the 
barrister made no comment in relation to this issue and his opinion suggested that prospects 
of recovery were positive. Because of this advice,  I think  Great  Lakes now need to do more 
to ensure theyve  obtained a proper assessment of Mr and Mrs Ls claim.   I direct  that the 
same barrister that provided  the most recent opinion should be instructed  to consider Mr and 
Ref: DRN36985344Mrs Ls claim in more  detail- including the prospects of success and recovery  to fully 
determine these  issues. And he should do so with reference to Mr and Mrs L, which  means 
Great Lakes will need to ask them  for all the information the barrister needs and they want to 
provide for the assessment to be carried out. 
Mr and Mrs L have talked  about being advised by their own solicitor  that the delay in brining 
a claim or counterclaim against the building contractor may now have  compromised their 
claim. Given the advice  they received, they should provide the barrister with copies of all the 
correspondence between  their solicitor and the building  contractor so that he can determine  
that issue. They should however note that if their claim is prejudiced as a result  of delay or 
anything that was said or done by their own solicitor, thats not something Im likely to say 
Great Lakes are responsible for. Thats because Ive already determined that Great Lakes 
were entitled  to decline cover in reliance of the panel firms advice.  
And although Mr and Mrs L wanted  Great  Lakes  to cover their claim for legal costs, they 
were at liberty to pursue it themselves or on a privately paying  basis  in order to mitigate their 
losses. I appreciate they didnt do so but I dont  think this means Great  Lakes needs  to pay 
them the value  of their claim against the building contractor as a consequence.  Mr and Mrs L 
should note that if theyre not able to provide the barrister with all of the correspondence  
between their solicitor and the building contractor, he wont be in a position  to provide an 
accurate assessment of their claim, which isnt something Im likely to say Great  Lakes is 
responsible for.
I know Great Lakes feels the policy Mr and Mrs L purchased wasnt  designed to cover  a 
dispute of this scale. They say the limit of indemnity reflects that. As I said before, the nature 
of the policy  and the value  of any prospective claim doesnt negate an insurers duty to carry 
out a proper legal assessment. The limit of indemnity available  on this policy is £50,000.  If 
Mr and Mrs Ls claim is one that attracts cover under the policy  terms then theyll be entitled 
to cover up to that amount. If that isnt sufficient to help them  with their dispute then it will be 
up to them  to decide whether they wish to cover  any further costs themselves. 
And I dont  agree that prospects of recovery against  the building  contractor are non existent 
as Great  Lakes says or that the building contractor or his company no longer exists.  Theres 
no evidence to support  this. The barristers  opinion Great Lakes  has provided is entirely at 
odds with those  assertions.  It might be right that theres no cheap  or quick  outcome to Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim  but that isnt a requirement  of the policy and although that might  be 
desirable to all concerned, including Great Lakes,  I dont think  its a reason why a proper 
assessment shouldnt be obtained and if positive, cover provided.
In addition to the above,  I remain of the view that the time Great  Lakes took to consider Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim  under  the policy terms was unreasonable. The advice they obtained from 
the panel firm on the first occasion wasnt disclosed to Mr and Mrs L for just over four 
months after it was received. That has little to do with the complexity of the claim as Great 
Lakes suggest.  And when  they went back to the panel firm for a further opinion, this wasnt  
provided to Mr and Mrs L for another  five weeks. This was against the back drop of this 
services direction that Great  Lakes should consider Mr and Mrs Ls claim because  it was 
wrongly declined.  And Mr and Mrs L had made  clear they were living in difficult  
circumstances because  of the work that had been  conducted to their property. Theyd also 
told Great  Lakes about the stress and difficulty this had been causing them.  Because  of this 
I think Great Lakes should also pay Mr and Mrs L £350 for the trouble and upset their delays 
have caused them.  
Ref: DRN36985345fair compensation
Great Lakes should:
Instruct the same barrister that provided the most recent opinion to consider Mr and 
Mrs Ls claim in more  detail- including the prospects of success and recovery  to fully 
determine these  issues. The barrister should do so with reference to Mr and Mrs L, 
which means Great Lakes  will need  to ask them for all the information the barrister 
needs and they want to provide for the assessment to be carried out. They might 
consider doing  this by way of a conference  with the barrister, if this proves  more  cost 
effective, although thats ultimately a matter for Great Lakes  to decide.
pay Mr and Mrs L £350  for the trouble  and upset the delays in dealing with their claim 
have caused them.  
Mr and Mrs L will need to provide the barrister with copies of all the correspondence 
between their solicitor and the building contractor in order to allow him to determine  the 
merits of the claim and whether their position  has been prejudiced in any way.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against  Great Lakes Insurance  SE and direct  them  to 
comply with my award of fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3698534