K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI started at the same time as Mr and Mrs Es mortgage. I havent seen anything  that 
makes me think Halifax didnt make it clear  that Mr and Mrs E had a choice about  taking  the 
cover. So on balance I think its likely Halifax made  it clear that Mr and Mrs E didnt have to 
take the cover and they chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs E, so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them. Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on. But given how long ago the sale 
was, that isnt surprising. The PPI was cover to help protect Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  in 
case of Mr Es unemployment or disability. And based on what Mr and Mrs E have told us of 
their circumstances at the time, I think the cover was right for them.
For example, Mr E wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover  (like 
exclusions for existing  health  issues).  And from what Mr and Mrs E have told us, Mr E was 
entitled to less than six months  work  sick pay.  For a successful sickness  or unemployment 
claim the PPI benefit wouldve paid out for longer  - up to twelve  months - and in addition  to 
his work  benefits.  Mr and Mrs E have said they didnt need the cover  because  of the savings 
they had. But by helping with mortgage  costs, the PPI benefit wouldve given Mr and Mrs E 
more security and helped protect  their savings at what couldve been a difficult  time if Mr E 
was too sick to work. Taking all this into account,  although Mr E was entitled to redundancy 
pay from his employer, I think  Mr and Mrs E had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take the cover   so it looks to me like they wanted 
this type of cover. And, for the reasons Ive given above, it seems  like the cover  wouldve 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  Taking everything into account, I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs E off taking the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Es points but, for the reasons Ive already  given  and 
in the light of all Ive said above,  these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Ref: DRN33786222Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3378622