K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains Alphabet (GB)  Ltd has failed  to pay her a pro rata refund that she feels is 
due on a lease  agreement following the theft of her vehicle. 
background
I set out the background  to Miss Hs complaint in my provisional  decision.  Ill summarise it 
again here. 
Miss H took out a lease agreement with Alphabet in July 2016. The agreement  was for a 24-
month period.  She paid advanced rental  payments of £2511.00 and advanced maintenance 
charges of £173.16.
Miss H was then required  to make a further 23 monthly rental payments of £279.00, and 23 
monthly maintenance payments of £19.24.
Unfortunately, Miss Hs vehicle was stolen after 11 months and, in accordance  with her 
agreement, she asked Alphabet to provide her with a settlement figure for her insurance  
company.  Alphabet said the CAP value  of the vehicle was £22,388.89,  with an early 
termination fee of £115.02. So the total settlement figure was £22,503.91.
Miss Hs insurance settled the balance, but Miss H felt she was also due a refund on a pro 
rata basis  for the advanced rentals  and the advanced maintenance charges shed paid, but 
which shed no longer benefit  from without  the car. So she asked Alphabet to look into this 
for her.
Miss H didnt receive a response to her request  for a breakdown of monies due, and she 
remained in regular email  contact with Alphabet throughout December. Initially it said Miss H 
was due one months  rental charges and a pro rata refund of the advanced rentals  and 
maintenance charges, which totalled £298.24  + VAT and a further £508.33 +VAT.
Miss H queried how Alphabet had reached  this amount, as she had calculated  a higher 
figure, and she asked for a further  breakdown. She says she had to continually chase 
Alphabet for a response  and when they did eventually respond, they then said they had 
made an error and she wasnt  due a refund after all. They apologised for their mistake and 
offered Miss H £75 by way of an apology.
Miss H was very unhappy with this development, and the delays she had experienced, which  
caused her a great deal of frustration and inconvenience. And she still didnt feel she had 
received a satisfactory or correct response, so she asked this service  to look into matters for 
her.
Our investigator looked at all the information and the explanation offered by Alphabet as to 
how they had reached their outcome.  She specifically looked  to see if Alphabet  had 
benefitted in some way by giving incorrect information to Miss H, but she couldnt  see that 
they had. However,  she did feel that Alphabet could have provided more  information and 
made things  clearer  from the start. 
She thought  Miss H had received poor customer service and suggested  Alphabet increase 
the redress offered  to £100 in recognition of this.
Ref: DRN31192102Both Miss H and Alphabet disagreed with this outcome.  
Miss H felt there  still hadnt been  any clarity on how Alphabet reached their decision that 
shes not entitled to a refund, and Alphabet  still felt their offer of £75 was a fair and 
reasonable amount and shouldnt be increased.
my provisional findings
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh and, after doing so I didnt 
agree with the investigators view. I said I was expecting to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. 
This is a most unfortunate situation for Miss H. She has taken out a lease agreement for a 
brand new vehicle, only to have it stolen  within 11 months. I can appreciate this must  have  
been quite upsetting and caused a great deal of inconvenience.
I could see Miss H did everything she should  in line with her contractual  agreement.  She 
informed Alphabet as soon  as the theft occurred and notified  her insurance company. She 
asked Alphabet to provide a settlement figure, which they did very quickly, and she arranged 
for her insurance company to settle the balance Alphabet provided.
She then asked Alphabet about  any potential  refund  of the advanced rentals and 
maintenance charges she had paid. Its from this point  on that Miss H struggled to gain a 
response to what I would have thought was a perfectly legitimate question  was she entitled 
to any refund and if so how much?
Alphabet have already acknowledged there were delays in responding to Miss H and they 
provided her, they say, with incorrect information when they wrote to her informing her she 
was due a pro-rate  refund  of £508.33  + VAT. 
Unfortunately, neither  Miss H nor this service has seen how they reached this calculation, 
which they later claimed to be incorrect. So I can understand  then why, after this, Miss H 
became even more  upset  and frustrated.
Miss H has asserted a pro rata refund is due to her because the insurance  has settled the 
full capital value  cost of the vehicle as defined by the independent valuation  Alphabet  
provided. She feels she is out of pocket on the advanced rentals she paid. This is because  
she paid:
Advanced rentals £2511.00
Advanced maintenance charges £ 173.16
Total upfront  payment: £2684.16
She was then due to pay 23 monthly rental payments of £279.00 and £19.24  for 
maintenance charges.
Ref: DRN31192103Had the vehicle  not been stolen, and she had maintained the contract  to the end, she would 
have paid a total of £9543.68   (£ 279.00 x 23 + £19.24 x 23 +£2511.00 +£173.16).
But Miss H only had the vehicle for 11 months and so actually paid £2684.16 upfront and 
£3280.64 (11 x £279.00 + 11 x £19.24) a total of £5964.80.
Alphabet has argued that had Miss H not paid the advanced monthly rentals  the monthly 
cost would have  been higher and so would  have produced a shortfall.  In other  words,  when 
the contract  ended because of the theft of the vehicle, had she not paid the upfront rentals, 
there would have been a shortfall on the finance  due to Alphabet.
In looking at the agreement, the monthly  cost without the upfront rentals  and charges would 
be £397.65 (£279.00 + £19.24 x 23 + £2511 +173.16) / 24). So if Miss H hadnt paid the 
upfront advanced  rentals and maintenance charges she would only have paid £397.65 x 11 
months = £4374.15.
But she has actually paid £5964.80, and this seems  to put Miss H at a financial 
disadvantage for something  that wasnt her fault. 
So in terms  of the assertion that had Miss H not paid the advanced rentals  there would be a 
shortfall, I dont agree  from what Ive seen that is the case. And from the information 
Alphabet have provided Miss H appears to be due a refund of £1590.00.
Miss H also reached the same calculation, which she sent to Alphabet. They  originally said 
she was due a refund of £508.33  + VAT,  but havent provided any breakdown  of this figure. 
And subsequently  have  said they were wrong, and dont believe shes  entitled  to any refund 
at all.
Alphabet has made a further assertion regarding the depreciation of the vehicle and the way 
in which  the company calculates the True Cost. But Im not persuaded the one is linked to 
the other.  By that, I mean the depreciation of the vehicle is attributed to the capital value of 
the vehicle and presumably, this was included in the settlement figure Alphabet  gave to the 
insurance company.  
Im not persuaded the depreciation of the vehicle  is relevant to any advanced payments 
made by Miss H or any pro-rata  refund that may be due.
I can also see from the correspondence between Miss H and Alphabet  that she asked  it on 
more than three occasions to provide the calculation of how they reached  the original refund 
amount and then how they reached  the decision that no refund was due. It took a significant 
length of time for Alphabet to respond and Im not persuaded  the calculations  it eventually 
provided answer Miss Hs original  complaint.
From what  Ive seen, Miss H seems  to be out of pocket  and I dont think thats fair and 
reasonable - considering her vehicle was stolen and she acted promptly to both inform the 
lease company and instruct  her insurance company to settle the balance outstanding. 
Further, I dont think she received the standard  of customer  service she should  have 
expected from Alphabet,  in terms of both their delayed  response and her request they 
provide breakdowns of how they reached  their decision. So Im persuaded they should 
compensate her for this.
Ref: DRN31192104I said I intended to uphold this complaint, and to ask Alphabet to put things right by:
refunding Miss H  a proportion of the advanced rentals and the maintenance charges 
totalling £1590.00.
paying her £300 compensation for her distress  and inconvenience.
I invited both Alphabet  and Miss H to respond  which they both did. Miss H accepted the 
provisional findings. 
Alphabet partially  accepted my provisional decision.  They agreed they had failed to provide 
an adequate explanation  and delayed the responses to Miss H. They accept they didnt 
provide the standard  of service Miss H should have expected. They  also agreed Miss H 
shouldnt be paying  for the maintenance charges element within the contract.  
Alphabet have agreed to refund Miss H all the maintenance charges from the contract  
£304.57 + VAT (this comprises of £144.27 upfront payment and £16.03 x 10 monthly 
payments) and £300 for the trouble and upset this matter  caused Miss H.
But they disagree with the refund of the upfront rental payments and have  provided  
additional submissions  for my consideration.
my findings
I thank both parties for their response, and Alphabet for its additional submissions which  
have finally  offered some clarity to the manner in which the calculations have been reached 
with regard to the valuation  of the vehicle for settlement purposes. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments afresh to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partially  
uphold this complaint.  Please allow me to explain why.
Alphabet have recognised the trouble and upset  this matter has caused Miss H and have 
agreed to increase the compensation to £300 and refund the maintenance element of the 
rentals including the upfront payment totalling  £304.57 + VAT.  They  have also made  
additional submissions  regarding the upfront rentals  paid by Miss H and explained  why in 
their view they have already accounted for them in the valuation of the vehicle for settlement 
purposes. They argue if refunded this would be financially detrimental to them. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the contract hire agreement between Miss H and Alphabet.  The terms 
and conditions of the agreement do allow for the depreciation of the vehicle over the term of 
the agreement. This is built-in  to the cost of the rental over the agreement term, which in this 
case was for 24 months. Unfortunately Miss Hs vehicle  was stolen before the end of the 
term and so a recalculation had to be carried out to establish its value  for settlement 
purposes. In order to calculate a value  Alphabet  first had to calculate the depreciation 
element that would apply, and this included the upfront rentals Miss H had already  paid 
them.
It seems  this is where the breakdown in communication started  between  Alphabet  and Miss 
H. The calculations originally made were deemed incorrect, an original refund offer was 
withdrawn, and Miss H was then told there  was actually  no refund due at all. When she 
Ref: DRN31192105queried this with Alphabet she experienced delays and mis-information so its not surprising 
she felt the need to complain and then ask this service to look into matters  for her.
The final submissions Alphabet have now provided give the much-needed  clarity on how the 
calculations were reached. If it had done  this when Miss H originally asked, I think  this 
matter would have  been resolved much earlier.
In essence, the calculations  Alphabet have now provided show how the upfront rentals and 
monthly rentals paid before the vehicle was stolen were re-calibrated into determining  the 
settlement cost of the vehicle. This is essentially a comparison between what  would have 
been paid over the full term of the agreement and what the cost would have been  over the 
actual term i.e. the ten months Miss H actually had the vehicle. This is known as a true-
cost settlement method.  In other  words,  the settlement  figure reached isnt just the actual 
market value of the vehicle  but also covers the costs of Alphabet providing the contract. This 
includes, but isnt limited  to, costs such as the amount Alphabet financed for the vehicle from 
inception and the cost of the loan in terms of the borrowing Alphabet had to undertake  to 
provide the vehicle. These costs would  usually be recouped throughout the term of the 
agreement and had to be recalculated following the theft and so the reduction in the term.
Alphabet provided  this service with their comparison  calculation  between the original 
contract and the revised contract. They say:
Miss H paid £5,964.80  (gross, including maintenance  and upfront costs). The net figure, 
excluding the maintenance cover, is £4,650.  Under the true cost settlement method, we 
apply the CAP value of £22,388.89 (insurance settlement amount) as the new residual value 
and recalculate  rentals funding to this from the original  capital  cost of £26,256.60. The new 
rental is calculated  as if Miss H had taken a 12-month contract, and paid 9 upfront payments 
(9+11) for 20 payments  total. The rental is calculated using discount factors and using the 
same interest rate and admin fees as the original contract, resulting in a revised  rental of 
£238.25. The new, total amount payable is £4,765.02. This means there is a shortfall of 
£115.02 in addition to the £22,388.89 for a total settlement amount of £22,503.91. This 
means that Miss H does  benefit from the 9 upfront payments as they go towards covering 
the shortfall in rentals in the revised  contract.
I have carefully reviewed the calculations, which provide the clarity both Miss H, and this 
service was seeking. In summary, the upfront rentals Miss H paid were taken into account  
when calculating the settlement quote  for Miss Hs insurance company.  Alphabet  has also 
provided this service with comparison  calculations if the upfront rentals  had not been taken 
into account to show the impact  on the settlement figure, which  would have been higher.
Miss H has confirmed the valuation of the vehicle was higher than the settlement  figure  
requested by Alphabet. Miss H accepted the insurance settlement and paid the settlement 
figure Alphabet had given directly to them. Miss H would then, quite rightly, retain any 
surplus funds. The calculations Alphabet have provided to this service have shown how they 
reached the settlement figure they gave to Miss H, and importantly the inclusion of her 
upfront rentals  in reaching that figure.  
Im now persuaded  that additional submissions  provided by Alphabet show with greater 
clarity that the upfront  rentals Miss H paid were within the settlement figure for the vehicle, 
and this would explain the lower settlement figure to the valuation  Miss Hs insurance  
company gave her. So Im satisfied Miss H isnt due any further refund.
Ref: DRN31192106However, I am in agreement that a refund of the maintenance charge is due, and an 
increased amount  for the entirely avoidable  trouble  and upset this matter has caused Miss 
H.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I uphold this complaint and I direct  Alphabet  (GB) Ltd to:
refund  Miss H £304.57  + VAT for the cost of the maintenance  charges; and
pay her £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3119210