K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  made a number of mistakes 
when setting up a third party authority on his account.
background 
Mr H brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response  from NatWest when 
they admitted  multiple mistakes were  made  whilst dealing with his account. In 2014 Mr H 
wanted to give his son third party access to his account and thought this had been actioned. 
It was established  in 2018 that this wasnt the case and Mr Hs son had been added as a 
joint account holder  in 2014. In 2019, when Mr H sought to correct  this by completing  (with 
his son) removal and third party forms, NatWest mistakenly removed Mr H from the account.  
This resulted in the cancellation of Mr Hs card and the removal  of the overdraft facility on 
the account. 
NatWest admitted these  failings and ordered  a replacement card but this didnt  reach Mr H 
until March 2019.  And in dealing with t
he complaint, when speaking with Mr H, NatWest mistakenly referred to accounts held by Mr 
Hs late mother. NatWest apologised for the inconvenience caused by the mistakes and 
when sending their final response to the complaint made a payment of £250 into Mr Hs 
account for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Our investigator found NatWest admitted the errors and had now corrected them. But he 
appreciated this had caused Mr H distress and inconvenience. However,  he thought 
NatWest has acknowledged this with the payment  of sum of £250 which  the investigator 
thought was a fair and reasonable response.
Mr H told us he was thoroughly underwhelmed with the investigators view.  He questioned 
whether or not wed appreciated or understood the significant level of inconvenience created 
by the whole situation. He said he didnt have a card to do everyday transactions  for a long 
period of time. And during the time he was locked out of his own account his only source of 
income went into it. Mr H told us he was largely reliant upon money from another  current  
account to 'get by' with everyday living transactions. He said hed had to transfer  further 
savings to this account  and use a credit card. The lack of access to his account fell at a time 
when he significant  expenditure,  there  were  two pre-planned visits some distance  away.  And 
that, during this period,  his car required a service, MOT and an insurance upgrade  all of 
which were paid for on his credit  card. He asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision 
on this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr H is less than 
convinced that the investigator has fully grasped the impact & significance  of the mistakes 
made by NatWest here. Ive looked at everything  afresh before reaching an independent 
view. But having  done so Im persuaded that NatWest have made  a reasonable offer to 
settle this complaint, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
The mistakes made  by NatWest are not in dispute. But the impact  of those mistakes on Mr H 
and the level of compensation thats fair and reasonable for NatWest  to pay is. 
Ref: DRN30363812Mr H has told us the compensation  of £250  was a token and was paid to pacify him. He 
thinks its derisible and reprehensible in equal measure and he thinks  compensation of over 
£500 would  be more appropriate. I can understand his frustration at the events and can 
appreciate why he may take that view but Ive got to look at whats  actually happened and 
the impact thats  had on Mr H.
From the background information given  by Mr H about his late mother  and the 
circumstances relating to her passing I can understand the incorrect  reference by the 
complaint hander  to her account  was insensitive and undoubtedly upsetting for Mr H. I can 
see Mr H has been inconvenienced  by having  to move money around and use another  
current accounts and credit cards. But I cant see hes suffered any financial loss  for 
example in credit card interest or out of pocket expenses. So, overall I think  the 
compensation of £250 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience that Mr H has 
suffered here. Its the sort of award  Id have made had it not already been  offered by 
NatWest. So I dont  require them to do anything further.
Given how strongly Mr H feels about what happened he may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with NatWest informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr H.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc have made a reasonable offer to 
settle this complaint by apologising for the inconvenience and paying £250 compensation to 
Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3036381