K822xcomplaint
Miss Bs complaint is about  the service provided  by Domestic & General Insurance Plc      
(D & G) in relation to a central  heating  insurance policy.  
background 
Miss B held a central heating insurance  policy with D & G, since  2002, which included an 
annual service of the boiler. 
During the annual service  in August 2018, the engineer told Miss B there  was a hole in the 
combustion chamber, which was potentially dangerous and so the boiler would have to be 
switched off. Miss B says he told her that tape had been used where  a particular type of 
screw should be. The boiler was deemed to be beyond economic repair as the part required 
was no longer available. D & G says it does not provide cover for replacement  boilers  where 
they are beyond repair but the policy provides for a cash payment of up to the policy limit,  
so it offered  Miss B £750. 
D & G also acknowledged there were some service  issues: Miss B was not called back  when  
and she was without  heating and hot water or some time. It also offered £395  compensation 
for that. 
Miss B is very unhappy about this. She says she was expecting a routine service  but was 
then left without  heating and hot water. This dangerous issue had not been spotted  by any 
previous engineers and D & G cant  tell her how long the boiler was in this state. Miss B 
didnt have her boiler replaced for some months  and says she stayed on and of with friends, 
as her home  was so cold. 
After the complaint was brought to us, D & G agreed that it should have paid Miss B £1,500 
in settlement of the claim, as its policy limit had increased from £750. It also agreed  to a 
further £100 compensation (so a total payment of £1,995). 
Miss B doesnt accept  the offer made and says D & G has still not addressed  the 
seriousness of the "shoddy unprofessional  workmanship"  and the potential  danger this 
posed to her health. Miss B says D & G should arrange to replace her boiler with a new and 
safe boiler.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she considered the offer made  by D & G to be reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Miss B initially said she accepted the adjudicators assessment but later said she still 
considers that the tape on the boiler   which rendered it unsafe  was D& Gs responsibility 
and she feels there  has been  no recognition of the failure by D & G to provide her with a safe 
service. 
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint it has been passed to me. 
Ref: DRN38681242 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D & G says none of the previous engineers have mentioned the missing screw or the tape. 
The most recent attendances, before this issue was raised in August 2018, were  in February 
2018 and one in 2017. I note that on occasion Miss B was told to get her own engineer  and 
D & G would  reimburse the cost, as it had no engineers available.  I do not know  if this was 
taken up or not. There is no evidence it was present at any of the previous services  or 
attendances. Miss B is unable to say when  the tape was applied  either.  Without any other  
evidence, it is extremely difficult for me to determine  how or when the screw went  missing  
and was replaced with tape.  
In order to be satisfied  that D & G should pay for a replacement boiler, Id need  to be 
persuaded that it damaged Miss Bs by breaking/removing the screw as a result  of acting 
negligently. If it was damaged  while  carrying out a normal  repair,  due to deterioration or wear  
and tear then (although it should have reported  it) it would not be responsible for replacing 
the boiler. Or if it was damaged/removed by anyone else it would not be responsible  either.   
Miss B is adamant that D & G is responsible for the missing screw and the tape on the boiler 
but there is no convincing evidence  to confirm that. I am not therefore able to safely make  a 
finding that it was responsible for this. There is also no evidence the screw was missing at 
any previous attendance  by D & G. 
There is simply not enough evidence for me to determine that D & G should  pay for a new 
boiler to be installed.  Overall the offer it has made in settlement (i.e. a total of £1,995) of the 
complaint is reasonable.
my final decision
I consider that Domestic  and General Insurance Plc has made an offer in full and final 
settlement that is reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. If Miss B wishes to 
accept that offer, she needs to formally accept this decision. The complaint is technically 
upheld, as the increased offer was made  after the complaint was brought to us.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3868124