K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mrs W took out with a loan in 1998.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mrs W but I dont  think  it was right for her. 
Barclays has provided us with a copy of the PPI policy wording which  sets out, amongst 
other things,  the policy exclusions and limitations.  Looking at the policy wording  its clear  that 
any claims related to pre-existing conditions arent covered under the policy terms. This is 
important as Mrs W has told us about a medical condition  she was suffering from before she 
took the policy. She said the condition was ongoing  and affected  her daily life. 
Barclays has explained its sales process and that documents were sent to Mrs W explaining 
the terms and conditions of the policy. But based  on what  Ive seen, I dont think  the 
exclusion relating  to pre-existing medical  conditions  was sufficiently brought to Mrs Ws 
attention. 
So, Ive considered whether Mrs W would have done anything differently had she known 
about the policy exclusion. Taking  everything  into account, I dont think Mrs W wouldve 
bought the PPI if shed realised she wouldnt be covered for claims resulting from her pre-
existing medical condition. In the knowledge that the policy wouldnt cover claims for the one 
thing that she was most likely to be concerned  about, I dont  think she would have 
considered the PPI a useful thing to have. So, I think Mrs W has lost out because of what
Barclays did wrong.
Barclays has questioned  the seriousness of Mrs Ws condition and whether it wouldve 
affected her decision to take out the PPI policy. Ive thought about what Barclays  has said, 
but I havent seen enough  to say that this would have been  the case.
putting things right
Mrs W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been  and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Mrs W needs to get back  the extra  she 
paid. 
Ref: DRN37104602So, Barclays  should:
Work  out and pay Mrs W the difference between what  she paid each month  on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs W paid each  month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mrs W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Barclays Bank UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3710460