K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) mis-sold him a 
packaged bank  account which it called the Select  Silver Account (SSA).
background
Mr O opened a fee free bank account with Nat West in 2009  and took out the SSA in 2013.
The SSA provided  a range of benefits  including phone insurance, European travel  
insurance, and free DVD  rentals.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Os complaint and didnt think  the SSA was mis-sold. Mr O 
disagrees so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Os complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mr O was aware the SSA was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in taking  it out.
I think its more likely than not that he was. 
In August  2013  Mr O says that Nat West told him he no longer  qualified for the student bank 
account hed had for several years which had a £500 overdraft facility.  Mr O says he was 
told by Nat West that he needed  to take out a SSA to continue  the overdraft  facility  and he 
did so thinking  this was the only way to retain it.
Whilst I dont doubt  Mr Os honest recollections, I think  after the years that have elapsed, Mr 
Os memory is mistaken. I say this because he had previously had a fee free bank account 
with an overdraft from Nat West for several years before  he took out the SSA and he 
continued to have the fee free account  for three years  alongside  the SSA. And he didnt 
request an overdraft facility until over two years after the SSA had opened.
And in my view there isnt anything about his circumstances at the time as he described 
them or from the evidence of his bank records that I think would have led him to believe that 
he couldnt get a fee free account with an overdraft  facility  even  if hed been  told that he 
couldnt by an adviser.  
I think its more likely than not that he wouldve been aware at the time of sale or shortly  
thereafter that fee free accounts with overdrafts were easily available to him from Nat West 
and other  banks and financial  businesses.  And if he had taken the SSA and then decided 
he was unhappy  with it he could have cancelled his account at any time and changed to a 
fee free one. But he didnt  and he kept the SSA for several years.
Ref: DRN32779502So I dont  think I can reasonably say that its more likely than not that the overdraft facility 
was the key driver for him in taking out the SSA as I would  need to in order to uphold  his 
complaint on this point.  
And Nat West has provided a copy of the application  form for the SSA which Mr O has 
signed.
So I think Mr O was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the SSA.
Nat West says that it didnt recommend the SSA or advise Mr O to take it, but Mr O says it 
did. Ive decided to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to Mr Os advantage and 
doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. So, Nat West needed to provide Mr O with 
sufficient information  about the SSA to make an informed choice. And in recommending the 
SSA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SSA was a reasonable fit for 
Mr Os circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the SSA was suitable for Mr O. 
I say this because  he had a mobile  phone,  he regularly went on holiday and he could use 
the other advantages such as the free DVDs. Mr O says he had alternative  arrangements for 
some of the things on offer. But it wouldve been for him to end those and use his account  
when he was ready. 
And from what Mr O has said about his personal  circumstances  at the time he took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop him taking advantage of the SSAs benefits.
So in my view, Mr O knew he had a choice about the SSA and decided  to take it. And the 
SSA was suitable  for Mr O, and there was no information that he wasnt given that would 
have put him off buying it.
So I dont  think he has lost out as result of anything Nat West may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3277950