K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called  PDL 
Finance Limited,  trading  at the time as Mr Lender. Mr B says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr B took out 4 loans from Mr Lender between  April 2014 and August 
2016. Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Bs borrowing with Mr Lender,  based  on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
for loan numbers 2 and 3 only. Mr Lender said it hadnt done anything wrong. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when  thinking  about Mr Bs 
complaint.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
B could  repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These  checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should  have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Mr Lender  was required to establish  
Ref: DRN36910032whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr B could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried  out certain  affordability and credit checks before agreeing  to lend 
to Mr B including assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness.  It says all this 
information showed that he would  be able to make the loan repayments  he was committing 
to. Ive thought  about this and also looked  at the overall pattern  of lending history  with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some  point, Mr 
Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans to Mr B. 
Ive also taken account of what Ive said above, about the length of the lending  relationship,  
and applied  it to the circumstances of loan number 1 in this case.  And I dont think its clear  
enough that what Mr Lender would have  would have seen, from its checks, suggested loan 1 
was either  unaffordable for Mr B or that the information from the checks it carried  out 
undermined the income or outgoings Mr B had himself declared. I therefore  dont uphold this 
part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 2, the situation was different. Mr B applied for 
this loan the month directly after loan 1 and I note the amount he was allowed to borrow 
increased quite  a bit. This means  the amount he needed to pay back  also increased 
significantly. In my view,  this represented a substantial part of Mr Bs overall monthly income 
and the repayment amount was so high as to cause  Mr B undue difficulties; it was therefore 
unaffordable for him and I uphold this part of his complaint.
Loan number  3 presented  additional vulnerabilities  and also shouldnt have been  lent. Mr B 
was given this loan immediately upon  settling loan 2 (late) and so Mr Lender ought  to have 
seen he was already  having difficulties managing money. I think that with the information it 
had at this stage, Mr Lender  ought  to have carried out more comprehensive financial checks  
on Mr B, to verify his income and to look at what his expenditure was like. This would have 
been more proportionate  to the situation and it would have revealed Mr B was indebted to 
other lenders and was regularly using on-line  gambling providers. More proportionate checks  
would have demonstrated that he was having  financial  trouble and relying heavily on short-
term lending. So I uphold  this part of the complaint too.
However, Im not upholding loan number 4. As our adjudicator  pointed  out, by this time Mr B 
hadnt been lent to by Mr Lender  for quite  a long time so this was a break  in the lending  
chain and I think its possible  to say he may have  been having less trouble managing  money. 
In these situations we re-assess the lending form the beginning. The lending relationship 
had started again  and the borrowing amount had reduced to a more  manageable level.  So I 
dont think theres enough  evidence to uphold the loan 4 complaint.
putting things right
Ref: DRN36910033In order to put things  right for Mr B, Mr Lender should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 2 and 3 only;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation to loans  2 
and 3.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Bs complaint and direct  PDL Finance Limited  to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Combined 
Monthly  Payment
1 02/04/2014 14/04/2014 1 £250.00 £354
2 12/05/2014 25/09/2014 1 £400.00 £517
3 25/09/2014 25/03/2015 6 £350.00 £163
4 05/08/2016 04/11/2016 3 £200.00 £108
Ref: DRN3691003