K822xComplaint
Mr B has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax,  refused to refund 
transactions, which he says he didnt make.
Background 
Mr B has a credit card account with Halifax.
Between 28 November  and 4 December 2018  his card was used for ATM cash  withdrawals, 
payments, balance inquiries and declined transactions. 
The transactions totalled £17,800 and took him over his credit limit.
On 30 November 2018, someone  made two cash deposits into the account  totalling £800. A 
further five deposits were  made on 18 December 2018, totalling £1,920.
Mr B said he didnt  make these transactions  not even the cash deposits. He said he 
couldnt have  made  the transactions because he was working on a job for a client at the 
time.
He said he last used  his card to pay for a Chinese takeaway on 28 November 2018. He was 
a bit drunk and couldnt remember whether he entered his PIN or used contactless. He said 
he mightve said his PIN aloud.
He realised his card was missing when he received a text from Halifax  on 4 December, 
telling him hed gone over his agreed credit limit.
He complained to Halifax  and asked  for a refund.  
Halifax investigated his complaint and decided not to refund him because:
most  of the transactions  were either  contactless or chip and PIN  which meant  his 
genuine card was used
Mr B couldnt explain  how someone else got hold of his PIN
there were deposits into his account   which isnt normal  fraudulent activity.
As Mr B didnt agree  with Halifaxs decision, he asked  us to investigate. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and decided to uphold  it. She thought it was more  
likely a third party made  the transactions without  Mr Bs consent because:
the transactions were out of character for the account
the PIN was entered incorrectly  twice  on 30 November  2018, in between  a number of 
successful chip and PIN transactions, and it was unlikely Mr B would suddenly forget 
his PIN on two occasions
the complex nature and pattern of transactions indicated a sophisticated fraud
there were a number  of declined transactions, which Halifax couldnt explain
the deposits were  also out of character as Mr B only paid in £80 via a direct  debit 
order from another account
Mr B has been consistent in his account of what happened.
Our investigator recommended that Halifax  
Ref: DRN39699122refund  all disputed  transactions from 28 November 2018
put the account back into the position it was in, removing any negative markers  that 
may have been reported to credit reference  agencies.
refund  any charges  applied to the credit card because of the account  being over limit.
pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Halifax accepted  our investigators  recommendations.
Mr B disagreed with the recommendations. He wants  Halifax to clear  the outstanding  
balance on the credit card account  and on all the other accounts with Halifax.  And he thinks  
£150 doesnt reflect the stress and worry hes experienced.
Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
evidence and the relevant  regulations. Mr B and Halifax have read the investigators  view.  
Halifax has accepted  it. I dont think there is any reason for me to repeat the details here.  
However, Ive reviewed the evidence and, having  done  so, Ive reached the same  overall  
conclusions as those  reached by our investigator and for much the same reasons. Based on 
the evidence,  I dont think Mr B authorised the disputed transactions. On balance, I think  
they were carried out by a third party without his consent. And it follows  that Halifax  should 
refund the disputed  transactions  and restore the account to the position it was in before the 
transactions were  made.
The only issue for me now is whether I should ask Halifax to pay more.
The relevant  regulations  state that Halifax should  refund any unauthorised transactions. In 
addition, the rules say I can ask Halifax to compensate Mr B for any financial loss its 
caused. But as a general principle,  I must  restore Mr B to the position he was in before the 
unauthorised transactions were made. And I must award what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr Bs direct  financial losses  are the unauthorised transactions, the interest, which  accrued 
on those transactions,  if any, and the charges,  which were added  to his account  when  he 
exceeded his credit limit. 
I cant ask Halifax to clear the balance  on this credit card account, not if it includes genuine 
transactions. Nor can I ask it to clear  the balances on other accounts, which  are unrelated  to 
this claim and are genuine  transactions. Theres no basis  for me to ask Halifax  to do this and 
it would  be unfair and unreasonable to do so.
Mr B also says that £150 for his distress and inconvenience is too low. He says the debt on 
his credit card account affected his credit  score by making it worse; his poor credit score  
damaged his business; put him in financial stress  and stopped  him from carrying  out further  
Ref: DRN39699123plans for his business. He says the claim also had a significant emotional and mental impact 
on him, causing him to seek help from a doctor.
Ive no reason to doubt that this has been  a very unpleasant and stressful  experience  for 
Mr B. The value of the transactions was high and he wouldve  worried  about the debt. But, 
the appropriate remedy is asking Halifax to refund the transactions and restore the account 
to the position it was in.
And Im afraid he hasnt provided any evidence of the impact of his credit score  on his 
business or health, such as a loan refusal  or GP letter.  It is up to Mr B to provide  evidence in 
support of his claim. In these circumstances, I think £150 is a fair and reasonable sum for a 
complaint thats  lasted  14 months.
I am sorry  for Mr Bs situation and I know this will be disappointing  news  for him but I hope  
the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  Mr Bs complaint and I am asking Bank of Scotland  
plc to take the following  steps to resolve this complaint:
refund  all unauthorised transactions from 28 November 2018 to 4 December 2018
refund  the interest, if any, which  accrued to the unauthorised transactions
refund  other charges,  if any, which were added as a result of the account exceeding 
the credit  limit
restore the account to the position it was in before the unauthorised  transactions 
occurred
remove any negative entries which were recorded on Mr Bs credit files as a result of 
the unauthorised  transactions
pay Mr B £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3969912