K820x#14Complaint
Ms S complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly blocked and closed her accounts. She says 
this caused significant distress  and inconvenience.  She wants Lloyds to provide an 
explanation for its actions.  And pay compensation for the trouble and upset shes  suffered.
Background
Ms S had a current and savings account with Lloyds.
In January 2019, Lloyds blocked both accounts. This meant Ms S couldnt access any 
money in the accounts. And no payments could  be made  from the account. Lloyds removed 
the blocks from the accounts on 14 February 2019.
On 27 February 2019, Lloyds wrote to Ms S to let her know it had decided to close her 
accounts. And it gave  her 65 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements.
Ms S says she discovered her accounts  were blocked whilst she was abroad  when  she tried 
to access her account. She says she contacted Lloyds  on several occasions to find out why 
she couldnt access her accounts. But Lloyds wouldnt give her a proper  explanation  for its 
actions. Ms S says as a result of the blocks she was left without access to any money for 
several weeks and couldnt  pay her bills. She says her mortgage fell into arrears and she 
suffered a great  deal of stress and anxiety. And her credit history has been adversely 
affected. 
Ms S complained to Lloyds and said it had breached  the terms and conditions  of its contract.  
She said Lloyds hadnt  explained the reasons why it blocked and then closed her accounts. 
And it had treated her unfairly  by not giving  her an opportunity to provide  any information 
about what she believed  led to the bank  blocking  her accounts.
Lloyds said its not obliged to enter into any discussion with Ms S to explain its decision  to 
block and then close her accounts. And says it acted in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of Ms Ss accounts. Unhappy with this response Ms S brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator explained Lloyds werent required to provide their reasons for the block  and 
closure of her accounts. She was satisfied Lloyds had acted fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the accounts.  And that Lloyds had followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations when  it blocked and reviewed  the accounts. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms S disagreed. Shes still upset  that Lloyds blocked and closed her accounts without 
explanation. She says this caused him a great deal of anxiety and inconvenience. She wants  
Lloyds to provide  a full explanation,  apologise and pay her compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37101622Ill start by setting out some context for the block of Ms Ss accounts. Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must also 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships 
Lloyds has said that Ms Ss accounts were  blocked  to meet  these legal requirements.
Its clear from what Ms S has told us and the bank  that she feels  very strongly  about  her 
complaint. I understand Ms S is upset that Lloyds blocked and closed her accounts. And that 
this has caused  her inconvenience. 
Ms S says she hasnt  done anything which would cause Lloyds to block  her accounts. And 
she has been the victim of a malicious  allegation. That may well be the case. But as Ive 
already explained businesses have  a legal obligation to comply with various laws and 
regulations. The terms and conditions that apply to Ms Ss accounts  also outline the 
circumstances in which Lloyds can block an account. And having considered those terms 
carefully, and the circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with them. So, 
I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong  when it blocked Ms Ss accounts.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Lloyds and Ms S had to comply with  
say that it could close the account by giving her 60 days notice. Lloyds has done  this. So, 
its entitled to close  the accounts as it seems its already done.
I know Ms S is frustrated  that she hasnt been given  a proper explanation why her accounts 
were blocked and then closed. But under the terms and conditions Lloyds doesnt have to 
give a reason. So, I cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong by not giving Ms S this 
information  as much as shed like to know.
Ms S says Lloyds has breached its contract with her. But as Ive explained Lloyds is entitled 
to block and close the accounts.  In other  words,  there has been no breach of contract 
because Lloyds has acted  in accordance with the account terms and conditions.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Ms S feels about whats  happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and upsetting time.  But overall,  based on the evidence  I have, I cant say 
Lloyds have acted  unreasonably and treated  Ms S unfairly when it blocked  and closed her 
accounts. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything.
In conclusion, I know my decision will come as a great frustration and disappointment  to 
Ms S. Ms S is entitled to reject my decision. If she does reject  it then it is not binding  on her 
or Lloyds.  And it is then open to her to raise these  issues in any legal  proceedings should  
she choose to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN37101623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3710162