K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way he was treated by National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) 
in one of their branches. 
background
Mr S visited  a NatWest branch in May 2019 to check whether a refund had been  paid into 
his account. As he was at a cash desk,  he was told he couldnt ask about the refund. 
Because of this he tried to make  a small payment of five pence into his account so he could 
be served, however  he was told to use the coin machine. 
Mr S had previously witnessed another customer being served at the cash  desk for a non-
cash related query, leading him to feel discriminated against. Because  of this he started  to 
record his interaction  with staff members  on his phone. A manager spoke with Mr S and took 
him into a room. The branch manager  apologised for the behaviour of the first staff member, 
and explained  how Mr S could pay in his five pence. Mr S was still recording at the point, so 
was asked to stay in the room. The police were called and explained that due to what  had 
happened, Mr S would be banned  from that specific  branch. 
Due to the time spent  in the branch, Mr S received  a parking fine and would like NatWest to 
pay for this, along with compensation  for being discriminated against.
NatWest apologised  for the behaviour  of the first member of staff.  But they explained they 
had followed  the right procedures when asking  Mr S to stop recording and delete the video 
he had taken, as it was not tolerated on the branch premises for security  reasons. Due to 
this, Mr S was banned from the branch and this was explained to him by the police. 
NatWest also apologised  for Mr S feeling discriminated against, but said they couldnt  find 
any evidence of this happening as the members of staff had said they would assist  Mr S, just 
not at the cash  desk. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong. She explained 
that while she could  understand  it wouldnt have been a nice situation to be in, Mr S was 
asked to stop filming  on his phone and refused, which resulted in the bank manager calling 
the police. Our investigator sent NatWest  a copy of the parking ticket  and asked if theyd 
consider reimbursing the cost, however NatWest refused as the fine was given  because  Mr 
S had been  parked in a restricted  area.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  into everything fully, I agree that NatWest have dealt with Mr S correctly.  Ill 
explain why. 
Mr S went  into the branch  as he wanted to find out whether  a refund had been processed. 
He waited in line at the cash desk but didnt want to pay any money in. When the staff 
member told Mr S she couldnt answer his query as he was at the wrong  desk, he asked  to 
pay five pence  into his account.  I agree at this stage the staff member could have been more  
Ref: DRN35670482cooperative, but can see NatWest have apologised for this and have given feedback  to the 
staff member. 
Due to the actions of the staff member, Mr S decided to record  their interactions but was 
asked to stop. He refused to do so and because of this I dont think it was unreasonable for 
the branch manager to take him into a room.  Again, Mr S continued to record  his 
conversation, leading the manager to leave the room. The police were called in to speak with 
Mr S. Again, I dont  find these actions unreasonable given NatWests  policy  not to allow 
filming in branches for security reasons.  
Mr S has said he felt discriminated against as the customer in front of him was served at the 
cash desk for a non cash related query.  I agree  all customers should  be treated the same, 
and I can see why Mr S would have been unhappy. But he was at the wrong desk, and 
NatWest have apologised for the service given by the first member  of staff. I can see he was 
asked to take a seat so the staff member could help him, but he refused.  
Because of this, I cant agree that Mr S was discriminated against as he was given the 
correct information  and was offered assistance. 
Mr S has said NatWest  refused to pay in his five pence. I cant agree with this as from the 
recordings I can hear Mr S was told how he could make this deposit by the branch manager. 
He was advised he could use the coin machine,  or the cash  desk.  In terms of Mr S saying he 
was assaulted and held against his will, I have nothing  to show  me that happened.  I can 
hear that the door is closed  in the recording, however nothing  to suggest that Mr S wasnt 
able to open it. 
Overall, while  I can understand  Mr Ss frustrations with the first member of staff, I think he 
was dealt with correctly after that point.  Branches  have CCTV to record what  goes on, they 
dont allow  recording of their staff members for security and data protection purposes. I know 
Mr S may not have recorded any computer screens, but I can understand why the staff in the 
branch wouldnt  have wanted  to be recorded  by Mr S. 
Regarding the parking fine, NatWest have said theyre not willing to reimburse the cost of the 
ticket as it shows Mr S was parked in a restricted  area,  and not because his parking time 
was exceeded.  Having looked  at the fine myself, I agree with NatWest and so wont be 
asking them to cover  the cost. 
Overall, while  I agree  the customer service given by the first member  of staff could have 
been better,  I feel NatWest have acted correctly  following Mr Ss actions in the branch. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Ref: DRN35670483Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3567048