K821x#15complaint
Mrs D has complained about the way Scottish Equitable  Plc dealt  with her claim for death  
benefits from her late husbands pension policy.
 
background
In this case Scottish Equitable Plc was trading as Aegon and so Ill use that name here.
Mr D held a pension plan with Aegon. He had nominated Mrs D as the beneficiary in the 
event of his death before  retirement.  Mr D died suddenly  in the summer of 2016.  Aegon  
were informed of his death on 1 September 2016 and began to deal with the claim.
Ultimately, Aegon made payment out of the benefits  in October 2017 after it was satisfied 
that it should make payment to Mrs D.
Mrs D says that there was unnecessary delay and that payment should have been made 
much sooner, by January  2017. The delay also caused her distress at a very difficult  time.
Aegon accepted that payment should have been  made more quickly,  by April 2017,  but 
pointed out that Mrs D received a higher amount when the payment was actually made. It 
also offered to pay £2,000 for any distress  and inconvenience it had caused.
Mrs D didnt agree and made a complaint to this service. Our investigator decided  that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She said that Aegon could  have  made more  thorough  and 
timely enquiries in order to determine if there were other potential dependents  who may 
have had a claim on the pension  funds.  She said that the payment could have been made 
sooner, by 17 January. The investigator felt that Mrs D had lost out on the use of the funds 
and so interest should be added at 8 per cent simple.
The investigator also felt that an award  for trouble and upset should be made of £3,500. She 
explained that the delays  and mishandling must  have added to Mrs Ds concerns at what 
was already a very distressing time.  Mrs D wasnt made aware of the full value of the 
pension funds and had she known this would have  removed  a lot of her worries.
Aegon didnt agree  and asked for a decision  from an ombudsman.  Aegon said,  in summary:
It had responsibility for deciding who will benefit  from the pension  funds in accordance 
with the scheme rules.
It has to carry out a full and robust  investigation into the personal  circumstances  of 
the deceased. 
Its review must be independent and not unduly hurried.
It had only discovered the existence of a third party with a possible interest in the 
pension funds  in October  2016 after making  its own enquiries on-line.
It had chased for response periodically but Mrs Ds solicitor had not replied  for 
many months.
It wasnt its policy to disclose the pension values  at the outset.
It said the £2,000  it had offered for distress  was fair.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN38093172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I uphold this complaint.
Aegon has accepted that there were delays in its processes. But I think  that it could have 
processed this claim more quickly than it has accepted.  I think  the claim could and should  
have been processed by January 2017.
Aegon says that it must act independently and robustly. It accepts that it knew of the 
existence of a third party  with a potentially competing claim to Mrs D in October  2016.  But it 
then made  enquiries  of Mrs Ds solicitor  for more  information and didnt make any other  
enquiry at the time.  I dont  think  that is consistent  with acting robustly or independently. It 
could have contacted the coroner at that point or made other independent  investigations. It 
was its later contact with the coroner which had a positive result  and this could have 
happened much  sooner  than it did.
Although its true that Mrs Ds solicitors didnt respond promptly to the enquiries that were 
made of it, that didnt  remove Aegons  duty to investigate thoroughly. Aegon sent reminders  
but there were long gaps. I dont think it was acting  robustly when it chose to wait three 
months for responses,  particularly when it wasnt taking  any other investigative steps. And 
as Ive said, Im satisfied that it could easily (and should) have made  other enquiries.
Im satisfied that with proper investigation  Aegon could have identified the third party with a 
potential interest, and then made contact with them by October  or November 2016. Once 
that contact was actually made, via the coroner, the payment  was processed very quickly,  
within a matter of weeks.  So I think this could have been finalised by January 2017 as the 
investigator has said.
This was clearly a very distressing time for Mrs D. The delay in processing  this claim will no 
doubt have added to and aggravated the stress she suffered at a time of bereavement  and 
also caused frustration.  Mrs D says that she was already  in a fragile state which  I accept. 
Mrs D and her daughter were financially dependent on Mr D and had the claim been 
processed more quickly  it would have alleviated any financial difficulties they were facing. 
Im satisfied that the delays will have  had a severe  impact on Mrs D over a period of nine 
months or so. So I think an award  of £3,500 is fair in these particular circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Scottish Equitable  Plc (Aegon) must pay redress  as follows:
(1)Calculate the value  that would have  been  paid to Mrs D on 17 January 2017.  To this 
sum interest should be added  at 8 per cent simple up to the date of actual payment, 
25 October 2017.
(2)If the sum in (1) is more than the amount of the actual payment to Mrs D, the 
difference is the loss.
Ref: DRN38093173(3)The loss must  be paid to Mrs D along with interest at 8 per cent simple from the date 
of actual payment  (25 October  2017) up to the date of settlement.
(4)It must  also pay Mrs D £3,500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809317