K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains Amigo Loans  Ltd discussed  his loan account with an unauthorised third 
party, which in turn caused  his mental  wellbeing to suffer.  
background 
Mr D took out a guarantor loan with Amigo and his brother stands as the guarantor.  
Amigo took a phone call from a third party claiming to be Mr D in September 2018.  Amigo 
asked three  questions about  Mr Ds personal details as part of its checks  to confirm  the 
callers identity  it asked for his name, address  and date of birth, which the third party 
answered correctly. The caller went on to ask questions  about the loan account including
when the loan started and how well he had been  meeting his repayments.  Amigo shared 
this information  with the caller.
Mr D contacted Amigo the next day, unhappy that it had discussed  his account with a female 
family member and without his authority.  He complains that his data protection  rights  have 
been breached.  He also complains Amigo failed to act and he had to ask for an additional 
password to be added to the account.
Mr D says Amigo was already aware  of the issues he faces with his mental health and this 
made matters worse. He said he had to ask his GP for stronger medication because  of 
increased anxiety. Mr D says that armed with the information Amigo  shared, the 
unauthorised caller together with his guarantor have pressured him to repay  the loan.
 
Amigo accepted  its agent could have  asked more questions before continuing the
conversation and so it offered £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  Amigo 
explained that the caller did have Mr Ds personal information, was aware  some  payments 
had been missed and so continued with the call as normal.
Still unhappy, Mr D brought his complaint to us to consider. Our investigator thought Amigo 
should have done more  to keep Mr Ds account information secure and given the impact  this 
had on his mental wellbeing, she recommended Amigo  increased its offer by £275 to £300.
Amigo accepts our investigators recommendation. Mr D disagrees and has asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. He thinks Amigo  should write-off his loan 
because he was gambling and suffered with mental  health issues  when he took it out.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as our investigator on this case,  and for broadly the same reasons.
Before I explain why, I will deal with Mr Ds submission that Amigo should write-off  his loan 
because he was gambling and suffered with mental  health issues  when he took it out. Ive 
not considered  these  points further because they concern events leading up to Mr D taking 
out the loan. The complaint he referred to us concerns the later management of his account 
 he hasnt complained he shouldnt have  been  given the loan. If this is a complaint he 
wishes to make, he is free to do so and should direct it to Amigo in the first instance. If still 
Ref: DRN35012862unhappy, he can refer to us again. So, I wont make any finding on events leading up to Mr D 
taking out the loan as part of this decision. 
Amigo accepted  our investigators  assessment  and her recommendation to increase its offer 
by £275 to £300. So, essentially, I am left to consider whether Amigo needs to do more to 
resolve this complaint.
I can understand why Mr D feels so strongly about  Amigo discussing his account  with an 
unauthorised third party. Ive taken  note of Amigos comments  that the third party was a 
family member and had existing knowledge of Mr Ds financial position. But this doesnt 
lessen Amigos duty to keep his personal information secure. I also note that a password  
was later added  to the account at Mr Ds request and a further attempt  by the third party  to 
get information was blocked.  
Mr D says both his guarantor and the third party had pressured him to repay the loan after 
the third party  got the information  from Amigo. Although  Ive not seen  Mr Ds brother made 
his own enquiries  as guarantor, I cant ignore that he was entitled  to know  the information 
shared. I find it likely Amigo would have told Mr Ds brother about the status of the account, 
given Mr Ds payment was overdue. But I am persuaded Amigo  sharing information with an 
unauthorised family member would have made matters  worse for Mr D.
I understand Mr D wishes, as a way of resolving things, that Amigo write-off the loan. But Im 
mindful that whether or not information  was disclosed about Mr Ds account, the loan amount 
would still be outstanding. So in the circumstances I dont think this would be a fair 
resolution. 
With all the above  in mind, I think £300  is fair  to reflect the level the distress and increased  
anxiety Amigo caused Mr D.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. Amigo  Loans Ltd 
must pay £300 to Mr D to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that he was 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501286