K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  that Coventry  Building  Society (Coventry)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
In 2004, Mr L bought  a regular premium PPI policy alongside  his mortgage with Coventry.  The 
policy protected his repayments if he couldnt  work because of disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr L didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Coventry doesnt have  all the paperwork  that was completed at the time of this sale. This is 
understandable given  how long ago the sale took place. But Coventrys provided a copy  of Mr Ls 
signed mortgage application  form. It included  a section on PPI which  asked him to tick one of a 
number of options, which included one to say he didnt want  PPI. The box to ask for more  
information about PPI and a quote  was ticked.
Coventrys also provided a sample  of the PPI application form and direct debit mandate  which it 
says would need to have  been completed  and signed before  the policy could be set up. 
Although I havent  seen  a copy of the actual completed forms, I think it unlikely Mr L would have 
been charged monthly premiums for the PPI unless  these  sample  forms (or ones that were similar) 
had been filled out. 
Overall, I think it likely Mr L knew the PPI was optional and actively  chose to buy it. I can 
understand why he might  not remember that now. And Ive no evidence  to show he was put under 
undue pressure to agree to the PPI as he suggests.
If Coventry recommended  the PPI policy to Mr L, it needed to check that its advice to buy the PPI 
was right for him. I cant be sure that Coventry did this. But from what  I know of Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for him anyway. I say this because, although I 
dont have a copy  of the policy terms from 2004,  experience of what  the policy  terms are likely to 
have been lead me to believe:
Mr L would have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
Ref: DRN35029652Mr L says he was only entitled to statutory  sick pay but the PPI protected  his mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim. It covered  him for unemployment too. And he didnt 
have any other means of making  his repayments if he wasnt  working.  So, I think  he would 
have valued the protection the PPI provided.
Ive no reason  to think the PPI premium  was unaffordable for him. And, this being a monthly 
premium policy, he could  have cancelled it at no extra  cost if it no longer met his needs.
Coventry also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr L 
could make an informed  choice about whether he wanted to buy PPI. I cant  say for certain 
what he was told or that Coventry told him everything it should  have. But, as Ive explained, 
it looks like he wanted this type of cover  and Im satisfied hed have seen  it as useful and 
affordable. So I dont think better information  would have put him off buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Coventry had to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr L. But Coventry will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
Coventry got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Coventry didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Coventrys basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
What the business needs  to do
Coventry has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already  done so. Coventry should also pay back  to Mr L any extra  
interest he paid because of that.
Coventry should pay back to Mr L the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Coventry should also pay Mr L 8%* simple 
interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN35029653My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  doesnt  have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 12 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3502965