K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Peter R.T Holden & Partners LLP (Holden  and Partners)  didnt make 
her fully aware that the proceeds of a pension sharing order  (PSO) contained fully 
crystallised funds. This meant she wouldnt be entitled to a pension commencement lump  
sum (PCLS). She says this has caused her significant losses because much  of her financial 
planning has been based on receiving  a tax free lump sum and shes now been put into a 
difficult financial position.
background 
Mrs B contacted Holden and Partners as she wanted financial advice in relation to a pension
credit she was due to receive from a pension sharing order.  Following  an initial  meeting,  
Holden and Partners  emailed Mrs B on 9 June 2015  to summarise the points discussed and 
what it could do for her, in particular it made the following  statement:
We will also establish  what proportion of the pension has already been  crystallised  (if
any).
Holden and Partners  recommended the transfer  of the pension credit  to a new pension 
provider. In doing so, it contacted the existing provider in July 2015 to obtain  further  
information in relation  to the sharing order, however the provider was unable to assist  for 
security reasons as the pension policy was in Mrs Bs ex-husbands name.
The benefits  from the pension sharing order were successfully transferred to the new 
provider on 7 September 2015. The existing provider issued correspondence to the new 
provider which confirmed  that there  would  be not be any PCLS entitlement  from the benefits.
Subsequently, Mrs Bs pension was invested in line with Holden  and Partners 
recommendations following a discussion around  her circumstances.
In March 2018, Mrs B attempted to withdraw  her PCLS entitlement,  however she was told 
that wasnt possible given  that the pension sharing order  did not contain any such  
entitlement.
Around May 2018 Mrs B complained to Holden and Partners about why it had not made her 
aware at the time of the transfer that she was not entitled to a PCLS  from the pension  
sharing order. She said she had taken out a mortgage and incurred various other expenses 
based on being able to take a PCLS and pay off the mortgage when she reached the age of 
55. She said this put her in a difficult financial position.
In response to Mrs Bs complaint, Holden and Partners  accepted that it had made  an error 
by not identifying that there was no PCLS entitlement. However, it also believed that the 
pension providers were  at fault. It made  various offers to Mrs B in order to resolve the 
complaint but she rejected them and they were subsequently withdrawn. Unhappy  with the 
outcome Mrs B brought her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He didnt 
think any of the pension providers were at fault and discussed this with Holden and Partners  
who agreed to reinstate  the offer they had previously made to Mrs B. The offer was that it 
had agreed to pay the tax liability which would become due if Mrs B was to withdraw  the 
Ref: DRN37369432amount she had initially intended to as a tax free amount. The award that was agreed was in 
the region of £33,000. 
Taking into account that if Holden and Partners had not made an error, then Mrs B would  
have had to pay this tax herself, the adjudicator felt the award  was fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances.
Mrs B didnt agree. She felt that the award did not take into account the time and costs 
Holden and Partners  error had taken up. Due to the error, she felt she was unable to move 
forward with her initial plans for a house  move and the delays meant that the sale price of 
her home had fallen.  She stated that it had caused  her a great deal of stress preventing her 
from working and also led to her depleting her savings. 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion of the complaint.  In  his view,  the 
award sufficiently compensated Mrs B for the time and costs  and he did not believe any 
additional award was warranted. But Mrs B said that her health was suffering as a result of 
this matter and she had to continually draw  money from her savings to pay for everyday 
expenses  which included increased mortgage payments. 
She said shed also had to make  further withdrawals from the pension to cover  these 
expenses which meant she wasnt going to get the full value of Holden and Partners offer to 
pay the PCLS she thought she was due. She asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman and so its been passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the transfer information statement that was sent to the new provider on 
7 September 2015, which confirmed that no PCLS  was available. And theres  no evidence 
that Holden and Partners  made Mrs B aware  of this fact despite agreeing to establish what 
proportion of the pension has already been crystallised shortly  after it first met her. And I 
note that Holden  and Partners met Mrs B a number of times over the next few years  to 
review her plan, and in 2017 noted  her objective remained to repay your mortgage when 
you are 55 from your pension tax free lump sum.
So I think its clear that Holden and Partners hadnt established the level of PCLS  that was 
due from the plan or confirmed this to Mrs B. Therefore I can see why Mrs B remained of the 
view that she was entitled to the standard 25% PCLS.
However, Holden and Partners hasnt  disputed it failed  in its duty to advise Mrs B about the 
PCLS and did offer to compensate her for the loss shes  says she suffered. And Mrs Bs 
complaint is now about that offer and whether its fair and reasonable considering the 
financial impact this matter has had on her.
So, what  Im considering here is whether  Holden and Partners initial  offer  which it has 
withdrawn but was subsequently considered  to be reasonable  by the adjudicator,  is fair. 
And I can see that following Mrs Bs complaint  when it accepted  some  responsibility for the 
lack of information about the PCLS  Holden and Partners made  a variety of offers to Mrs B 
Ref: DRN37369433to try to resolve matters. Its first suggestion was for Mrs B to take withdrawals  from the 
pension to meet her mortgage repayments, and Holden and Partners would meet  the tax 
liabilities on the withdrawals. This suggestion was to continue for some months until Mrs Bs 
complaints to the other parties  involved  at Holden and Partners request  established who 
was to blame for the error. 
The next offer suggested Mrs B could take a larger withdrawal, and Holden and Partners  
would meet any tax liability from the withdrawal. A further offer  in October  2018   offered 
to meet  the entire tax liability  of a withdrawal that would pay off the outstanding mortgage.  
That offer was conditional on Mrs B pursuing a complaint against  her lawyer and offsetting 
any compensation she might receive from a successful complaint against  the payment made 
by Holden and Partners.
Mrs B didnt accept the offer of a full withdrawal because she didnt think  it put her back  in 
the same  position  as she ought to be  but she did take a partial  withdrawal to help towards 
paying her higher mortgage repayments and household bills. 
But I think Holden and Partners  offer did put Mrs B as close as possible to the position that 
she wanted to be in at that point as it offered to pay the tax liability  on an amount that 
needed to be withdrawn to repay her mortgage. In the end  following further  negotiation 
with this service  the same offer is now available to Mrs B. 
I know Holden and Partners original offer had conditions attached  about  making  complaints  
to the other providers  and the solicitor  involved. But these were  designed  to test if those 
other parties  had caused any of the financial loss as well, in which case  I think  Holden and 
Partners would  have been acting  correctly in asking for any compensation to be offset 
against what it had paid. So, as Ive said, I think it was a fair and a reasonable offer because 
it put Mrs B as close as possible to the position she would  now be in if Holden and Partners 
hadnt made an error.
However, while the offer remained outstanding Mrs Bs financial situation has worsened.  
Shes explained that because she hasnt been  able to pay off her mortgage, the monthly  
repayments on her new loan are higher and shes finding it hard to meet  them. As a result  
shes had to use up some  of her savings  which means she cant purchase a car that she 
needs. And she says her house has fallen in value in the last year or so which means shes 
lost equity that she was planning on using when she bought another  property  with her new 
partner.
And I have  sympathy  for the position  Mrs B finds  herself  in because of this unfortunate 
mis-communication. Its clear it wasnt caused by her as she just asked to be made aware  of 
the position regarding the PCLS  because  as Ive seen  shed planned her finances  
around using the PCLS  early in 2018,  three years after she took out the pension. 
So Ive gone  on to consider the impact  this has had on Mrs B and whether that impact 
warrants a further  payment of compensation  beyond Holden and Partners  original offer. 
And to do that Ive considered the financial difficulties Mrs B says shed suffered.
Mrs B has said that the valuation of her property is lower now than when she wanted  to pay 
off the mortgage.  Within  the three years that Mrs B had followed her financial plan house  
prices would have  most  likely fluctuated  possibly for the better. So it wouldnt be fair for me 
to say its Holden and Partners fault if the value  of her property has changed during the time 
Mrs B has been making her complaint. I can understand that shed be frustrated if her 
property has fallen  in value but I dont  think I can safely  say thats Holden and Partners  fault. 
Ref: DRN37369434In any case theres no evidence of any actual loss because  Mrs B is basing  her claim on two 
separate valuations.  But thats no more than an indication of what  the house  might sell for 
now or may have sold for a year ago. So I dont think theres any evidence  of an actual loss 
that been incurred because of the house  valuations.
Mrs B has also complained about  the losses shes suffered from having to use her savings 
and more of her income because of the rise in her monthly mortgage repayments. More  
recently shes said that her savings  are nearly  exhausted  and shes  had to draw  further  
funds from her pension just to cover  everyday  expenses.
And I can see how this may have  impacted  her situation within the last year, theres  no doubt 
shes been affected by not receiving any PCLS  which has caused  her to have to readjust 
her financial  plan. However, Ive taken  into account here that Mrs B was never  in a position 
to obtain a PCLS. It didnt exist within the plan because  her ex-husbands pension had 
already been crystallised, so no PCLS was ever available.  Mrs B hasnt actually lost the 
PCLS but shes been impacted by the raised expectation of what she could do  in terms of 
a financial plan  if she had received the PCLS.  
Ive asked Mrs B what she would have done if shed been aware at the time of the advice 
that no PCLS was available, and Ive carefully  considered her comments. She said she 
wasnt  sure but has given a clear and detailed picture of how some  things would have  been  
different  such as not making the individual purchases to improve  her home and not going 
to Australia. And her response is consistent with what I would expect  someone  to say if they 
werent going to receive the amount of money theyd hoped for.
But she also said I am not sure whether I would have been able to secure  a mortgage offer 
if I had not been  able to prove  to the mortgage lender that I would be able to pay my 
mortgage off completely  after approximately 2 and a half years.
I think thats a significant  statement and I can understand thats a situation  which, in all 
likelihood, would have  happened at that time.  Mrs B made it clear  that she was only given a 
loan because she was able to demonstrate she would  be able to pay it off using the PCLS,  
so I think its most likely that  if she didnt  have a PCLS  available,  she wouldnt have been  
given a mortgage or at least would have been  offered a much smaller  loan.
And in that context  I dont think Mrs B would have  required  the same  level of PCLS,  if any, 
as she now needs   which means  that she wouldnt have received  the amount of tax free 
compensation Holden and Partners  is now offering. 
So I think, whilst Mrs B has undoubtedly suffered some inconvenience  following Holden and 
Partners error, the offer that its made, to compensate for a perceived loss of PCLS is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I dont think theres a case for any additional 
award to cover the financial issues that Mrs B has subsequently suffered.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Peter  R.T Holden & Partners LLP, in so much  as I think it 
should pay any tax liability arising from a pension  withdrawal  of the size required to pay off 
the outstanding mortgage in line with the offer its made. This amount can be reduced by the 
tax liability its already met from the earlier withdrawals. 
Ref: DRN37369435Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3736943