K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  will not refund some disputed  
transactions.
background
In January 2019 Mr P complained to Halifax about  some disputed transactions  on his 
account.  Some were made  to an online trading  platform  (F) and others  were  for purchases 
made via a games console.  Mr P said he had not made these.   He had previously told 
Halifax he didnt have  a games console in his home  now he said he had owned one but 
not since 2017.
Halifax considered  a similar complaint which Mr P had made  in September  2018.  On  that 
occasion, it had refunded  the disputed transactions, cancelled Mr Ps card and replaced it 
with a new one.  It said it had educated  Mr P in how to keep his details secure.
In February 2019,  Mr P then contacted Halifax again  to say his six-year-old  son had been 
making the transactions on his account without Mr Ps consent.  He said his two young 
children had been doing this since 2016  and he had lost a considerable amount  of money as 
a result.
Mr P thought  Halifax should refund  the money  as the transactions  had been made without 
his consent.
In its final response letters  dated January, April and May 2019, Halifax  rejected Mr Ps 
complaint about  the disputed transactions and the level of service  he had received.  It said it 
was satisfied Mr P had authorised the transactions   and it didnt think it had failed in its 
customer service.
Mr P then came this service.   He told us he had suffered  from some  illness  and that Halifax  
had treated him unfairly.   He had also suffered financially.
Our investigator didnt  think she could  ask Halifax to do anymore and explained this to Mr P.  
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking Halifax to refund this money  to Mr P.
For these transactions  to be deemed  to be authorised, Halifax needs  to show  they were  
authenticated as well as Mr P consenting to them being made.
Im satisfied the evidence  from Halifax shows authentication   and by that, I mean  Mr Ps 
card details were entered in order for the payments to be made.   The issue  of whether Mr P 
consented to the transactions  is slightly more  difficult and I arrive at my decision based on 
the evidence I have seen and heard.  I have  to be satisfied  on the basis of what I think  is 
more likely than not and I remind myself that its not for Mr P to show he didnt  consent   its 
for Halifax to show that he did.
Ref: DRN35343372I think the investigator has explained in some detail already  as to why she doesnt think 
Halifax should refund  this money  and I dont think there is much  more I can helpfully  add.
Mr P has not been a credible witness.  He has been inconsistent  with what he told Halifax.  
He had also had a previous card cancelled and replaced and I dont think  its likely that his 
two, very young children, could have  accessed his card in the way he suggests in order to 
make these transactions.  
I think Mr P entered his card details into the games  console  perhaps to allow  his children 
to purchase some games  - but by doing so, his children had his apparent  authority to make 
the purchases which they then went on to make.
In relation to the payments to F, this service contacted the company to find out how these 
payments could have  been possible.   We were  told Mr P had set up an account  with them  
and had made a payment from his debit  card into the account held with F which then allowed  
him to trade online.  In his response  to the investigators view, Mr P does not address this 
specific point so its not clear on what basis he maintains these transactions  were  not 
authorised.  F told us Mr Ps account  was verified  with identity documents   so I am 
satisfied, on balance, that Mr P made these transactions himself.
Halifax said it issued monthly  statements to Mr P.  It cant show they were delivered but Mr 
Ps evidence  is that they were not.  He says this is why he did not raise  the alarm  until 
January 2019.
I cant be sure that these statements were received by Mr P  but on balance  I think they 
were.  I think  he didnt  complain about  the transactions because he knew  about them and 
had authorised them.
In the circumstances, I wont be asking Halifax to refund them.
Im sorry  Mr P says this issue caused him to suffer with his health and financially.  If he is 
struggling to make payments towards  the debt, Halifax has a responsibility to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in coming to an arrangement.  I would  urge Mr P to make  
contact with the relevant team at Halifax to discuss his repayments  or for Halifax to contact 
Mr P and signpost him accordingly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3534337