K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background 
This complaint relates to 18 instalment loans provided to Mr T by Sunny between  October  
2016 and April 2018.
Our adjudicator informed  both parties  on 3 May 2019 that felt that the complaint should  be 
upheld in part:
loan one had already  been upheld by Sunny and itd offered redress  in line with what  this 
service wouldve recommended. As such, this loan wasnt considered  as part of his 
assessment;
he thought  that Sunny  hadnt done  anything wrong in providing loans two to five;
he did, though,  think that Sunny had been wrong to give loans six to eighteen to Mr T as, 
by that stage, the overall pattern of his borrowing  history suggested  that hed become 
persistently dependent upon short term loans. As a consequence he felt that Sunny 
shouldve recognised that further  lending to Mr T was unsustainable;
to put things right the adjudicator recommended  that Sunny should refund all interest  and 
charges Mr T had paid on loan one, and also on loans six to eighteen. It should pay him 
interest on the refunds, and amend his credit  file to remove  all information about  the 
loans.
Mr T confirmed to us that he agreed  with our adjudicators assessment and 
recommendations. Sunny also confirmed it was willing  to accept the adjudicators findings 
and recommended redress. It said that, as Mr T had yet to repay  the capital sums he owed 
it, there  was no refund  due to him. But it confirmed that the outstanding balance  of £987 
would be written off. 
Whilst both parties have accepted our adjudicators recommendations, a further dispute has 
since emerged over the settlement because Mr T has made a further payment to Sunny in 
the interim and he feels that this should be refunded  to him. In the absence of this, hes not 
now prepared to accept  the outcome of the adjudication process. Consequently the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
Ref: DRN38222852different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr T could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Having reviewed the circumstances of the complaint I agree entirely  with our adjudicators 
findings and suggested redress. For the same reasons cited  by the adjudicator I dont think  
Sunny was wrong to offer loans two to five but I dont believe it shouldve granted loans  six 
to eighteen. 
Ive reviewed the sequence of events thats  given rise to the dispute around Mr Ts 
subsequent payment to Sunny and see these as follows:
our adjudicator sent his findings  to both Mr T and Sunny on 3 May;
on 8 May Mr T confirmed to us that he was happy to accept our adjudicators  
recommendations;
Ref: DRN38222853on that same day Mr T received an email from Sunny saying  that it would be prepared to 
accept a 70% discount if he were to settle his outstanding account. It said that the 
balance outstanding was £987 but that if he made a payment of £296 it would write off 
the balance and close his account;
on 13 May Sunny confirmed to us it was willing to accept the adjudicators  findings  and 
recommended redress. It said that, as Mr T had yet to repay  the capital sums he owed it, 
there was no refund  due to him. 
Whilst the ensuing  refund  would be £177 short of the outstanding principal loan amount  
(which stood at £987),  Sunny  did confirm that the residual capital balance, after 
application of the refund, would be written  off;
later on that same  date (13 May), and because he hadnt yet heard whether or not Sunny 
was prepared to accept our adjudicators findings, Mr T borrowed money  from a relative  
and paid £296 to Sunny to clear  his account in line with its discounted offer;
in response to us raising with Sunny the issue  of the payment subsequently made to it by 
Mr T, it sent to us an amended refund calculation  which reflected its receipt of the £296 
payment. This then showed that a refund of £122.51 was due to Mr T.
Its clear to me that Sunny  had agreed to accept our adjudicators findings and to apply the 
ensuing refund to Mr Ts outstanding loan balances,  with the residual outstanding sum of 
£177.42 then being written-off.
Sunny offered a substantial discount to its settlement figure  after itd received our 
adjudicators findings.  Whilst it may well be that this was due to a breakdown  in internal 
communication, it is not, in my opinion,  fair or reasonable for Sunny to then benefit from a 
payment made to it by Mr T because of the stress he was suffering,  and his uncertainty 
about whether  Sunny  intended to accept our findings. 
As Sunny had already  confirmed to us that it would comply with our redress  proposals 
before Mr T made the payment to it of £296.11,  I consider it appropriate  that this amount  be 
returned to him.
Ref: DRN38222854my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and require Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as follows:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Mr T on loan one, and on loans six to eighteen  
inclusive;
add simple interest at 8% per annum to each of these  amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
apply the refund to the outstanding principal balances and write-off  the residual capital 
shortfall;
remove any adverse data relating to loan one from Mr Ts credit file;
remove loans six to eighteen inclusive from Mr Ts credit file;
refund  the sum of £296.11 to Mr T.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take tax off this interest. Sunny must give Mr T 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3822285