K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt  provide  up to date 
information about her loan and wrongly  recorded  a late payment on her credit  file. She asks 
that Halifax corrects  her credit file and pays compensation for the damage to her reputation.
background
Mrs R says she asked Halifax for a statement for her loan account as she thought the final 
repayment amount  was incorrect. She says she received inconsistent information  about the 
amount due. Mrs R raised a complaint. She says Halifax told her the account would be put 
on hold while her complaint was investigated.  However, it recorded a late payment on her 
credit file. Halifax said it would remove the late payment  but Mrs R says this didnt  happen 
for about two months. 
Mrs R says she was trying  to re-mortgage and the late payment marker had a negative  
impact on her credit record. She says the late payment  marker  resulted in the credit limit on 
one of her accounts  being reduced. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs Rs credit 
reports and a letter from the creditor that reduced  her credit limit supported what shed said. 
The adjudicator said Halifax should  pay compensation of £110  in addition to the £40 it had 
already paid for the impact  this had on Mrs R. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said more  compensation was due given the adverse impact on her 
credit score and profile plus the difficulty in having  to find £500 to pay into an account 
because her credit limit had been reduced.
Halifax didnt agree either. It said it had to report accurate information to the credit rating 
agencies. It said Mrs R had missed four previous payments  and it agreed  to remove  late 
payment markers  as a gesture of goodwill. It said the other  creditor  would have made  a 
decision to reduce Mrs Rs credit limit based  on its own lending criteria. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mrs R raised a complaint  with Halifax about the final repayment amount  for her loan, which  
she thought was incorrect. She says she was told by Halifax  that while it was investigating 
her complaint it wouldnt record any information with the credit reference agencies.  In its final 
response, Halifax said it accepted Mrs Rs word  about this and would remove the late 
payment marker.  It paid £40 compensation for the inconvenience Mrs R experienced.
The late payment marker  has been removed and the loan account is shown on Mrs Rs 
credit reports as settled. But Mrs R said the recording  of the late payment marker and the 
time taken  to remove it has caused  her difficulties. So I have to decide what compensation, if 
any is fair and reasonable. In doing so, Ive taken the following into account.
Ref: DRN39588262Another lender  reduced the credit  limit on Mrs Rs account with it after the late payment 
marker was recorded.  Its not certain  that this was due to the late payment marker. But the 
lenders letter to Mrs R says it reviewed  her account using credit scoring and information 
from a credit reference agency. So I think  its likely it was due to the late payment marker.
While Mrs R said she made a larger than usual  payment into the account with the reduced 
credit limit, this reduced her debt. So she didnt suffer  any loss. And the letter  from the other 
lender makes it clear  that it didnt expect  her to reduce the balance immediately  it said it 
wouldnt ask her to pay more than usual. Most likely Mrs R made  the payment to protect  her 
credit score, which is important to her. She says making this payment caused  her some 
difficulty.
While Mrs R says the late payment marker  severely  impacted  her credit score she hasnt 
provided evidence  that this resulted  in any financial  loss. Mrs R hasnt provided evidence of 
damage to her reputation or any resulting  loss. So I dont think its fair to require Halifax  to 
pay compensation for this.
Halifax said it refunded  late payment fees and removed late payment markers  for previous 
missed payments. So Mrs R benefitted  from this. And it says the repayment  figure  it had 
given Mrs R was correct.  But the complaint here is that Halifax  recorded a late payment 
marker despite having told Mrs R it wouldnt record information on her credit file while her 
complaint was investigated. 
This caused upset  and inconvenience for Mrs R. Mrs R had to contact Halifax  and the other 
lender. And she was worried about  the effect on her credit score. In the circumstances, I 
think £150 compensation (in total) for the upset and trouble caused  to Mrs R is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland Plc to pay £110  to Mrs R 
(in addition  to the £40 it has already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3958826