K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003  in one of the banks 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mrs P applied  for the credit card. It 
gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint because:
 Mrs P has said she feels like she was conned at the time of the sale.  I cant know  
what was discussed in the meeting so Ive considered her comments  carefully  and 
looked at the available paperwork. Mrs P indicated  that she wanted PPI on her 
application form, and there was nothing on the form that I think  could reasonably  have 
led her to believe she had to select it. There were other  products listed  in the same 
section that she didnt select, suggesting  to me she understood she had a choice. 
Overall, I think Halifax made  Mrs P aware  the PPI was optional and she chose to take 
it. 
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs P, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs P says she was 
entitled to six months full pay from her employer if she was sick and then statutory sick 
pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also 
gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. She says she could have sold her house 
and car, but the PPI would have  meant  she didnt need to take such extreme measures 
at what would  already have been a difficult time. She also said family would have 
helped, but thats  not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed  and peoples 
circumstances can change. Overall, I think PPI wouldve been  useful  to Mrs P if she 
lost her job or was sick and unable to work.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mrs P chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs P wouldve  made  a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think  she would  still have  taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs P has lost out because  of any problems  with the sale.
Ref: DRN36630462my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3663046