K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us that 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy in February 2002.
background
The cover Mr and Mrs F bought was split equally  between  them.  Mr and Mrs F say they 
didnt need the policy.
The MPPI was part of a packaged protection policy called Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). As well as MPPI it included life and critical illness cover.  Only the MPPI element of 
the TMPP has been complained about.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the policy had been  mis-sold.  Because  Mr and Mrs F 
disagree, their complaint  has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs F bought the MPPI at a meeting in a branch. And that BoS made a 
recommendation that they should  buy the cover. Because it recommended  the policy,  BoS 
had to make  sure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Fs situation and that the 
information it gave  them was clear, fair and not misleading. 
A good deal of the sale paperworks no longer available. Thats not unusual.  But Ive looked 
carefully at what BoS has been able to give us. I havent seen anything  to make me think  
that BoS presented the policy to Mr and Mrs F in such  a way that they werent  aware that 
were taking out PPI. And Ive noticed  from the screenshot information BoS gave us that 
Mr and Mrs F provided information to show they were eligible for the policy.  So on balance, I 
think its more likely  than not that BoS made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs F that they had a choice 
about whether  to buy the policy.
Ive next looked to see if theres anything else that makes me think that BoS might have 
mis-sold the policy. Ive looked at the MPPI  policy terms and cant  see that Mr and Mrs F 
wouldve been adversely affected  by any of the main policy  terms or exclusions. 
Ive then looked at their personal financial situation. Mr and Mrs F both said they were 
entitled to some benefits from their employer if one or both of them  couldnt  work. Theyve  
told us they each had employer benefits  of six months at full pay followed by six months at 
half pay. Ive seen that their MPPI policy  gave  Mr and Mrs F up to 24 months benefit if they 
werent able to work because of accident or sickness, or if one of them were to lose their job. 
Ref: DRN32383592By taking  on their mortgage, Mr and Mrs F had to maintain  a major financial commitment.  
And if either of them couldnt work  theyd  suffer a significant fall in income  and be at risk of 
losing their home. So overall I think Mr and Mrs F wouldve found the policy  useful. And it 
wouldve paid out in addition to their existing work  benefits.
I think BoS couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it had, 
I think Mr and Mrs F wouldve still bought it. I dont think the cost of the policy  was very 
different to what was available elsewhere  and the benefits (as Ive said above) seem  
suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. The MPPI element of the TMPP cost £32.34  per 
month, with a monthly total benefit to each of them  of £269.26.  So if either Mr or Mrs F made 
a successful claim, they could potentially get a lot more than theyd paid for the policy. 
Its possible BoS didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But as Ive said, its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs F would  have  been affected by any of these.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs F paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give them  
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
It looks to me as thought Bank of Scotland has already paid this back to Mr and Mrs F. But if 
it hasnt I expect it go ahead and do so now that Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3238359