K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. The complaint is brought  on his behalf by a claims  management company.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  which was taken  out to protect  Mr Hs credit card repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs 
representative disagreed saying, in summary, that Mr H was self employed when the policy  
was taken out and that it was automatically added.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs complaint.
Lloyds doesnt  have a full record  of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
Lloyds cant provide a copy  of Mr Hs application form and it cant  say for sure when and how 
the sale was made.  Mr H first took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1988 and I think its 
reasonable to assume that this was when the PPI was sold. Taking into consideration what 
the bank has told us, what Mr H recalls and what we know about PPI policies sold by Lloyds 
around this time, I think its more  likely  than not that Lloyds made Mr H aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it. Its not surprising  he cant remember this, given the 
sale took place  so long ago.
Its not clear whether  advice was given so, to be fair to Mr H, Ive considered the case  to the 
higher standard of an advised  sale. Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable for 
Mr H based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr H wouldnt have received 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  form of insurance  to cover him if he couldnt work due 
to sickness or an accident. The PPI wouldve  met his monthly repayments for up to 12 
months if he couldnt work and covered him if hed become unemployed. So I think the PPI 
couldve been a useful benefit.
I have taken into account what Mr H has said about being able to rely on family to support 
him if he was unable to work or if he became  unemployed. But this was not a guaranteed  
source of support, so does not change my conclusion.
Mr H was self-employed, but as the terms of the policy didnt make it any more difficult for 
him to make  a claim, than if hed been  employed.  So I dont think  he wouldve made a 
different decision if these terms had been brought to his attention.
Ref: DRN33019562Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But Mr H chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr H would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
This means  I dont  think Mr Hs complaint about  the sale of the policy  should be upheld.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium.  Its original offer of compensation only went  back  to 
1994, six years before  the earliest  statement it held. Lloyds has now said it will recalculate  
the offer from the start date of the card in 1988.  I think that is fair in this case.
What Lloyds needs to do
Lloyds does have  to work out and pay back to Mr H the difference between what he owes 
and what he would have  owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt been over 
50% of the cost of the PPI. It should assume  the policy started in 1988, when the card 
opened  and assume the balance of the account  increased gradually  until the start of the 
card. It should also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest (15%  before April 1993) if he paid off his 
credit card at some point.
I understand Lloyds  has already paid Mr H some of this. It can take this into account when 
working out the compensation it needs  to pay.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3301956