K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd (Endsleigh) misled her about the 
renewal of her motor insurance policy, resulting  in her driving unlawfully without insurance.
background 
Miss G took out a motor insurance policy  through  Endsleigh (an insurance broker)  in 2017. 
This was due for renewal in October  2018.
Miss G says she received  an email  from Endsleigh on 30 September  2018 which  led her to 
believe the policy had automatically renewed.  But on 25 October 2018, Miss G was stopped 
by the police for driving without insurance. Miss G says she was driven home  by the police 
and issued with a fixed penalty  notice,  which if she accepted, meant shed  be issued with six 
points on her licence  and a fine. She had to pay £150 to have her car released back to her. 
Miss G complained to Endsleigh about  the matter.  It said it didnt have a record  of the email 
Miss G referred to. And it couldnt find a record of Miss G opting  into the automatic renewal 
of her policy either. So it said the policy ended when it didnt  hear from her.
Endsleigh did have a note of two other emails it sent to Miss G. It said the first email 
contained her renewal documents which she was asked to review. And that the second 
email asked Miss G to take action before her policy expired. It said this email made it clear 
Miss Gs policy was ending. So it didnt think it had misled Miss G in its handling of her 
renewal. Miss G disagreed and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and upheld Miss Gs complaint. He didnt think  the 
emails Endsleigh referred to made it clear to Miss G that her policy wouldnt automatically 
renew. And he thought the email  Miss G referred to was misleading and had reasonably  led 
her to believe that her policy had renewed.  
So he set out what Endsleigh should  do to put things right. This included providing Miss G 
with a letter of indemnity,  refunding her the costs she incurred to release her car, and paying 
her £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
Endsleigh said that upon  further investigation  it found a record on its system of the email 
Miss G said she received. It said this email  is automatically sent whenever a new document 
is uploaded to the policyholders online account. It said this email was open to interpretation 
as to whether  it constitutes confirmation  that the policy  had renewed. So it didnt think 
Miss G could  rely on this to think she was insured. It didnt  agree  with the investigators 
findings and so the case was passed  to me to decide.
Miss G made this service  aware that she hasnt yet accepted the fixed  penalty  notice  for 
driving without insurance and so has taken the case to court. Currently she advises that the 
court proceedings are on hold while we decide  the complaint about  Endsleigh.  But Endsleigh  
has told us the six points were taken  into consideration  by it, when Miss Gs policy  was 
renewed with Endsleigh  in November 2018.  
Ref: DRN36172862For clarity,  its not our role to determine whether  Miss G was driving her motor vehicle 
without insurance. Were looking  at whether  Endsleigh  treated Miss G fairly at the point  her 
policy was due for renewal. As part of that determination well consider, amongst other 
things, relevant industry rules and guidance  on financial business,  such as Endsleigh, when 
renewing an insurance policy. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2019. In it I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the information Ive 
seen so far in this case, I intend to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill start by saying that I think  the outcome of this case  hinges on whether  or not the 
renewal information  Endsleigh sent to Miss G, before her policy expired, clearly 
explained that it would end if she didnt  take the required steps to renew it.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) 2.2.2 requires firms, such 
as Endsleigh, to communicate information to a consumer  in a way thats  clear,  fair 
and not misleading. ICOBS 6.5 sets out what a firm must do when its renewing a 
general insurance contract. And part of the requirement under this section is that it 
communicates the renewal information clearly and accurately,  and in a way thats 
accessible and which draws the consumers attention to it as key information. 
So my starting point in this case is to look at the information Miss G was sent at the 
point of her renewal and whether Im satisfied it met these requirements.
As set out in the background of this complaint, Miss G says she only received one 
email from Endsleigh. But from the information  Ive seen, Im satisfied  Endsleigh also 
sent two other emails  to Miss Gs registered  email address. While Miss G may well 
not have read them   emails can get lost or go unnoticed  I cant  hold Endsleigh 
responsible for this. Ill explain the content of each email below.
Email 1 was sent on 18 September 2018  and it states that Miss Gs policy  is due for 
renewal on 9 October 2018.  It says her renewal  quotation documents  are in her new 
online account and that copies wont be sent in the post. Shes asked to review  the 
information as soon as possible, to ensure she has plenty  time to check her renewal 
premium and cover, and to take appropriate  action before her renewal date. 
However, theres no mention in the body of the email that the policy  wont 
automatically renew.
In order to find this out, and to see the renewal  information, Miss G had to create  a 
new online  account  and log in. It wasnt readily available within the body  of the email,  
or even  as an attachment. This is somewhat onerous on Miss G. And given the 
importance of the message that the policy wouldnt automatically renew   and the 
ramifications of driving without insurance  I think the covering email shouldve  made  
this key information point clear.  
Ref: DRN36172863In the circumstances of this case,  I dont think Endsleigh  did enough to draw Miss Gs 
attention to the importance of reading  her renewal documents   especially given the 
fact that one of the most key parts of information it needed her to be aware  of, was 
contained within it.
Im aware the email goes on to say  Check the renewal invitation document which  
will tell you what  you need to do to renew your policy,  and how to make changes or 
stop your automatic renewal.  This statement  doesnt tell Miss G whether her policy 
will automatically renew or not. In my opinion,  it adds ambiguity to the email  rather 
than providing  clarity. 
It follows Im not persuaded the first email made it clear to Miss G that her policy 
wouldnt automatically renew. So even if she had seen it, Im not persuaded it 
wouldve made a difference  to the situation shes now in.
On 30 September  2018 Endsleigh sent a further two emails  to Miss G. 
Email 2 sent at 11.28am  - This is just to remind you that your car insurance policy 
(X) will expire  on 07/10/2018.  If you have  not yet accessed your renewal documents  
please log into your account to review your price and cover
Email 3 sent at 12.27pm - Thank you for choosing Endsleigh for your insurance.  
We act on behalf  of your insurer  to administer your policy  for you. Its really  important 
that all your personal details are correct as any inaccuracies could result in a claim 
not being paid, so please take the time to check your details carefully and call us on 
(X) if anything needs to be changed.
Email 2 does suggest that Miss Gs existing policy will end  albeit on a different  date 
to the one Endsleigh quoted in email 1. This email alone mightve alerted Miss G to 
the fact that her policy might not automatically renew. But Ive also considered the 
fact that this isnt the only email Miss G received  that day.
Less than an hour later,  Miss G received a third email from Endsleigh, which  thanked 
her for choosing Endsleigh for her insurance.  And Miss G says it was the content and 
timing of this email, that led her to believe the policy had in fact renewed. So Ive 
thought about the extent to which this email is clear, fair and not misleading.
Endsleigh initially  disputed the veracity  of email 3, but has since accepted its 
authenticity after seeing the original copy. Therefore, its the only email that both 
parties agree was sent and received. Our investigator concluded that email 3 was 
most likely a welcome email from Endsleigh which it had sent in error. So he thought 
it was reasonable  Miss G had taken this to mean  she had a new policy  with it. 
I dont think it matters  what  the internal processes and reasons are for email 3 being  
sent in the context of this complaint. The issue is that Miss G construed this email to 
mean her insurance policy was renewing  for another year. 
An ordinary reading of the email,  in my view,  sees it as thanking someone for 
choosing the insurance. It was sent to Miss G at the time of her renewal, and from 
what Ive seen, it was the last email she received from Endsleigh before the renewal  
date. 
Ref: DRN36172864Im satisfied that its not clear within this email  that her policy  was in fact about  to 
expire. Its, in my view,  very misleading  if the intention was to show  that the policy  
was in fact due to expire. And even  if it was sent by mistake, thats  not Miss Gs fault. 
With this in mind, and in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Miss G took this email to mean that her policy  had in fact renewed. 
By its own admission,  Endsleigh thinks this email  is open to interpretation  and Im 
satisfied that it wasnt  clear and could be interpreted  either way about  the message 
Endsleigh was trying to convey. 
As a result, Miss G interpreted it to mean  that she was insured and continued driving  
her car in good  faith, unaware she was in fact driving unlawfully.  If Endsleigh had met 
its obligations and sent renewal information  to Miss G that was clear and not open to 
interpretation, I think its more likely  than not Miss G wouldve taken the required 
action to ensure  she had cover in place for her car while driving  it. And as a result,  
she wouldnt  have legal  action against  her for driving  without insurance. 
It follows Im not satisfied Endsleigh did meet its requirements under ICOBS in this 
case. And I intend  to uphold this complaint and direct Endsleigh to take the 
appropriate steps to put Miss G back in the position  she wouldve been in (as far as 
is possible in the circumstances) had it not made an error.
Miss G has said shes suffered a substantial  degree  of trouble and upset because of 
Endsleighs failures  in this case. Alongside disputing the matter with the court, she 
had to take a day off work to collect her car and visit the police station  which  she 
says resulted in a loss of earnings as she works as a freelancer. Miss G has provided 
this service with evidence of her freelance  contract.
Taking everything into consideration I can understand why Miss G has found the 
situation distressing.  Being stopped by the police mustve been  a daunting and 
unexpected experience. And the further inconvenience of the remedial actions 
Miss G has had to take to get her car back,  and to dispute her liability with the police 
and the court system,  has understandably taken  up time it shouldnt have from her 
work and day to day life.
For these reasons I intend to direct Endsleigh to pay Miss G £750 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused in this case.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Miss Gs complaint and I plan on directing  
Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited  to do the following:
Provide Miss G with a letter apologising for sending  her a misleading email  
that she had insurance cover.  The letter should  explain  that if Miss G has 
suffered any financial  losses that wouldve been covered by her insurance 
policy, then Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited will pay those (subject to 
proof from Miss G).
Reimburse Miss G £150 plus 8% simple  interest to cover  the cost she paid to 
have her car released back to her (subject  to proof of payment from Miss G). 
Re-calculate the premiums Miss G paid for the new policy she took out with 
Endsleigh in November 2018 minus the six points it previously took into 
Ref: DRN36172865consideration when the policy was initially sold to her. Pending the result of 
this recalculation, it should refund  any difference in premiums to Miss G plus 
8% simple  interest on the total calculated amount, from the date Miss G paid 
the premium to the date Endsleigh Insurance Services  Limited  sends the 
refund. 
Pay Miss G £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  in this case. 
Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 
days of the date on which we tell it Miss G accepts my final decision.  If it pays  
later than this, it must also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple  interest. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence theyd like me to 
consider before I made  my final decision on this complaint.
Both Miss G and Endsleigh responded and confirmed theyd received the provisional  
decision and accepted the findings  and outcome of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have agreed to the outcome of my provisional decision, so I see no reason to 
set out my findings  again, as they remain unchanged.  
It follows that for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision  above,  I uphold this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint. Endsleigh Insurance  Services  Limited 
must now do the following:
Provide Miss G with a letter apologising for sending  her a misleading email  that she 
had insurance  cover.  The letter  should explain that if Miss G has suffered any 
financial losses that wouldve been  covered by her insurance policy,  then 
Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited  will pay those (subject to proof  from Miss G).
Cover the cost Miss G paid to have her car released back  to her by reimbursing 
her £150  plus 8% simple  interest on that amount,  from the date she made the 
payment to the date Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited sends the refund (subject 
to proof  of payment from Miss G). 
Re-calculate the premiums Miss G paid for the new policy she took out with 
Endsleigh in November 2018 minus the six points it previously took into consideration 
when the policy  was initially sold to her. Pending the result of this recalculation, it 
should refund any difference  in premiums to Miss G plus 8% simple interest on the 
total calculated  amount,  from the date Miss G paid the premium  to the date 
Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited  sends  the refund. 
Ref: DRN36172866Pay Miss G £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  in this case. 
Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days  of 
the date on which  we tell it Miss G accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, 
it must  also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple interest. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Endsleigh Insurance Services  Limited  to take off tax from 
this interest. Endsleigh  Insurance Services Limited  must give Miss G a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN3617286