K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Bulstrad Life Vienna  Insurance Group JSC (Bulstrad) has rejected a 
claim he made under his travel insurance policy when  he was unable to take a booked  flight 
because his passport  was stolen after hed left home to travel to the airport.
Ive already issued  a provisional decision in this case  in which  I upheld  Mr Ms complaint. 
Having received further information from both Mr M and Bulstrad, Im changing my decision  
for the reasons that follow.
background
Before a trip he had planned for December  2018, Mr M took out travel insurance online.  His 
policy was underwritten by Bulstrad, so its the entity  responsible for settling any claim.
Mr Ms trip was due to start on 23 December 2018.  He was booked  to fly abroad at 08.30 on 
that date. He was unable  to do so as he says his travel pack, which  contained his passport, 
wallet and cash,  was stolen that morning. He reported the loss to the police online.
Mr M has provided differing accounts  of what happened. In his report  to the Police, hes said 
that he had breakfast in a branch of McDonalds  near Kings Cross station at around 05.30.  
As there was some train disruption that morning, he decided to take a taxi to the airport and 
needed his smartphone to call one. He says he returned to his home, which  was about 10 
minutes walk away,  to get it. When there, at around 06.30, he noticed that his passport 
wasnt in his bag. He says he believes it was stolen  from his bag when he was at 
McDonalds. 
Mr M has also told our investigator that he noticed that his passport was stolen  when he was 
at the train station. 
Mr M made a claim under his travel insurance  policy for the loss of his wallet (£3.99),  the 
cash he said it contained (£310), a new passport (£75.50), and for the cost of the flight  he 
wasnt able to take and the return flight (£245.56).  
Bulstrad has made  a partial settlement  of Mr Ms claim. Its paid him £300  for his stolen cash 
which is the maximum amount payable  under  his policy for a claim for money.
It rejected his claim for the cost of his wallet as it said it was of no financial value given its 
age.
It rejected his claim for the cost of a new passport on the basis  that the policy provides for 
the cost of obtaining a replacement passport to enable a policyholder to return  to their home 
country following  loss or theft, but as Mr M hadnt left his home  country, he didnt incur  any 
expense to return to it. The policy in any event specifically states that it doesnt cover the 
cost of the passport document itself, only the cost of obtaining one.
In relation to Mr Ms claim for his missed  flight, Bulstrad referred  him to the following term of 
his policy:
CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT
What you are covered  for:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused  
portion of your travel and accommodation costs  that you have paid or contracted to 
Ref: DRN33272942pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following:
6. your passport,  or the passport of any person you were  intending  to travel with, being  
stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked  trip; (my emphasis 
added).
Bulstrad has said that it couldnt accept Mr Ms claim for the cost of his flights as the policy  
only covers this event if hed had his passport  stolen  in the 7 days before the start date of his 
trip. It says that as Mr M had left home and was on his way to the airport  when the theft 
occurred, his trip had started.  
Following Bulstrads rejection of his claim for his missed flight, Mr M brought  his complaint  to 
this service. Our investigators view was that Bulstrad hadnt  declined his claim incorrectly. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  view,  and maintained that the policy  wording is 
ambiguous. He asked  that an ombudsman consider his complaint, and the matter was 
referred to me to make  a decision. As initially I didnt  agree with the investigators  view, I 
issued a provisional decision.
In response to this, I received further information  about what Mr M had told our investigator  
on the phone. The original  file note of this conversation records that Mr M had said that his 
travel pack  had been taken from his rucksack when he was on the train on the way to the 
airport. My provisional decision assumed that this was correct.  Mr M didnt correct this after 
receiving my provisional decision.  However our investigator listened  to the recording of that 
conversation and it showed that Mr M had actually  said When  I got to the train station, my 
bag had been opened and I realised my documents had gone. Mr M then told our 
investigator in an email What I imagine I was trying  to say was "when I returned from the 
train station, as I was not en route to any the train station. This was therefore another 
version of events.
I also received further information from Bulstrad. It said that it queried the authenticity  of Mr 
Ms claim. Its said that as Mr M had said that hed noticed the loss of his passport at 06.30 
after hed returned home, it had reservations  concerning the validity of his claim given the 
journey time to the airport.  It believes that if hed been at his home  at 06.30, he wouldnt 
have been able to get to the airport  in time to board  his flight. It says its of the view that Mr 
M has fabricated  the event as hed clearly not left enough time to arrive  at the airport in time 
for his flight.
Mr M disputes this, and has given an example of another journey that he recently took to the 
same airport.
Bulstrad also emphasised that the policy provided for cover  for cancellation if a passport is 
stolen in the 7 days  before a trip has started, and that regardless of the 7 days  provision, Mr 
M hadnt  demonstrated  that his passport had been stolen, just that it was missing when he 
returned home to collect his mobile phone.
It also makes  the point that cover under the policy starts under all sections, apart from 
cancellation, when  the insured leaves home at the start of a trip. It had treated the policy  as 
starting when he left home, and so it accepted that he was covered for the theft of his 
money, and settled his claim to this extent. It argues that if my decision were to be that the 
trip had not yet started  just because hed left home, then it follows  that cover hadnt yet 
started for theft, so he should  repay  the £300  it had already  paid him.
Ref: DRN33272943So Bulstrad continues  to reject Mr Ms claim, and Mr M maintains  his complaint against 
Bulstrad
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having taken into account the additional 
information from Bulstrad  and Mr M, Im no longer going to uphold his complaint and Ill 
explain my reasons for changing my preliminary  decision.
Ive looked again at the terms of Mr Ms policy, and in particular  at the clause  that Bulstrad 
refers to in the Cancellation  section  of the policy that Ive quoted above. I think  its clear  
that for a cancellation claim to succeed  on the grounds of a passport having been stolen, the 
theft must  have occurred  in the 7 day period  before the start date. Mr Ms passport was 
allegedly stolen on the start date of his trip and after hed left home. His policy  states:
Period of insurance:  The period of insurance  for all sections except cancellation  
commences when you leave your home in your home country  to start your trip and ends 
when you have returned to your home  in your home  country. Cancellation cover for a Single 
Trip policy starts when you purchase  this insurance or when you book  your trip, whichever is 
the later. (my emphasis  added)
So when Mr M left home, his trip started. When his passport  was stolen, it was too late to 
cancel his trip and make  a claim under the Cancellation and Curtailment  section of his 
policy, as this says that for a successful claim, cancellation has to take place before the start 
of the trip.
Also, it was on the basis that his trip had started  that Bulstrad settled his claim for his lost 
cash. If I were to have  found that his trip hadnt started at the time his passport  and wallet 
were stolen, hed have to repay the £300 that Bulstrad paid him on the basis  that it had. Hed 
then have to repay Bulstrad more than hes claiming from it.
My conclusion is that I no longer consider that Bulstrad has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in 
rejecting Mr Ms claim for cancellation. Its acted in accordance with the policy wording. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint and I dont 
require Bulstrad Life Vienna Insurance Group JSC to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M accept  or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3327294