K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of claims 
on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
In February 2018  Miss Hs car was damaged  in an accident. She initially  claimed  from 
Advantage. Its approved repairer  said her car was a total loss. However, an independent 
engineer later said the car was repairable.  The other  driver  involved in the accident didn't 
accept liability for it. And Advantage told Miss H that if she wanted to get her car repaired 
she would  need  to pay her excess.  Miss H didn't want to do that and pursued her claim 
against the other driver  through  solicitors.  In December 2018 it came to light that Advantage 
hadn't passed the engineers report of the damage to Miss Hs car to her solicitors. However, 
the solicitors later dropped the claim.
Around the same time (December 2018)  Miss H was involved in another accident  that wasn't 
her fault.  Advantage said that her car was a total loss. It eventually paid her the cars pre-
accident value.  It initially told her it would deduct  the excess from that settlement but later 
agreed to waive  that.
Miss H complained about Advantages  service. It agreed that some of its service could have 
been better and paid her £150  compensation for the impact  of that. Miss H didn't  think that 
went far enough and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators  looked into 
Miss Hs complaint. He thought Advantage should pay her a further £150 compensation 
bringing the total amount  to £300.  Advantage agreed to pay the extra compensation but as 
Miss H remained  unhappy  her complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it and 
my award to put things right will be the same  as our investigator recommended. 
In bringing this complaint Miss H has made a number of detailed points and I've considered 
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues  since our investigator issued his assessment of Miss Hs complaint.
Advantage has accepted that it didn't get everything right.  In particular it took it around  ten 
months to forward an engineer's report to Miss Hs solicitors. In the meantime it appears that 
Advantage didn't update  Miss H on how it was considering  or not considering   her claim 
for the accident  damage to her car. And during that time she continued to driver her 
damaged car. And its likely that - if Advantage had communicated more  clearly during that 
period - then Miss H could have made an informed decision  about whether or not she 
wanted to have her car repaired in the meantime. But that didn't happen.
Miss H doesn't  think that the compensation our investigator recommended  goes far enough 
to address her distress and inconvenience  arising from the issues  our investigator looked at. 
And she said that driving her car unrepaired  might have put her and her children at risk. But I 
note that Miss Hs car was deemed to be roadworthy by the engineer who examined it. So 
Ref: DRN36276822while I can understand that she might have felt safer had the car been repaired,  I don't think   
its likely  that - given that the engineer's finings that the car as roadworthy  driving it 
unrepaired put her and her children at risk. And having thought about the complaint carefully 
Im satisfied that the extra £150 compensation our investigator recommended  - bringing the 
total figure to £300  is enough to address any omissions and miscommunication arising 
from Advantages handling of the claims on her policy. Thats because that sum is similar to 
awards we make in complaints of similar seriousness. It follows  that, unless it has already 
done so, I think  Advantage should  pay Miss H a further £150 compensation to address her 
distress and inconvenience.
For completeness, Ill add that Miss H was unhappy with some other aspects  of Advantages 
service including  the question of liability for her first accident and the price it quoted her to 
change a car on the policy.  But I understand  that Advantage was dealing  with those 
complaints separately  so I havent addressed them in this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited to pay Miss H a further £150  compensation - bringing the total to £300 - to 
address her distress  and inconvenience. Unless it has already paid that sum it should  pay 
the compensation  within 28 days of us telling it that Miss H has accepted my final decision. If 
it pays later than this, it must  also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Joe Scott
Ombudsman 
1 If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss H a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3627682