K820x#14Complaint
Mr B has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) hasnt administered  
his loans responsibly.   
Background
On 4 August  2018 Mr B contacted Lending  Stream querying the amount hed be paying  for 
his loans. He said his overall  balance  was £45 higher then he was expecting based on him 
having made some loan repayments early. So he didnt believe he owed Lending Stream  as 
much as it said. He added that hed already raised  this query  twice  through  Lending 
Streams on-line form but hadnt received  a response. Mr B said he expected a response by 
17 August 2018.  
Lending Stream acknowledged Mr Bs concerns the following  day and provided a complaint 
reference number  together  with details of its complaints handling procedure.  Mr B contacted 
Lending Stream on 17 August 2018  as he felt it had had long enough  to reply to his 
concerns. Lending  Stream  acknowledged  this email. Subsequently  on 28 August 2018 it 
explained to Mr B that it didnt understand the nature of his query and asked him to elaborate 
so it could assist  him. 
In response, Mr B said that he wouldnt be making  his payments due on 21 September  2018.  
Lending Stream explained  that it was entitled  to a period of eight weeks to provide  a 
response to his concerns. Mr B then informed Lending Stream  he wouldnt  be making any 
payments until he received a final decision.   
Lending Stream provided its final response  on 28 September 2018. It confirmed to Mr B that 
he had five loans  outstanding and provided the outstanding balance. Lending Stream also 
explained to Mr B that loan interest  was calculated daily but that the overall repayment 
amount payable wouldnt exceed 100% of the total amount borrowed. 
Mr B was disappointed Lending  Stream had taken eight weeks to consider his concerns, 
said he wouldnt be paying anything and asked for default fees to be removed. Lending 
Stream informed Mr B on 2 October 2018 that the default fees had been  charged because 
hed missed payments  in September 2018.  It also said that it hadnt passed  his debt to a 
collection agency. The following day Lending Stream offered Mr B a repayment plan, asking 
him to make  contact if he wanted to set one up. Lending Stream  also explained that the 
status of Mr Bs loans  would be reflected  in his credit report  and that failing to make a 
payment could result in his accounts  being  passed to a collection agency. 
In response, the same  day, Mr B said that he wouldnt be contacting  Lending Stream for 
eight weeks. Lending Stream replied to Mr B the next day. It acknowledged that Mr B had 
said he wouldnt reply for eight weeks and reiterated that interest on his loans would be 
calculated daily. On 14 October 2018, Mr B informed Lending Stream  that there  were  five 
weeks left before hed be replying further. 
He then contacted Lending  Stream on 16 November 2018 to complain that it should  have 
put his accounts on hold when it was investigating his previous concerns. Lending Stream  
acknowledged the new complaint and whilst it was considering it, reminded Mr B that he 
could set up a repayment plan to clear his debt through  an affordable repayment plan. 
During the investigation of the second  complaint Lending Stream also instructed a collection 
agency to collect  payments  on its behalf. 
Ref: DRN31187732Lending Stream completed its investigation  of the second complaint on 9 January 2019. It 
said it wouldnt freeze interest and charges until a repayment plan had been set up and 
asked Mr B to contact Lending  Stream  to request one if required. Lending Stream  also felt 
that interest  and charges had been  applied to Mr Bs accounts in line with the loans terms 
and conditions. The response also stated that Lending Stream  might transfer his account to 
a collections agency  or sell the debt to a third party if a payment arrangement  wasnt  set up.
Mr B pointed out to Lending Stream that a collections  agency had already been appointed. 
When Mr B complained to this Service, he also considered that the information  provided by 
Lending Stream on its website  about early loan repayment  was misleading. 
 
Our adjudicator thought that Lending Stream had dealt with Mr Bs complaints  fairly and 
within the guidance of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The adjudicator 
also considered  that Lending Stream had applied interest and charges in a reasonable way.  
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicator assessment and because  no agreement could be 
reached the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  taking into account all of the relevant 
rules, guidance  and good industry practice.  
To start with, Mr B has also made  a complaint about whether his loans were  irresponsibly 
lent. And I can see that this service has set up a separate complaint for Mr B about this 
matter, which will be addressed under a different  case reference number. So to be clear,  I 
will not be considering  whether  Lending  Stream were right to give him these loans. 
should Lending Stream have suspended interest  and charges?
The FCAs Dispute Resolution Rule DISP 1.6.2  stipulates that a final response to a 
complaint needs  to be sent within eight weeks after its receipt. 
Lending Streams  records  indicate that it received Mr Bs first complaint on 4 August 2018.  
Its final response was sent on 28 September 2018.  The second complaint by Mr B was 
made on 16 November  2018 and Lending  Stream replied on 9 January 2019. 
Mr B has said that he contacted Lending  Stream twice through its on-line form and did not 
receive a response. I can see in our complaint  form that Mr B mentions first contacting  
Lending Stream on 2 August 2018,  so this may be the date he recalls first using the on-line 
form. Ive not seen a copy of exactly what Mr B asked in those form, but given the content of 
his email of 4 August 2018 I have  no reason to think that Mr B hadnt used the online form. 
But, overall, Im satisfied that Lending  Stream responded to each of Mr Bs complaints  within 
the time limits set out by the regulator. I also dont think, Lending Stream  needed  to suspend 
any interest and charges  on Mr Bs outstanding loans  solely  because of the time it took to 
respond to each complaint. Indeed, the complaint Mr B was making was not about financial 
difficulties, so I dont  think Lending  Stream wouldve believed there was a need to suspend 
the interest at that time.     
Ref: DRN31187733When Lending Stream was investigating his first complaint, Mr B explained that he wouldnt 
be making any payments  during this period. This decision appeared to be a response to his 
dissatisfaction over the time frame of eight weeks. Following receipt  of the first final 
response on 28 September  2018, Mr B said that his next email would be within  8 weeks.  
Case closed. He then raised his further  complaint on 16 November 2018. But during this 
period, he didnt inform  Lending Stream of any reasonable grounds for his loans to be placed 
on hold. For example, Mr B didnt  ask for a repayment plan or provide  any indication that he 
wasnt able to make payments. And as the time taken to investigate  each complaint was 
within regulatory guidance, I cant reasonably say that Lending Stream  was wrong  not to 
suspend interest and charges. 
From what  Ive seen, Lending  Stream also explained to Mr B how interest would be charged 
and that it would be happy  to consider setting up a repayment plan. So, he would have been  
alerted to the implications of his decision not to make any payments. I think this was a fair 
response in the circumstances. 
account balance
From what  Ive seen, Mr B repaid loans 1 to 11 and 13 early. Looking  at the account 
information provided by Lending Stream, the early repayment of these loans resulted in a 
reduction in the interest charged. For example, the interest charge for loan 4 (£4) was less 
than the contractual interest (£84) and, for loans  8 to 10 the interest charged (less than £5 
for each  loan)  was less than the contractual interest  (around £40 to £41 for each loan).
So, the impact of early  repayment of these loans  is clearly reflected in the interest charged. 
Lending Streams  website did, as Mr B has indicated,  point out that early repayment  would  
mean a consumer would pay less overall,  as there wouldnt  be as much  time for interest to 
be added. The website in connection with these loans is in my opinion  not misleading.   
Lending Stream has also told us that a number of overpayments were made on some of Mr 
Bs outstanding loans.  For example,  loans  15 to 17. However, Mr B also incurred a late 
payment fee on loans  12 and 14 to 17. And as Mr B didnt make payments on time interest 
continued to be charged.  These  circumstances  would  impact on the loan balance despite  
some early  payments being made. 
Mr B has said that he isnt able to provide  documentary evidence  to show that the amount he 
needed to pay had increased by £45 (despite having  paid some  payments earlier  than the 
contractual repayment dates). All I can say is that Lending Stream has provided account  
statements showing the history of payments and the balance  of any outstanding loan. And 
Ive not seen any persuasive  evidence to suggest Mr Bs balances increased by £45 as a 
result of making repayments  early. 
Ref: DRN31187734collections agency 
In Lending Streams second final response  letter it explained to Mr B that it might transfer his 
account to a collections agency  or sell the debt to a third party if a payment arrangement 
wasnt set up. At this point it seems Lending Stream had already transferred the outstanding  
loans to a collections  agency. So, the final response wasnt accurate.  From  what  Mr B has 
told us he was aware of this position  so fortunately he wouldnt have been misled by what  
Lending Stream said. And so this mistake  didnt have any negative impact  on Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3118773