K822xcomplaint
Mr S says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr S had eight loans with Lending Stream between July 2012 and March  2013. Ive set out 
some of the details Lending Stream provided about the loan in the table below.
Loan no. Start date Amount (£) End Date
1 16 July 2012 215 01 August 2012
2 01 August 2012 360 29 August 2012
3 31 August 2012 375 26 September 2012
4 28 September 2012 375 25 October 2012
5 28 October 2012 315 20 November 2012
6 21 November 2012 375 18 December 2012
7 02 March  2013 215 open (sold)
8 08 March  2013 375 open (sold)
An adjudicator considered  Mr S complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. He didnt 
think Lending Stream was wrong to have  approved  loans 1 to 4 but did think  Lending  Stream 
was wrong to have  approved loans 5 to 8. 
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicator  and made an offer in line with his 
recommendation. After  some discussion, Mr S rejected the adjudicators  view.  His objections 
included that Lending Stream was wrong  to have lent from loan 2 onwards and that it should  
pay him £1,000  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr S case. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr S could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr S income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
As Lending Stream has made a fair offer in respect of loans 5 to 8, Im primarily going to 
focus on the loans still in dispute  loans 2 to 4. Mr S hasnt continued  to challenge the 
decision to approve  loan 1 but Ive still reviewed it as part of my consideration of his 
complaint.
Ref: DRN30516942I dont think the first four loans were  approved  irresponsibly. As Ive summarised above, in 
the earlier stages  of the lending relationship,  I think Lending Stream was able to rely on less 
thorough affordability  checks. It asked Mr S about  his monthly income  and expenditure, 
which seem  to have been  declared as £1,200 and £500 respectively, leaving Mr S with 
disposable income in the region of £700  per month.  Lending Stream  also carried  out a credit 
check for each loan. I think its fair to say the credit check  was broad brush and so didnt go 
into a great  deal of detail  about Mr S other commitments. But this was within the rules and 
the results of the check didnt suggest Mr S was in any clear financial difficulty. Ive not seen 
that Lending Stream was aware of any defaulted accounts as Mr S has suggested.
Mr S is also unhappy about  Lending Streams conduct after it made the offer on loans 5 to 8. 
Hes argued that Lending  Stream should  amend  his credit  file before the outstanding 
balances are repaid.  
Assuming Lending  Stream buys  back the debts, I think  its fair that any amendments to his 
credit file are made after Mr S has repaid the principal amounts owed. Its fair that other 
(potential) creditors are aware of outstanding  debts  and if Mr S doesnt repay the principal,  
its fair that this continue  to be reported. But as Lending  Stream has accepted  the 
adjudicators view that the later loans were lent irresponsibly, its also fair that Mr S credit file 
be amended at the appropriate time. The same logic applies if Lending  Stream  doesnt buy 
back the debts   the only difference is it will have to request the third party debt owner(s) 
remove the adverse  information once the principal debts are repaid as it wont be able to 
make the amendments itself.
Mr S has also argued that Lending  Stream shouldnt offset  any redress against  the 
outstanding debts if it doesnt  buy the debts back. Theres  been no dispute  on this point  and 
I agree  its the fair position.
Ive considered Mr S request that the outstanding principal be waived but I dont consider 
this to be fair. Although some of the loans were  wrongly approved, Mr S still had the benefit  
of the principal. Lending Stream  returning  the interest he paid and Mr S returning the 
principal he received comes as close as is possible to putting  both parties  back in the 
position they would have  been in had the loans not been approved. Thats  this services  
usual approach to redress  for complaints about irresponsible  lending  and I see no reason to 
depart from that approach in Mr S case.
Ive also considered Mr S request for an award of £1,000 for distress and inconvenience. 
I can accept Mr S has been through a difficult time but Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
Lending Stream was (or ought to have  been)  aware of his difficulties at the time it lent to him. 
So Im not making  an award for distress and inconvenience.
In summary,  I think Lending Streams  offer to settle the complaint in respect of loans 5 to 8 is 
fair. Ill clarify  below  the circumstances in which Lending Stream  can offset  any redress 
against the outstanding  debts.
putting things right
For loans 5 and 6: Lending  Stream should refund the interest and charges Mr S paid, adding  
8% simple  interest per annum, from when  he paid the interest and charges until the date of 
settlement. It should also remove any adverse information about loan 5 from Mr S credit  file 
and remove all information about loan 6.
Ref: DRN30516943For loans 7 and 8: I understand these loans  were sold to third parties.  Lending Stream 
should buy back these  debts if it can. If it can buy them  back, Lending Stream  should  rework 
the loans to remove any interest  and charges from the outset and treat any payments made 
as if they were payments towards the principal. Lending Stream can then deduct the net 
amount of what it owes Mr S for loans 5 and 6 from the balance.
If Lending Stream cannot buy back loans 7 and 8, it must pay the redress  for loans 5 and 6 
directly to Mr S. It must then work with the third parties to cap Mr S liability  for loans 7 and 8 
at the principal amounts he borrowed. For example, it can pay any amount  charged  above 
the principal sums to the third parties on Mr S behalf.
In respect of Mr S credit history  if Lending Stream buys  back loans 7 and 8, it should 
remove them from Mr S credit file once the principal has been repaid. If it doesnt buy them  
back, it should request the third parties remove them once the principals  been  repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I uphold Mr S complaint in part. Gain  Credit LLC must put 
things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3051694