K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D and their son Mr D1 complain  about a mortgage  with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. 
Mr D1 is the borrower, with his parents  acting  as guarantors. 
background
In 2007, as Mr D1 was about to go to university,  he bought a property to live in with his 
parents acting as guarantors on the mortgage. They  received advice from a broker,  which  
applied on their behalf to BoI.
After a year or so Mr D1 decided not to continue with his studies. He tried to sell the 
property, but they say it was by then in negative equity. So instead he rented it out.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 complained  about  the mortgage.  They  said it had been  
mis-sold. They said it wasnt  right for Mr D1 in view of his age and limited  means.  And it 
wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs D to act as guarantors  when Mr D was about  to retire, and 
they already had a mortgage  of their own. 
Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 said they werent advised  of alternative products, or what would 
happen when  the initial three-year fixed rate expired. The mortgage was on interest only 
terms, and repayment  wasnt  considered.  They said they werent advised of the risk that the 
property might fall into negative equity, or that Mr and Mrs D would be responsible  for the 
payments if Mr D1 couldnt  keep  them  up. There was no discussion about what  would 
happen if Mr D1 wanted to let the property out, or that BoI would  need  to give  and might 
refuse  permission. And there was no proper assessment of Mr D1s financial 
circumstances, including  the other  commitments that come with owning a property.
Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 also complained about  what had happened since the sale.  They  
say that the property has been let out and while BoI agreed to this, it charged a fee. It has 
refused to change the interest  rate or make the mortgage more  affordable.  As a result the 
interest rate is much higher than that charged  by other lenders  but Mr D1 cant move  
elsewhere while he is on a low income and the property  is in negative equity. Mr D1 
enquired about  converting the mortgage to buy to let at a lower  rate, but this wasnt possible.
Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 say Mr D1 asked for help in 2018 because the rent was no longer 
covering the mortgage, but BoI wouldnt do anything to assist. And BoI was only concerned 
with how the mortgage would be repaid at the end of the term  when it should have asked 
that question at the beginning. As a result of this mortgage, Mr D1 has suffered financial 
hardship, which has led to depression  and stress,  and made  the relationship with his parents 
more difficult. 
Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 say BoI has a duty of care to them  and to Mr D1 particularly  and 
has failed in that duty.
BoI said it didnt sell the mortgage  it was sold by a broker  so the broker  was responsible  
for the complaint about the sale.
BoI said Mr D1 had applied for permission to let the property out in 2010. It said it was a 
condition of letting  the property that while a consent to let was in place no changes could be 
made to the mortgage  including new interest rates. This meant the mortgage  had been  on 
the standard variable rate (SVR) ever since. BoI said Mr D1s application for a buy to let 
Ref: DRN33923242mortgage didnt  meet its criteria. It didnt think the property was now in negative  equity, and it 
recommended that Mr D1 get independent financial advice about his options.  BoI said the 
mortgage was up to date and it wasnt aware  of Mr D1 being in financial difficulty.  BoI said it 
had added costs  relating  to the propertys  leasehold  costs to the mortgage to protect  its 
security.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 
asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 have complained about the sale of the mortgage and the 
circumstances in which it was taken out. The mortgage was sold by a broker. A mortgage 
broker isnt a representative or agent  of the lender  in fact, a broker  acts as agent  of the 
borrower in looking  at the market for a suitable  lender  and so BoI isnt responsible for the 
brokers advice or actions. The broker is responsible for the advice given, and whether the 
mortgage was suitable. Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 have made a separate  complaint about  the 
broker in connection  with the sale of the mortgage.  Another ombudsman has said that 
complaint was made out of time, so Ill say no more about it here.
Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 have also raised an incident in 2010,  when  unpaid  fees in 
connection with the propertys leasehold  were added to the mortgage.  There was a 
complaint made about this at the time. BoI responded to that complaint, saying that there 
was a risk that  if the fees werent paid to the freeholder or its agent   it would forfeit  the 
lease. This means  that Mr D1 would lose the property  and the bank would lose its security  
for the debt. So it paid the fees on Mr D1s behalf  and added  them  to the loan balance.  BoI 
said that if Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 werent happy with its response to that complaint, they 
had six months to complain to us. That letter was sent in 2011  and as more than six 
months have passed, that means  that this isnt a complaint we can consider now. Im not 
aware of any exceptional  circumstances that would explain why the complaint wasnt passed 
to us at the time.
That means that, in this decision, Ill focus  on whats  happened since  the sale  and in 
particular the interest  rate charged to the mortgage,  as well as whether BoI has treated  
Mr D1 fairly or failed  in its duty of care to him  excluding the leasehold costs added  in 2010.
In fact, there  isnt an overarching duty of care that a lender owes  to a borrower,  at least not 
in the way that Mr and Mrs D have  described  it in their complaint with us. The rules of 
mortgage regulation set out specific duties and obligations. Most relevant in this case  is the 
requirement to assist borrowers  in financial difficulty where possible to maintain the 
mortgage. And in addition  to that, theres  the regulators general  principles,  which require a 
firm to treat its customers fairly, taking into account their best interests. Those  are among the 
key factors for me to take into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
This mortgage was taken  out as a residential  mortgage. The plan was that Mr D1 would live 
in the property while he was studying.  But those plans changed, and Mr D1 moved  out and 
let the property. Im not entirely sure exactly when he began  doing so  there was a request 
for a consent to let in 2008 which didnt go through  but in any case BoI agreed around ten 
Ref: DRN33923243years ago that Mr D1 could let the property out. That agreement   called a consent to let  
has been in place ever since.
However, this was and has always remained a residential mortgage. That means that its a 
term of the mortgage  that Mr D1 is required to live in the property himself and not rent it out. 
Strictly speaking, therefore,  hes in breach of the terms  of the mortgage agreement. A 
consent to let means that BoI is aware  that hes doing so and has agreed to it. So it wont 
take any action  in respect of the breach of the terms.
BoI attaches a number of conditions to the agreement to consent to let. One of those 
conditions is payment of an annual fee. Another is that it wont  allow any changes to the 
mortgage  such  as a new interest rate  while the consent to let is in place.
The reason  for that is that consent  to let is intended to be temporary. As Ive said, this is a 
residential mortgage. Its not designed for a rental  property. A buy to let mortgage  which 
operates in a different  way, and has different pricing and terms and conditions  is 
appropriate for a rental property. There are different risks and costs to a lender in operating 
a buy to let mortgage compared to a residential mortgage. These include reliance on the 
tenants rent not the borrowers income  to pay the mortgage  with potential  problems when 
the property is vacant  as well as, in general,  a higher risk that the property wont  be as well 
looked after.
Therefore, where  a property is rented out it should really be done so with a buy to let 
mortgage, not a residential one. But sometimes residential borrowers can find themselves in 
changed circumstances and need to rent the property out for a limited time  which  is where 
consent to let comes  in.
A consent to let is therefore designed to be temporary, while  the borrower adjusts to their 
new circumstances and makes arrangements to either sell the property or re-mortgage  it as 
a buy to let. Its not designed to be a long-term solution.
The temporary nature of consent to let is reflected  in the fact that BoI requires an annual 
renewal and fee. And its also reflected  in the fact that no new interest rate is allowed. A 
fixed interest rate generally comes with an early repayment charge (ERC)  usually a 
percentage of the loan balance. If the mortgage  comes to an end during  the fixed rate, either 
because the property is sold or re-mortgaged, an ERC will be payable.
Therefore, new interest rates arent usually allowed during consent to lets. A consent to let is 
a temporary solution,  pending sale or re-mortgage. Either of those would trigger  an ERC if a 
fixed rate was put in place. That means  that  as in this case  the borrower  remains  on the 
standard variable  rate (SVR).
The difficulty  in this case is that the consent to let has now been in place for ten years. With 
hindsight, fixed rates given during that period  would  have expired without an ERC ever 
arising. 
But I cant decide this complaint with hindsight. The fact that a temporary  arrangement 
turned out to have lasted longer than expected doesnt mean that it was wrong  at the time to 
have viewed it as a temporary arrangement.
And in any case,  Ive also explained why a rented property is, in general, a riskier proposition  
for a lender.  Because this is a residential mortgage,  the only interest  rates available  would 
Ref: DRN33923244be those for residential  borrowers  which are priced  on the basis of the risk presented by a 
borrower living in the property,  not the risk of a rental property. 
So I dont  think its unfair that BoI has refused Mr D1 new interest rate. Consent  to let is a 
temporary solution, and therefore not appropriate  for a rate with an ERC. And it means the 
property is rented out  and not appropriate  for interest rates designed for residential 
property.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs D and Mr D1 dont feel this way, but I think  BoI has in fact 
shown them fairly significant forbearance  over the last ten years.  This is a residential 
mortgage, not designed for rental property. Its allowed a temporary solution  and has 
allowed it to continue for ten years.  Its not required Mr D1 to sell the property or 
re-mortgage, and hasnt taken action against him even though hes not complying with the 
terms of the mortgage.  
BoI did look to see whether Mr D1 could re-mortgage to buy to let internally, but he didnt 
meet the buy to let mortgage criteria  in that the loan to value wasnt  less than 80%, and 
Mr D1 wasnt a homeowner himself.  But that doesnt mean he wouldnt meet another 
lenders criteria. If he was able to move  the mortgage to another lender  on formal buy to let 
terms, that would  likely mean a lower  interest rate than BoIs SVR. Mr D1 might  want to 
consult a specialist  mortgage adviser to see what options are available to him. But its not 
unfair that BoI would only consider a buy to let mortgage if Mr D1 met the criteria it expects 
all its buy to let customers to meet.
Mrs D says the property is in negative equity  or so theyve been told by the letting agent 
who manages the property. But theres  never  been  a formal valuation,  and BoI says the local 
house price index suggests it might not be in negative equity. If thats the case, its more  
likely that Mr D1 would  be able to re-mortgage. Or if thats not possible, he might be able to 
sell the property  as its clear that the continued existence of this mortgage is causing  him 
and his family distress. So its likely to be worth them  considering seeking a formal valuation,  
either as part of a re-mortgage application  or on a stand-alone  basis.
Mrs D has also pointed out the obligations  of a lender to assist a borrower in financial 
difficulty. The rules  of mortgage  regulation  say that a lender has to treat such  a borrower  
fairly. Options such as extending  the term, a temporary payment arrangement  or switching 
the type of mortgage should  be considered  though wont be appropriate  in every case.
In this case, Mr D1 has managed to maintain the mortgage payments. I appreciate its been 
a struggle for him. But I cant see that hes ever discussed being in financial difficulty  with 
BoI. He has said that he might have difficulty maintaining the payments if interest rates rise 
in the future, but thats not the same as current financial difficulty. 
However, if at any point Mr D1 does struggle to meet  the payments, or finds  he can no 
longer do so, he will need to contact BoI. BoI should listen  sympathetically, should try and 
understand as much  as it can of Mr D1s situation and finances, and see whether  theres  any 
form of assistance that will help him get the mortgage back on track.
From the evidence Ive seen, it doesnt  seem Mr D1 has yet asked for assistance in that way 
 hes warned of the possibility of future problems, rather than saying he has immediate 
difficulties. Should that ever change,  he will need  to get in touch with BoI  and it should 
treat him fairly and in line with the regulators guidance.
Ref: DRN33923245Overall, I do understand  that this is a difficult situation for Mr D1 and his family.  This 
mortgage was taken out in different times,  when his circumstances were different. I can see 
why its continued  existence has caused problems for Mr D1 and for his family. But I dont 
think BoI has acted unfairly  and there may be options for Mr D1 that would be worth  
exploring. So I do suggest he considers taking independent financial advice to see what  can 
be done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D and 
Mr D1 to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3392324