K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have 
terminated her finance agreement  early.
background
Mrs H entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in October 2015 to finance receipt 
of a used vehicle. But she says that the agreement was terminated without her knowledge  
and she wants it reinstated. The background is as follows:
In September  2017 Mrs H called VWFS and told them  she was looking to downsize her 
property as her husband  had stopped work due to ill health.  In calls with them in October 
and November 2017 she paid off the arrears on the account. She also explained  that her 
and her husband were  now in rented  accommodation. She explained that she would provide 
her new address in due course and she explained her previous  landline wouldnt work 
anymore. She told VWFS  that shed cancelled her direct debit  and wanted  advice about 
setting it up again.  The call handler  explained  that it looked like the direct  debit  was still in 
place. 
VWFS did nothing  until July 2018 when their records show  they tried to call Mrs H but the 
phone was no longer connected. They also emailed her at her current  email address asking 
her to call them. They repeated this activity in August and September 2018 and having 
received no contact they defaulted the account in August  2018  and the agreement  was 
terminated.
In October  2019 Mrs H called VWFS  because shed applied for a mortgage and been told 
about the default on her account.  She was concerned shed not received an arrears  letter.  
She said shed not realised the account  payments  were not being made and had been 
focussing on her husbands ill health. But VWFS said the agreement had been terminated  
and refused to reinstate it.
So Mrs H referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her view.  She 
thought VWFS had been wrong  to suggest that the direct debit was in place during the call 
shed had with them. She also thought they shouldve been in touch before the arrears had 
accumulated so much. She noted  that they hadnt tried to contact Mrs H between  November 
2017 and July 2018 and if they had tried to send a letter to her old address it wouldve been 
redirected as Mrs H had told her this service  was in place. She reviewed the bank 
statements Mrs H had sent her and noted that there were  sufficient  funds to make the 
relatively modest payments that she understood Mrs H may not have noticed were  not being  
debited. And having taken all matters in to account she thought the fairest  resolution  would 
be for VWFS to reinstate the account; discuss a sensible payment plan with Mrs H that didnt  
include interest and that they should  pay her £250  in recognition  of the distress and 
inconvenience shed  been caused by the issue.
But VWFS disagreed. They said it was for Mrs H to tell them  her new address and that it was 
her responsibility to understand the state  of her account with them.  So they asked  for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN36037772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
This was a difficult period for Mrs H. I think, in the call she had in late 2017, she was 
misdirected by VWFS. Had she not been  misdirected I dont think this situation would have 
been likely  to develop.  So I think VWFS should  take some action.
I think its reasonable to suggest Mrs H would have left the call in late 2017 assuming the 
direct debits were still being taken.  The call handler  said the direct debit was still in place  
and when Mrs H questioned this the call handler checked and confirmed that was the 
situation. 
I can understand Mrs H may have  missed the fact that payments were  not being  debited.  
She was told differently;  will have been  focussed on her husbands  ill health;  the payments  
were relatively small and her account  balance sufficient to suggest the absence  of payments 
may not have been missed.
I think she could have  expected VWFS  to alert her to problems much  earlier  than it did. I 
consider, on balance, that 11 months is a long time to wait to take action on an account 
where payments  are not being received. When VWFS  did take action their communication  
channels were limited as Mrs H shouldve given them her new contact details. The emails 
didnt refer to any arrears so Im persuaded that Mrs H wouldnt necessarily have understood 
there were any and, given  the problems she was having at home, I think its understandable 
she may not have been reviewing her emails  anyway.
Mrs Hs account of the reason she first contacted VWFS seems reasonable. She had 
explained that she was looking to find a new property and would have been making a 
mortgage application. So it seems clear that at this point  the credit  file entries would have 
been noted. Im therefore persuaded that Mrs H hadnt received any of VWFSs messages 
and wasnt aware  of the debt until after it had been  defaulted. They could therefore have 
been more sympathetic to her when she did get in touch with them.
So I agree with the adjudicator that a fair resolution to the problem would be for VWFS to 
reinstate the agreement  and agree a sensible payment plan with Mrs H to settle the arrears  
without interest being applied  from the point at which they misdirected  her about the direct 
debit instruction (November  2017).  And I agree that, in the circumstances, they should also 
pay Mrs H £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Ref: DRN36037773my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
reinstate the agreement 
agree  a repayment plan for the arrears which should have no interest added
pay Mrs H £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience shes experienced 
as a result of this issue
remove any adverse credit reports they may have made  to her credit file as a result 
of this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3603777