K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he wasnt made aware of the arrears on his account in a timely manner 
by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited and about  other issues with the way that its dealt with his 
account.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr P under  a conditional  sale agreement with Moneybarn that he 
signed in January 2017. He agreed  to make monthly payments of £168.71 but he didnt 
make all of the payments  that were  due. He complained to Moneybarn in June 2018 that it 
hadnt made him aware of the arrears on his account and other issues. He wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He hadnt seen 
evidence to show that Moneybarn didnt inform  Mr P of the arrears on his account in a timely 
manner and he said that Mr P was given the option  to complete an income  and expenditure 
form and set up a payment plan. He recommended that a payment plan be set up so as to 
reduce the level of arrears and he thought that Moneybarn had acted fairly and in line with its 
terms and conditions. 
Mr P has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He has responded to 
the adjudicators  recommendations  in detail and has identified ten issues  in his response, 
including that Moneybarn didnt contact him about the arears  until early 2018 when they 
were more than £500, it didnt collect  his direct debit and wasnt  helpful  to him. He also says 
that he thinks that the figures provided by Moneybarn are wrong and that it hasnt  confirmed 
where those figures  have  come from.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr P feels strongly that Moneybarn  hasnt dealt with his account correctly and 
that it didnt inform him about the arrears on his account in a timely  manner.  Mr P entered  
into a conditional  sale agreement with Moneybarn in January 2017 and agreed to make 
monthly payment  is of £168.71. Mr P says that the payments were to be collected on the 
30th day of each  month.
Moneybarn has provided the statement of account  for Mr Ps account which  shows  the 
payments that have  been made to it. It shows that direct  debit  payments  of £168.71 were 
made in February,  March,  April, August, September, October and November 2018  and 
February, March, April, May and July 2019 and that he also made card payments of £70 in 
May 2017, £98.71 in June  2017  and £168.71  in each  of August and September  2018.  The 
statement also shows that direct  debits payments bounced  in July 2017  and January  and 
August 2018.  So on that basis, the required monthly payment wasnt received in May, June, 
July and December  2017 and January and June  2018.
Moneybarns account notes show that it contacted Mr P about his missed payment by e-mail 
and text message  in May 2017 and that it had a phone conversation with him about it. Those 
notes also show that it contacted Mr P about  his missed payment in July 2017 and that it had 
another phone  conversation with him about  his payments. Moneybarn has also provided a 
Ref: DRN37628872copy of the arrears letters that were sent to Mr P in January and June 2018 which  showed  
that the arrears  on his account were £502.13.
Ive seen no detailed  evidence to show that the information shown on the statement of 
account is incorrect. And I consider that Moneybarn  has taken reasonable steps to contact 
Mr P about  his missed  payments. Mr P was responsible for ensuring that his payment was 
made each  month and he wouldve known (or ought reasonably to have known)  from his 
bank statement that his direct debit payments hadnt  been made and that his account was in 
arrears.
Moneybarn has asked  Mr P to provide it with information about his income and expenditure 
so that a payment plan can be agreed   but he hasnt done so. Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that Moneybarn has dealt with Mr P incorrectly. I consider 
that it has taken reasonable steps to contact him about the arrears  on his account  and has 
acted fairly  and reasonable in response  to his missed payments. And I dont consider that 
there was any requirement for Moneybarn to take any other action when Mr P had 
complained to this service.
I sympathise with Mr P for the financial and other  difficulties that hes experienced. But I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require  Moneybarn  to 
waive any or all of the arrears on Mr Ps account  or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint. I suggest that Mr P provides  Moneybarn with information about  his income 
and expenditure  so that a payment plan for the arrears  which  is affordable for him can be 
agreed. And Moneybarn is required to respond to any financial difficulties that hes 
experiencing both positively  and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3762887