K820x#14complaint
Ms M and Mr H are unhappy that Sesame Limited  mis-sold them  a mortgage term 
assurance policy. 
background
In 2002 Ms M and Mr H applied for a mortgage with a third party bank.  In doing so they also 
considered taking out mortgage protection and contacted  a financial advisor, Sesame.  
Sesame recommended they take out a term assurance policy costing £15.68  per month  
which would pay just over £54,000  if either Ms M or Mr H died at that time. 
Ms M and Mr H say that Sesame told them the term assurance policy was a requirement  of 
their mortgage. And because of the advice  they took out a term assurance policy costing 
them £15.85 per month. 
Ms M and Mr H are unhappy as they believe Sesame mis-sold them the term assurance 
policy. Ms M says that Sesame told them they needed to take out the term assurance policy 
when taking out the mortgage. She also says that neither her nor Mr H were  in poor health 
so had no need for the policy.   
Ms M and Mr H complains that the misleading  advice  given to them  by Sesame caused them  
to take out the term assurance plan at £15.68 per month when they didnt need the policy.  
On reviewing Ms M and Mr Hs complaint Sesame said they cant  find any evidence  
Ms M and Mr H were told it was a requirement of their mortgage to take out life insurance, 
and this wasnt the case at the time.  So they didnt agree with their complaint. 
Ms M and Mr H werent  happy with the response  they received from Sesame, so complained  
to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms M and Mr Hs complaint and concluded  that Sesame 
didnt tell them they needed  to take out life protection to qualify for the mortgage. So they 
didnt need to do anymore. 
Ms M wasnt happy with the response. She said:
-They were told by Sesame they needed the policy  to qualify for the mortgage and 
Sesame benefitted  from the sale.
-They were both healthy when taking out the policy.
As Ms M and Mr H didnt  agree its been  passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I dont think Sesame 
need to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN37062462Ive looked at all of the paperwork  provided  by Sesame and Ms M and Mr H. With advised 
sales theres a responsibility on the seller to make  a suitable recommendation based on their 
assessment of the buyer.  
Ive looked at a letter  Sesame sent Ms M and Mr H in May 2002  which informed them  its 
imperative that you also protect your outstanding  mortgage debt in the event of your death or 
earlier critical illness. And a further letter, in June  2002, sent to Ms M and Mr H by Sesame 
confirming the action theyd agreed  to take after a meeting  the letter  said the lending bank 
recommends that you effect life cover. In both these letters, and the reasons why report  
issued by Sesame,  Ive seen no evidence to indicate Sesame told Ms M and Mr H a term 
assurance policy was needed for them to qualify for a mortgage.  
I understand that Ms M and Mr H argue that they were advised in person by Sesame that life 
protection was a pre-condition of their mortgage, meaning they wouldnt get a mortgage 
without it. Im satisfied that Sesame  strongly recommended Ms M and Mr H to take out life 
protection, but Ive not seen any evidence that they were told they wouldnt get a mortgage  
without it. Im satisfied that the lender would have made it clear if this was a requirement so I 
think its more likely  than not this didnt happen   even if I reached a different conclusion, 
Ms M and Mr H were written to on a number of occasions advising that Sesame 
recommended the policy  but it wasnt a requirement.  
Ive also considered whether the policy was suitable  for Ms M and Mr H at the time. Im 
satisfied that Ms M and Mr H were advised  of the benefits of the term assurance policy,  and 
didnt have comparable  cover to what was being provided. Although Mr H had death  in 
service benefits through his employer, this didnt cover the entirety  of the mortgage  and 
would cease after an employment change.  Ive considered Ms M and Mr Hs point that they 
were both healthy when taking out the policy.  But this doesnt change  my opinion. Im 
satisfied that the policy  provides a high level of cover  an initial lump sum payable  on first 
death or on the first diagnosis of a terminal illness  which they didnt already have. 
Therefore I dont think its unreasonable Sesame recommended additional cover. 
In conclusion, I dont  think Sesame need  to do anymore here. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms M and Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3706246