K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a monthly premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a credit card in 1999. He was sold the PPI in connection with this credit card.
The PPI would have  cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  It 
would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mr C was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr C was eligible  for the PPI at the time of the sale.  
Given Mr Cs age and what I understand of his circumstances at the time, Im satisfied he 
was eligible.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr C that PPI was optional  and needed  his consent before it 
could be applied to the account. Mr C says he cant remember purchasing  PPI but that its 
more than likely that that he would have  understood the PPI to have  been  a condition  of the 
borrowing otherwise  he wouldnt  have taken it out.
Understandably given the length of time since the sale,  Lloyds no longer have a copy  of the 
actual application  form. And again  understandably, Mr C doesnt remember much about the 
sale either. Lloyds have provided a sample  copy of an application form which shows  that the 
PPI would have  been presented as optional  although its not clear how Mr Cs policy was 
actually sold. 
What all this means is that there isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude  that its more 
likely that PPI wasnt presented as optional or that Mr C didnt agree to take it out.
Lloyds say that they will treat this sale as an advised sale.  This holds them  to a higher bar 
compared to a non-advised sale and means they would have had to take adequate steps to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr C. I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps as they 
should have. But I do think  the PPI was suitable  for Mr C. I say this because:
-      The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs employee  sick pay and would
have done so for a much  longer period of time. It would also have  paid out if he 
lost his job.
Ref: DRN34168612-      I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr C was affected by the 
terms in the policy  which  would have made it difficult  for him to make a 
successful claim  under the policy. Mr C has told us about an injury he had at 
work and the ongoing problems he has had but Mr C hasnt been able to provide 
any medical evidence  to support this.
-      Mr C could  have cancelled the PPI at any time without facing a financial penalty  if 
he no longer wanted  or needed  it.
-      I havent seen  evidence which  suggests  the PPI was unaffordable for Mr C at the 
time of the sale.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mr C, Lloyds also had to give him clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about  the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that he could make  an informed decision about whether  or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C wasnt as clear  as it should have been but this 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put him off taking  it out. And I dont think  it would have. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable  for him.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr C this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Lloyds  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
 
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3416861