K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have made  end of 
agreement charges unfairly. He asks that they accept his settlement offer.
background
Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in November 2013. When  he returned  
the car at the end of the agreement, VWFS had the car inspected  by British Car Auctions Ltd 
(BCA).
The inspector noted damage, which he reported  as outside the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. Specifically:
1.Front bumper  dented   repair cost £55.20
2.Front bumper grill  broken  repair cost £55.90
3.LH Rear door  dented  repair cost £138.00
4.LH Door scratched   repair  cost £27.60
5.Parcel shelf missing  replacement cost £139.01
6.LH Rear quarter panel   dented   repair  cost  £138.00
7.Rear tailgate  3 scratches  repair cost £110.40
8.RHR Wheel  excessive damage  repair cost  £489.77
The total cost of the refurbishment charges amounted to £1153.88+VAT. 
The inspection report also noted  the mileage to be 108,883.  The maximum permitted 
mileage under Mr Bs agreement was 40833. VWFS charged Mr B an excess mileage 
charge in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement of £4899.60 and the 
refurbishment charges  of £1384.66 incl VAT. The total invoice was for £6284.26.
Mr B accepted the excess mileage charges but disputed the refurbishment costs. He 
understood the vehicle had been sold at auction without being repaired and so he didnt 
think it fair that he should have to pay them.
In its final response,  VWFS say the refurbishment  charges were all outside the BVRLA fair 
wear and tear guidelines and are payable  in accordance with the terms and conditions  of 
Mr Bs hire purchase agreement  as are the excess mileage  costs. They  didnt accept Mr Bs 
offer of settlement or uphold his complaint.
An adjudicator looked into things for Mr B. He considered all the information from both 
parties and looked  carefully at the terms and conditions of the hire purchase  agreement.  He 
also considered  the photographic evidence from the inspection  report.  He found the 
refurbishment charges  to be outside  of the BVRLA fair wear  and tear guidelines and 
chargeable under the agreement. He understood Mr B was unhappy the vehicle had been  
sold at auction  without the repairs being  undertaken but he felt that was a commercial 
Ref: DRN31107112decision VWFS were  entitled to make  and that didnt negate  Mr Bs liability for the 
refurbishment charges.
Mr B didnt agree. He feels  the purpose  of assessing  damages or excess mileage is to 
establish a fair terminal price for the car when  it is returned under a lease contract. As the 
vehicle has been  sold without repair, he doesnt  agree  with the charges levied. He asked for 
an ombudsman review.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing I have considered relevant law, 
regulation and industry standard  and reviewed all the information  provided by both parties 
afresh. 
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it but because  I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, Ive looked at the terms  and conditions of Mr Bs agreement.  It says with regard to 
excess mileage:
11.1if the vehicle  covers more than the maximum annual mileage in any succeeding 
period of 12 months starting from the making of the agreement, and/or the maximum total 
mileage,,,,you will be liable to pay us the excess mileage as shown  on page 1The liability  
will accrue with each  mile covered by the vehicle in excess of those mileages. You must 
discharge that liability by paying the charges on demand..
Page 1of the agreement says the excess mileage charge payable  pursuant  to Clause  
11 of the terms is 7.2p per mile (incl vat)
With regard to the care of the vehicle the agreement says:
3. Care and use of the vehicle
3.1 Whilst we own the vehicle  you must
 - keep the vehicle in good repair and condition commensurate with its age and mileage
 - allow us to inspect it at all reasonable times and allow us to access  for this purpose to any 
premises where the vehicle is being kept
3.2 You will be liable for any damage  to or deterioration of the vehicle which  is in excess of 
fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle
Im satisfied the agreement Mr B signed give VWFS  the right to make charges at the end of 
the agreement  for both excess  mileage and any damage outside of fair wear and tear 
guidelines.
I reviewed the BVRLA accepted industry  standard guidelines and considered  whether any 
damage or markings to the vehicle met or exceeded the guidelines  definition  of what can be 
considered a scratch, scuff or dent for fair wear  and tear purposes,  but also the impact in 
terms of any loss the company would suffer because of them. This approach is in line with 
the guidelines. Any damages  should  be assessed  for fair wear and tear and then in terms of 
Ref: DRN31107113any loss of value  and not just in isolation. I must first consider if the damage falls within or 
outside the fair wear and tear guidelines. To do this I have carefully  considered the 
inspectors report and photographic evidence submitted.
Front bumper  dented   repair cost £55.20
The industry standard says, Dents (up to 10mm)  are acceptable  provided  there  are no more  
than two per panel  and the paintwork is not broken. Dents on the swage line or roof are not 
acceptable.
Ref: DRN31107114The photographic evidence clearly shows a dent outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines  
and so chargeable damage.
Front bumper grill  broken  repair cost £55.90
The photographic evidence clearly shows this is broken,  outside  of the fair wear, and tear 
guidelines and so chargeable damage.
LH Rear door  dented  repair cost £138.00
The photographic evidence clearly shows a dent outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines  
and so chargeable damage.
LH Door scratched   repair  cost £27.60
The industry standard says, Scratches and abrasions up to 25 mm are acceptable relative 
to the vehicles age and mileage and provided the primer  or bare metal  isnt showing.
The photographic evidence clearly shows a scratch outside of the fair wear  and tear 
guidelines and so chargeable damage.
Parcel shelf missing  replacement cost £139.01
Parcel shelf/load cover is missing. Accessories such as the parcel shelf/load cover  and 
restraining straps and nets must  be returned with the vehicle. As the parcel shelf  is missing  
VWFS can make  a charge for it.
LH Rear quarter panel   dented  repair  cost £138.00
The photographic evidence clearly shows a dent outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines  
and so chargeable damage.
Rear tailgate   3 scratches  repair cost £110.40
The photographic evidence clearly shows more than one scratch  outside of the fair wear  and 
tear guidelines  and so chargeable damage.
RHR Wheel  excessive  damage  repair cost £489.77
The industry standard doesnt allow for dents or holes  on wheel trims or rims.  The 
photographic evidence clearly shows damage  to the wheel outside of the fair wear  and tear 
guidelines and so chargeable damage.
Having looked  at all the photographic evidence, Im satisfied it does fall outside the fair wear 
and tear guidelines  in all instances and so is chargeable.  But as I said early having assessed  
any damages for fair wear and tear, I must now assess them in terms of any loss of value  
and not just in isolation.
Mr B complains because VWFS sold the vehicle was sold at auction  without  repair its unfair 
to ask him to pay for refurbishment costs. I have looked at the invoice provided by VWFS, 
CAP valuation and the Glasses Guide to gage  the value of the vehicle in good  condition with 
the contractual mileage that should have been travelled, compared  with the actual mileage  
and condition of the vehicle when  Mr B returned  it.
Ref: DRN31107115VWFS sold the vehicle at auction for £12,900.  The vehicle was assessed  at below average 
condition and the CAP valuation was given at around £14,350.
The Glasses  Guide gives the valuation for the vehicle at 40,833  miles (the contractual  
mileage) at around £18,820  glass trade price or retail priced at £21,910 and the valuation for 
the vehicle at 108,833 miles at £13,010 glass trade price and £16,610 retail price.  
Im satisfied from the valuation comparisons Ive looked at VWFS have sustained a loss as a 
result of the damage  to the vehicle, which falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines 
and the excess  mileage and have acted  fairly  and reasonably in asking Mr B to meet  his 
contractual obligations under the terms of the agreement,
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3110711