K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about how Aviva Insurance  Limited dealt with their home emergency 
claim. My references to Aviva include its agents.
Mr and Mrs S are joint policyholders and complainants. As Mr S has corresponded with 
Aviva and us on their behalf  for ease of reference  Ive mainly referred to Mr S. 
background
On 6 December  2017 Mr S reported to Aviva  that his had boiler  broken down. Due to his 
wifes health conditions Aviva classed them as vulnerable customers.
On 7 December  Avivas contracted engineer attended but left as he had no access to the 
boiler. Mr S says he offered to move  the kitchen unit but the engineer  wouldnt wait. On 
12 December a second engineer attended. When he checked the boiler  details against
the Gas Safe Register Technical Bulletin he found  the boiler was listed  as containing 
asbestos. He told Mr S he couldnt  work  on the boiler and left.
Mr S believed his boiler didnt contain  asbestos.  Aviva sent a third engineer, from a different  
contractor, who also said the boiler had asbestos. On 14 December Aviva spoke and wrote 
to Mr S to say its engineers wouldnt work on a boiler with asbestos but it would pay for the 
boiler to be privately  repaired, subject to the policy terms and limits.
On 18 December Mr S sent Aviva  an email from the boilers manufacturer  who said the 
boiler doesn't contain asbestos.  Aviva wrote to Mr S on 22 December  that the information 
didnt change it position. Mr S says he got the letter  after Christmas. He arranged for an 
engineer to repair the boiler privately  on 4 January 2018.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us that Aviva  left them without  heating or hot water for 30 days. 
They want  Aviva to pay £336.73 for the private  repair costs,  £161 for the electricity cost of 
heating the house while the boiler  was broken and compensation for their distress  and 
inconvenience which Mr S detailed. He said Avivas service had been totally unacceptable  
particularly as they were  vulnerable customers.  Mr S also added that Aviva hadnt  supplied 
emergency heaters  and didnt offer £500 towards  a new boiler  when he was looking into that 
option, as the policy  provided.
Aviva said it wasnt  able to do the repair in line with the policy terms. It had agreed to pay for 
a private repair  as a gesture of goodwill due to Mr S and his wifes vulnerability.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably in understanding  the boiler contained 
asbestos and hadnt done anything wrong in refusing to repair  the boiler. It didnt  need  to pay 
towards heaters  or a new boiler. But he did think some delay could have been avoided if the 
first engineer  had accessed the boiler. Our investigator said Aviva should  pay £125 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  as had Mr S known five days  earlier that 
Aviva wasn't going to repair  the boiler,  he might have got a private engineer to do the repair 
before Christmas.
Aviva agreed to pay £125 compensation.  Mr S said that wasnt  enough. He sent in various 
evidence which he said showed  his boiler  had no asbestos. He said Aviva hadnt 
substantiated its belief that the boiler had asbestos.  He believes Aviva didnt repair the boiler 
because it had no experienced gas engineers available  at the time.
Ref: DRN34982762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint  in part. Aviva  has now made  a fair and reasonable offer to pay £125 
compensation for Mr and Mrs S distress and inconvenience. Ill explain why.
There is contrary evidence as to whether  the boiler  contained asbestos.  The evidence  from 
the boiler manufacturer says the boiler  doesnt contain asbestos.  Another booklet from the 
manufacturer says asbestos was banned from use in boiler manufacture  in 1984. Mr S says 
his boiler was made later. 
The engineer who did the private  repair says there was no disturbance of asbestos 
containing materials in carrying out the repair as the asbestos in the boiler  is limited  to the 
rope seal used as a flue gasket which  would  only be disturbed if the boiler  was taken off the 
wall. So his evidence is there was asbestos but it wasnt disturbed.
The two Aviva's  engineers who did access the boiler  said it contained asbestos. The Gas 
Safe Register technical bulletin  shows the make and model and specific number of Mr and 
Mrs S boiler as containing  asbestos. Avivas technical gas compliance adviser told it that the 
particular Gas Safe Register  technical bulletin is the industry guide  for appliances that 
contain asbestos. 
I think Aviva  acted reasonably in following  the industrys guidance in the technical bulletin.  It 
could reasonably understand the information  was accurate. Ive seen Mr S points about the 
bulletin saying it's not an exhaustive list and anyone concerned that asbestos  may be 
present should  get advice from the manufacturer. But that wording is for when some  is 
concerned there is asbestos and a boiler  isnt listed. I dont think it means an item listed  as 
containing asbestos may not be correct.
Aviva doesnt allow  its engineers to work  on boilers  that contain  asbestos. The policy 
excludes situations where  because  of health  and safety and with your prior agreement,  
another engineer has to be brought in who we do not employ, e g to handle  asbestos. As 
Aviva could reasonably  understand the boiler  did contain asbestos it didnt need to cover the 
repair. Its paid Mr S the cost of the private engineer to do the repair.
Aviva acted fairly in not doing the repair and in paying for the private repair. 
Aviva told Mr S its position on 14 December. That could have been bought forward  by up to 
five days if the first engineer had accessed the boiler and seen  the boiler type. The policy 
says:
Creating access
On arriving at your property, the engineer  will aim to locate the source  of the incident. If 
direct access is not available (for instance  if there are floor tiles or floorboards,  or any of your 
possessions (such as storage boxes or furniture) in the way) the engineer will need  to create 
access. If you want the engineer to do this, you will be asked to confirm  this in writing  while  
the engineer is at your property.
So the first engineer could have got access. 
Ref: DRN34982763It's possible the extra five days may have meant Mr S could have got a private repair  done 
before 4 January. Ive not seen any evidence of any attempts Mr S made to find a private 
engineer to repair to know  if it would actually  have made a difference. He had an engineer 
lined up to replace  the boiler  around  19/20 December but as Aviva didnt confirm it would 
pay towards that Mr S didnt get the boiler replaced. Its not clear why he didnt ask that 
engineer to repair his existing  boiler  as Aviva  had already confirmed it would pay for a 
private repair.
Mr S and his wife clearly  had a very uncomfortable 30 days  without hot water and heating in 
particularly cold weather and Im sorry to hear how it affected them. Mr S has also said they 
paid about £160 for electricity during that period.  
However, for the reasons  Ive given I dont think Aviva is responsible  for Mr and Mrs S not 
having hot water and heating for all that period.  I think the £125 Aviva  has now offered is a 
reasonable amount of compensation for their distress and inconvenience including a 
contribution to the electricity bill for the five days delay that might have made a difference.
 
As to the other matters  Mr S raised, the policy gives £500 towards a new boiler if the existing 
one is declared  beyond economical repair. That wasnt  Mr and Mrs S situation so Aviva  
didnt need to pay the £500. The policy says if parts need to be ordered and it will take over 
72 hours to arrive from the engineer's first visit Aviva will deliver two electrical heaters. But 
that also wasnt the situation. It wasnt  that parts had been  delayed, Aviva had said it 
wouldnt do the repair and Ive explained why I think  that was fair.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs S £125 compensation in total for their distress  
and inconvenience,  as its now agreed  to do. Payment must be made within  28 days of us 
telling it Mr and Mrs S accept my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3498276