K822xcomplaint
Mr W is unhappy with information  hes received  from Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  
about his pension.
background 
Mr W is seriously ill and has given his wife authority to deal with this complaint on his behalf. 
Where she has acted  for Mr W, Ive mentioned it in the decision.
Because of his illness, Mr W was thinking  about cashing in his personal pension.  Aviva 
wrote to Mr W in November 2018  letting him know that he could receive slightly  less than 
£7,000 as a lump sum payment and just over £55,000 would be set aside to provide benefits  
for Mrs W. The full value  of the pension is therefore just over £62,000.
When Mrs W telephoned Aviva to discuss  this, she says she was told the full value of the 
pension could be paid as a lump sum. Mrs W says she immediately told her husband who 
had been worried  about providing for his family  in the event of his death. Later, on the same 
day, Mrs W says that Aviva telephoned  her and changed the information  it gave to say that 
only a portion of the fund could be paid as a lump sum.
Mrs W complained  saying  that Aviva had given differing information in the two telephone  
calls. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint and confirmed  that Mr W wouldnt be able to have 
the full value of the policy.  Mr W was unhappy and complained to us; he wanted to be given 
access to his total pension and compensation for the upset and stress hed suffered. Mr W 
has since taken some benefits from his policy. In December  2018 he received  just over 
£7,000 as a lump sum payment under the serious  ill health section of the policy.
Our investigator thought that Aviva  didnt have to pay the full value of the pension, but it 
could have provided a better service. She recommended Aviva pay £100 for the loss of 
expectation and for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr W.
At first, Aviva didnt  agree with our investigator, saying there was no evidence to support the 
view that Mrs W was given incorrect information. Subsequently  Aviva said that it didnt wish 
to prolong this matter  for Mr W and offered a goodwill payment of £100. Mr W didnt accept 
Avivas offer;  he felt that £100  wasnt  enough for the stress and worry he had suffered. The 
case has now come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  part of Mr Ws complaint is that he wants access  to his pension.  In 1992 Mr W 
transferred from his occupational pension scheme  into a section 32 plan. This is essentially 
a contracted-out  plan from the State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).  The 
transfer included  the requirement to pay a minimum pension when Mr W reaches the age of 
65. This is known as the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP).
It was anticipated  that the funds hed transferred to his section 32 plan would grow  
sufficiently well to pay the minimum  pension Mr W would be due at age 65. But if investment 
returns are poor, say, there may not be enough money in the plan to pay for the pension.  If 
Ref: DRN39794462so, Aviva has to make  up the shortfall  but only from the age of 65 (Mr W is 62). There is 
just such a shortfall in Mr Ws pension. To cover the GMP, the value of his pension has to be 
just over £132,000.  Aviva  has told Mr W that the value of his pension is just over £62,000.  
Its because of this shortfall that Mr W cant currently access  (or transfer)  his pension.  As 
such, I dont think  Aviva  has done anything wrong  here.
The remainder of Mr Ws complaint concerns what happened during the calls between 
Mrs W and Aviva in November 2018. Mrs W sent an email  to Aviva  after the two phone  calls 
which set out her disappointment at the conflicting  information she says she was given. 
Mrs W says there were  two phone calls, but Ive only got Avivas call notes from one of them.  
It mentions payment  of a small lump  sum followed by a pension  being paid to Mrs W after
Mr Ws death. Im not able to confirm  exactly what was said in these calls as they arent 
available. Despite the incomplete  evidence,  its clear that Mrs Ws recollection of what was 
discussed differs from what  is said in the call note and the previous letters  from Aviva.
When our investigator looked  into this, she felt what Mrs W was saying was plausible and 
placed greater  weight on this than on the call note. As a result,  she thought  that Aviva had 
made a mistake.  Without the call recording  and only one call note, its difficult  for me to make 
a definitive finding. But I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome  of Mr Ws 
complaint. Aviva doesnt agree that it made a mistake but has offered £100 as a goodwill 
gesture. But even if it did make a mistake,  Im satisfied Aviva acted promptly to put things 
right. It wrote  to Mr W the day after the disputed phone calls to set out the details of what he 
would receive. This letter is consistent  with the details  given to Mr W when it wrote to him 
earlier in November. Ive also borne  in mind that Mr and Mrs W hadnt taken any action as a 
result of what Mrs W understood from the conversation with Aviva and that Mr W hasnt 
therefore suffered  a financial  loss. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Aviva to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. If it hasnt already done so Aviva  
Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay the £100  it offered to Mr W as a gesture of goodwill. 
It doesnt have  to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3979446