K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained about the service from Hartley Pensions Limited, (Hartley) who 
administer a Self Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP) on her behalf. She believes it has 
unfairly charged her a net fee of £384  after she was told no annual  fees would be taken. 
background
Miss W opened  her Lifetime  SIPP  in December 2015 on the advice  of her financial advisers. 
The investments within  the SIPP were subsequently suspended, and the investment portfolio 
was encashed  on 10 July 2017. The sum of £2,825.80 was subsequently  returned to the 
SIPP cash account. 
Miss W then raised a complaint against her financial advisers, who have subsequently gone  
into administration. 
Lifetime was then acquired by Hartley, who deducted the sum of £744  in respect of fees 
from Miss Ws SIPP on 15 May 2018,  although £360  of this was subsequently refunded  as it 
had been taken in error.  
Miss W complained to Hartley.  She said that it had been agreed with Lifetime that no fees 
would be taken from her SIPP whilst  the complaint against her financial advisers  was 
ongoing. 
Hartley did not uphold Miss Ws complaint. It said that whilst Lifetime had not taken any 
annual fees from the SIPP up to that point, as the SIPP was active and required ongoing 
administration it was correct that they charge ongoing  fees going  forwards.  
Miss W then brought her complaint to this service.  
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended that it was not upheld. She said 
Hartley had outlined  their responsibilities  as trustees  of the SIPP  which they are obliged to 
perform by their regulator, and she thought  it was fair they take charges to cover these. And 
as the assets  within  Miss Ws pensions  were liquid, there was nothing to stop her 
transferring her pension  away  to an alternative  provider if she didnt want  to pay the fees.
She also said that whilst  Lifetime  hadnt  deducted  fees in the past, that was its business 
decision which she didnt think Hartley needed  to abide by. Miss W had agreed to the annual  
fees when she opened the SIPP, and so she thought it was fair that Hartley take these. 
Miss W did not agree. The matter  has therefore  been referred  to me. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
unavailable, I take into account the balance of probability. In other  words,  what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in all the circumstances. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss W but I agree with the conclusions of our adjudicator  and for 
the same  reasons she set out in her assessment of Miss Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN37661982I appreciate that Miss W was not charged fees on her SIPP  prior to her original SIPP  
provider being  acquired by Hartley.  But that fee suspension is not binding on Hartley. 
I have not seen any evidence to persuade me that on acquiring Miss Ws original SIPP 
provider, Harley agreed or was obliged to continue  with the fee suspension arrangement  
whilst Miss Ws complaint  against her financial advisers remained unresolved.
In any event, and notwithstanding the original fee suspension arrangement,  I agree with 
Hartley that the matter  of Miss Ws unresolved complaint against her financial adviser is not 
relevant to the issue of whether Hartley is justified in charging Miss W a fee for administering 
her SIPP.
Harley confirmed to Miss W that on the acquisition of Miss Ws original SIPP provider, the 
fee schedule originally agreed  to by Miss W would apply in circumstances  where the SIPP  
remained active or was not transferred elsewhere. That is, in my view, a legitimate 
commercial judgement by Hartley.
I appreciate Miss W says she did not receive such confirmation from Hartley at the time it 
completed the acquisition of Miss Ws original SIPP provider. But given Miss W has 
confirmed she contacted Hartley the day after such confirmation was dated,  I think  it more 
likely than not that such confirmation  was sent to her by Hartley.
I understand Miss W has now transferred her pension arrangement.  I am not aware  that 
there has been any material change in circumstances  such that a transfer could  not have 
been completed at the point Hartley acquired Miss Ws original SIPP provider. Had Miss W 
transferred at that point, the fees of which she now complains would have been avoided.
That being  the case and as I am satisfied Hartleys  fees are consistent with the original fee 
schedule, I am not persuaded  Hartley  should be held to account for this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.                          .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3766198