K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that NRAM Limited approved  further borrowing on a joint mortgage 
account without  proper checks. She says she didnt sign the application  and wasnt  aware  of 
it. She says NRAM failed to investigate  her concerns previously. Mrs M asks that at least  
50% of the further borrowing is refunded. 
background
Mrs M and her late husband (Mr M) had a joint interest  only mortgage with the former  
Northern Rock. The mortgage has been taken  over by NRAM. She says additional borrowing 
of £25,000 was taken out in 2006, secured on their house. She says this was done by fax 
without her knowledge. 
Mrs M says her signature  was forged  and if NRAM had made  basic checks it would have 
seen that the signature on the document was nothing like her signature on the original 
mortgage documents. Ms M says NRAM should have contacted  her and checked she knew 
what was happening instead of assuming her husband spoke for her.
After Mr M died,  Mrs M says she felt she had no option but to repay  the mortgage, including  
the additional borrowing, or risk losing her home. She says shes  £25,000 worse off as a 
result.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said it wasnt  
reasonable for NRAM to approve the loan when Mrs Ms signature on the documents was 
obviously different from the original  mortgage documents.  However, Mr M received the 
money and the mortgage was repaid from his estate. So Mrs M didnt suffer a financial loss. 
The investigator said NRAM  should  pay Mrs M £250 for the trouble and upset caused by its 
error.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said NRAM had been unsympathetic  in pursuing repayment of the 
mortgage after Mr M died.  She said she had a financial loss because the £25,000  had to be 
paid back and this left her without  enough money  to buy a home large  enough for all of her 
children. Mrs M said £250 wasnt enough  for 14 years of anguish while her concerns were  
ignored. She said she wouldnt accept £250.
NRAM also disagreed.  It said Mrs M hadnt  provided  evidence of fraud or that shed reported 
the matter to the police, as it had advised  her to do. It said Mrs Ms handwriting varies a lot. 
It also pointed to discrepancies in Mrs Ms account about when she first knew  about the loan 
and whether the fraud was committed by Mr M or a third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr M and Mrs M took out an interest  only mortgage of £300,000 with NRAM in 2004.
Ref: DRN35021032In April 2006 NRAM approved an application  for £25,000 of further borrowing. The funds 
were paid into a joint account in the name of Mr M and Mrs M.
Mrs M contacted NRAM in November 2007  saying Mr M had forged her signature to apply 
for the further  borrowing. Mrs M said she would take legal advice and inform  the police. Mrs 
M told NRAM  in December 2007 she hadnt  reported the matter to the police. She asked to 
be informed if Mr M repaid the £25,000.  
In January 2009 NRAM received a letter from solicitors saying they acted for Mrs M in 
divorce proceedings. The letter said Mrs M disputed signing the application for further 
borrowing, which was executed by Mr M, and asked  for a copy  of the documents.
Mr M died in 2012 and the mortgage was repaid  in November  2012. The house  was sold in 
2014.
what should happen now?
Mrs M has been consistent in saying  that she didnt sign the application for further borrowing 
and wasnt aware  of it at the time.  I accept her account. I also accept Mrs M has genuine  
concerns that, without  her knowledge, her late husband was able to borrow money  secured 
on their home and for which she was jointly liable. I can understand why she says NRAMs 
checks were inadequate.
However, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require NRAM to refund all of part of the 
£25,000 to Mrs M. Ive explained  why below. 
The loan funds  were  paid into Mr and Mrs Ms joint account. If Mr M hadnt applied  for, 
received and transferred the funds,  Id have expected him to raise concerns  with NRAM and 
the police. Theres  no evidence he did so. Mrs M hasnt provided a crime reference  number 
or other evidence she referred the matter to the police.
The mortgage was repaid  using the proceeds of Mr Ms estate. I think thats fair. Mr M 
borrowed the money from NRAM. I think its reasonable for NRAM to expect  him to repay it, 
albeit that the repayment  was from his estate.
I appreciate that repaying the additional borrowing reduced the amount Mrs M received as 
beneficiary. But this would  have been the same if Mr M had repaid the additional borrowing 
before he died or if hed taken out a loan in his sole name. I dont think Mrs M suffered a 
financial loss that would  make it fair and reasonable for me to require NRAM to refund  all or 
part of the additional borrowing as compensation.
Mrs M raised a number of issues about  NRAMs internal processes and staff training. We 
arent a regulator  and cant require NRAM to make the changes Mrs M suggests. This 
includes its complaint  handling processes. 
I think its reasonable for Mrs M to worry about  being liable for a loan she wasnt  aware had 
been taken out and about the checks made by NRAM. And whether her late husband acted 
alone or with a third party, I can understand this wasnt an easy  matter  for Mrs M to deal 
with. I think its right for NRAM  to compensate  her for this. Ive also taken into account  that 
Mrs M decided not to report the matter to the police. And that she had legal advice, after 
which she decided not to pursue the matter  in court. 
Ref: DRN35021033Overall, I think £250 compensation for the upset caused to Mrs M is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order NRAM Limited to pay £250 to Mrs M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3502103