K820x#14Complaint
Mr D and Mrs N are unhappy  with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) 
decision to pay another drivers claim against his car insurance  policy.
Background
Mrs N is a named driver on Mr Ds policy. In February 2018, Mr D received a call from LV to 
say that theyd received a claim from another drivers insurer. The other drivers insurer  said 
someone driving his car had been  involved in an incident which  had caused  damaged  to the 
other drivers  car. 
Mr D didnt think he or Mrs N had been  involved. LV sent an engineer  to look at Mr Ds car, 
the engineer noted some  damage to the car which he said was consistent  with the damage 
to the other drivers car. Mr D says the damage had been there since  he bought the car. 
LV also spoke to a witness who, they said, gave a description which matched Mrs N, as 
being the driver of Mr Ds car at the time of the incident. Given the information  they had LV 
didnt think they could show it was most likely  Mrs N wasnt responsible for the accident if the 
case went to court, so they settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis. 
Mr D didnt think it was fair for LV to rely on the description given by the witness.  And Mr D 
isnt happy that LV have  taken the decision to settle  claim  against his policy and that they 
didnt keep him updated about what was happening. 
Our adjudicator considered Mr D and Mrs Ns complaint. He thought LV had handled the 
claim fairly  taking into account all the information  they had available. Mr D said he wanted 
the complaint  reviewed  by an ombudsman so its been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  LV have 
treated Mr D and Mrs N unfairly. I realise  theyll be disappointed but Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions  of the policy say that LV have total control  to conduct, defend or 
settle a claim. And its not my role to decide  if Mrs N was involved  in the accident but to 
consider whether LV have dealt with the claim against her   fairly and reasonably. So Ive 
looked at what  LV did, the information they had about what had happened  and the reasons  
theyve made the decision  they have. 
I can see theyve taken  into account  what Mr D has told them  when they spoke to him about  
the incident.
Mr D thinks LV made their decision  to settle the claim  against him straight away  without any 
investigation. This is because they told him in the first call that theyd likely  settle  the claim 
based on the description of the driver and if the engineers report found damage consistent 
with the incident that had been  described.  I dont think its unreasonable for LV to have said 
this and I dont  think it means theyd  already  made a decision  I think its most likely  they 
were trying to manage Mr Ds expectations  and give him an idea of what  the outcome might  
be. 
Ref: DRN35320072Initially Mr D told LV that he and Mrs N would have been at work  at the time of the incident 
and that the car would have been  parked at their home. But he later said that Mrs N had 
been in the area where the accident happened, but only very briefly and hadnt been  
involved in the incident. So I think there have been  some inconsistencies  in his account of 
what might  have happened.  
LV sent an engineer to inspect Mr Ds car. And Ive seen this report and the photographs 
taken of the car. It was the engineers  view that the damage to the car was consistent  with 
the damage to the other drivers car. And I dont  think it was unreasonable for LV to rely on 
that report. LV have also considered the photographs of the damage to the other  drivers car 
 which  I also find reasonable in the circumstances. 
LV also spoke to an independent witness who was present at the time of the incident.  She 
said shed seen Mr D and Mrs Ns car reverse into the other drivers car when it was parked 
in the car park. The witness also described  the driver and LV thought this description 
matched the description of Mrs N. The witness also provided a photograph  of Mr D s car 
leaving the scene  of the incident. 
Ive thought about the description provided  by the witness. I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for LV to rely on this and although Mr D initially said his car wouldnt have been in the area at 
the time the incident occurred, he later agreed that the description  given  by the witness  
could have been his wife. And that his wife had driven the car to the area in question,  albeit 
only for a few minutes. The witness also provided a photo that was taken at the time  this 
clearly shows  the registration number of Mr Ds car as set out in the policy  documents. Given  
all this information, I think it was reasonable for LV to conclude they probably wouldnt be 
able show it was most likely Mrs N hadnt been  involved. 
Mr D has mentioned on several occasions he was concerned that LV hadnt done  anything 
to satisfy themselves  this wasnt  a fraudulent claim.  But LV have responded to say they dont 
have any fraud concerns  in relation to this claim  and I dont  think, based on what Ive seen, 
thats unreasonable. I say this because theyve seen evidence  of the damage to the other 
drivers car, inspected Mr Ds car and spoken  to an independent witness.  
Mr D is particularly unhappy  that he asked to be kept updated about the claim and that he 
wanted to talk to LV before any decision was made. I cant see that LV tried  to  get in touch 
with Mr D before it told him itd made  its decision to settle the claim. I see why Mr D wanted  
them to discuss it with him first and, based on the notes theyve provided it seems  they did 
tell Mr D they would call him to discuss the outcome. 
But I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of Mr D and Mrs Ns complaint. I say 
this because the terms allow LV to conduct the claim  which means it was up to them  to 
decide how to settle it. And in the circumstances, even if they had called Mr D first, I dont 
think this wouldve changed  the decision they ultimately made. 
Taking into account all the information  it had, I think LV settled  the claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. LV have also confirmed 
they settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis which  means Mr D and Mrs N can pursue 
this themselves without  LVs involvement if they want to.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN35320073Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3532007