K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont  pay the cost of reinstating their 
driveway following  their home  insurance claim for accidental  damage to underground  
services.
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs S made a claim to AXA in respect of a leak from a pipe 
underneath their driveway. AVXA sent out contractors to inspect the damage. They  were  
then told by their local water company that it would replace the leaking  pipes  free of charge, 
but wouldnt pay for the cost of reinstating the driveway. Mrs S checked  with AXA who told 
her she would be covered  for that cost under the trace and access  part of the policy.
Mr and Mrs S went ahead with the repair. They were advised by contractors that the whole 
driveway would need  replacing. They had a quote for £6,500 for this work. AXA then told 
Mr and Mrs S that this cost wouldnt be covered as the trace  and access  had already been  
completed. AXA then reviewed the matter and said the damage was covered as part of the 
trace and access. It sent out its contractors who advised that the part of the drive  that was 
damaged would cost £396 to repair. The policy excess  was £300 so it offered a cash 
settlement of £96. It paid £50 compensation for misinforming Mr and Mrs S about  the policy 
coverage.
Mr and Mrs S obtained a new quotation just for the damaged part of the drive  of £2,820. 
AXA would not pay that amount either.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that AXA should pay the revised  quote  under 
the trace and access cover in the policy which would include reinstatement of the damaged  
drive. AXA objected to this as it said the trace and access was completed and the cost was 
for renewal to the pipe. It would cover  those costs if economical but referred back to its cash  
settlement. This represented the cost it would have paid to trace and access  the leak.
Our investigator then said the claim should be paid under the accidental damage  cover and 
proposed that AXA appoint  its contractors  to carry out the proposed repair. AXA disagreed  
as it wouldnt pay the cost of completing  other  contractor's  work.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim in respect  of a leak under their driveway. The cost of tracing and 
accessing the leak comes  under the accidental damage to underground services part of the 
policy, which includes drains and pipes.
Mr and Mrs S opted to take advantage  of the free repair/replacement of the damaged  
pipe/drain by their water  company.  While  it hasnt  been established whether there was 
actually accidental damage, AXA has confirmed  that the cost to repair  the drive  was covered 
by the trace  and access part of the policy. And it accepts that it would  cover  the cost of 
repair where economical to do so. I think its fair to say that this means that where a repair 
is likely  to cost as much as trace and access it will cover the repair.
Ref: DRN33789332AXAs contractors have  confirmed, after inspecting  the damaged drive that they could repair 
it for the sum of £396 (less the excess). As I understand  it, AXA wont  send out its 
contractors to complete  another contractors  work.  But frequently trace  and access might be 
done by one contractor (eg a plumber) and the reinstatement carried  out by another.  I dont 
see that the situation is any different here. AXA has raised in its response issues about  
remedying another contractors defective  work.  But I dont see that was previously alleged 
here. AXAs contractors  have seen the damage and provided an estimate for their cost to 
repair the damaged  part of the driveway.
So I think AXA should, as our investigator has proposed, carry out the proposed repair  to the 
driveway. If its unable/unwilling to do this then it should pay Mr and Mrs S £2,820 (net of any 
excess) to settle the claim.
I think the compensation paid of £50 in respect  of misinforming Mr and Mrs S is reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to carry out the repairs to 
Mr and Mrs Ss driveway following the repair/replacement of the pipework/drain. If its unable 
or unwilling to do this it should pay Mr and Mrs S £2,820 in accordance  with their quote to 
settle the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3378933