K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Billing Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss H under  a hire purchase agreement  with Billing Finance 
that she signed in March  2017. The car broke down in January 2018  and was recovered 
back to the dealer. It said that it wasnt liable for the cost of the required repairs.  Miss H took 
out a loan with a third party and used it to pay for the repairs.  She complained to Billing 
Finance but wasnt  satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Given  that Miss H 
had driven over 8,000 miles in the car and, taking  into account the age and mileage of the 
car, he didnt think that there was enough  information to show there was a fault with the 
timing chain when  the car was supplied to Miss H. So he didnt think that Billing Finance had 
acted unfairly.
Miss H has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that the cars  timing chain had been replaced before  the car was supplied to her 
but she wasnt given  anything to show that that had happened and that she only drove the 
car for 6,000 miles before  the chain snapped. She says that the garage that repaired the car 
says that its unlikely that a timing chain would  fail after only 6,000 miles and that the dealer 
hasnt denied putting a new chain on the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Billing Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Miss H was about eight  years old, had been  driven for about 46,500 miles and had a price  of 
£9,000. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Miss H in March 2017.  It broke down in early January 2018  nearly  
ten months later. The break-down report shows that its mileage at that time was 54,074 
miles  so Miss H had been  able to use the car to drive about 7,500  miles in that time. 
Miss H paid a garage to recover the car back to the dealer. The garages  invoice  says that a 
timing jump  was suspected and it noted that Miss H had said that a timing chain had been 
fitted less than 6,000 miles ago. 
The dealer  said in an e-mail to Miss H in February  2018 that: considering the mileage  you 
have travelled in the vehicle since purchasing it and the time period that has elapsed  since 
then that it is highly unlikely that the failure  was due to the incorrect fitting of the timing  
chain; and that information had been extracted  from the ECU that suggested a lack of oil 
Ref: DRN30096742pressure. It said that the engine  had been  partially stripped by another  garage after it had 
failed and that the partially stripped engine was then returned to it.
The timing  chain was sent to its manufacturer for analysis. It said that the timing chain had 
been in service since March 2017 and that the mileage covered was 9,215. But it said that, 
after analysing the belt, no manufacturing  defect could  be found. 
Its clear that theres been a problem with the engine. But the car broke down nearly ten 
months after the car was supplied to Miss H and in that time she was able to drive  it for 
about 7,500 miles. The cars timing chain  had been replaced before the car was supplied  to 
Miss H but its been tested and no fault has been  found. Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that the car was faulty when it was supplied  to Miss H. And I dont 
consider that its likely that Miss H wouldve been able to drive 7,500  miles in the car over a 
ten month period if it hadnt been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to her. If there  
had been a fault with the cars engine or timing belt when it was supplied  to her I consider it 
to be reasonable  to expect that the engine wouldve failed sooner than it did. 
I sympathise with Miss H for the issues that shes had with the car and because of the repair  
costs that shes incurred. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. So I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require Billing  Finance  to reimburse Miss H for those repair  
costs, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009674