K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2004. The policy covered Mr M only. Mr M and Miss D say National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr M and Miss D and NatWest a provisional  decision on 15 February 2019  to explain 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold the complaint.  An extract from my provisional decision is set 
out below:
When selling the PPI, NatWest had to make it clear to Mr M and Miss D that they had a 
choice about it. But Mr M and Miss D say they were led to believe the PPI was part of a 
health insurance policy and that they had to have it in order  to get the mortgage.
2004 sale
Mr M and Miss D first took out PPI with a mortgage in 2004. NatWest  has sent us a copy  of 
their mortgage application  form, which included a section  on PPI showing  the level of cover 
and benefit amount Mr M and Miss D had selected  and that Mr M would  be covered by the 
policy. Mr M and Miss D signed the application  form to say they agreed with it.
NatWest has also sent us a copy of a direct debit mandate to pay for the PPI. This also 
shows the level of cover and benefit  amount of the PPI and was signed  by Mr M and Miss D. 
And NatWest has sent us a copy of the mortgage offer letter, which says Mr M and Miss D 
have instructed NatWest  to arrange PPI.
Ive not seen anything in any of the documents I have, including  the policy  summary  leaflet  
Mr M has specifically  highlighted, which suggests the PPI policy  is part of a health insurance 
policy. The summary  leaflet says you dont need to have a medical to take out PPI, but I 
dont think this suggests the PPI is part of a health  insurance policy.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that NatWest did make it clear  to Mr M and 
Miss D that they had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr M and Miss D chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt  have to.
2007 sale
Mr M and Miss D took out further  borrowing on their mortgage  in 2007, and amended the 
PPI policy  to cover these increased  monthly  repayments.
Mr M and Miss D have said they dont  remember the policy being amended in 2007 and 
dont have any record of it. NatWest has sent us a copy of the mortgage quotation for the 
further borrowing. And this shows that PPI has been added, says that it is optional and 
shows how much  it will cost.
Based on this, I think its likely that the PPI was amended  to cover their increased  
repayments and that NatWest  made  it clear to them again that it was optional.
Ref: DRN38321702both sales
I havent seen  clear evidence that NatWest gave Mr M and Miss D any personalised advice  
about the PPI. And so I dont think it recommended the PPI to them.  This means  NatWest  
didnt have to check if the PPI was right for Mr M and Miss D. But it did have to make sure 
they got the information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr M and Miss D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like Mr M was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
The policy could also have paid out for longer  than Mr M and Miss D have told us Mr M 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on any 
savings they had to make their repayments if Mr M wasnt  earning. So it would  have been  
useful for them  if something went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr M and Miss Ds property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their mortgage  repayments. So I think they couldve 
found the protection the policy  offered  appealing. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr M and Miss D off taking it out.
Mr M and Miss D have said that they didnt make  a claim  when  Mr M wasnt  working and that 
NatWest didnt mention  the PPI policy as a possible solution when discussing their financial 
difficulties. But, as I explained above, I think NatWest made  it clear  to Mr M and Miss D that 
they had PPI. And I dont think Mr M and Miss D not remembering about the PPI several 
years after the sale means they didnt know they had it at the time of the sale.
If Mr M and Miss D now want to make a retrospective claim on the PPI policy,  they should  
contact NatWest about this directly.
Mr M and Miss D have also said that their mortgage  payments  increased  so the PPI wouldnt 
have covered their full repayments. And that they had a tracker  mortgage which allowed 
them to take payment breaks. But NatWest didnt  have to make  sure the policy  continued to 
be right for them after it was sold. After the policy was sold, it was Mr M and Miss Ds 
responsibility to check  that it continued  to be right for them. And the policy wouldve allowed 
them to keep paying and reducing their mortgage if Mr M wasnt  earning, rather  than 
stopping payments and possibly  incurring  additional interest.
And Mr M and Miss D have said theyve made  successful PPI complaints about other loans 
and credit cards, so they think  this complaint should be successful too. But the Financial  
Ombudsman Service looks  at each complaint on its individual  circumstances.  And, as Ive 
explained above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold here.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr M and Miss D paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr M and Miss Ds PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr M and Miss Ds commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think NatWest treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay Mr M and Miss D back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN38321703I said Id consider any further information  Mr M and Miss D or NatWest sent me.
NatWest said it didnt  have anything further to add. Mr M and Miss D raised a number of 
points, which  I will address below.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the further points 
Mr M and Miss D raised,  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Ds case.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr M and Miss D again  said that they were led to 
believe the PPI was compulsory. They also said they never  received  any paperwork for the 
PPI apart from the direct debit mandate.
I understand Mr M and Miss D feel strongly  that they were led to believe the PPI was 
compulsory. But, where the evidence available  is incomplete or inconclusive,  I must make a 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened based  on the evidence I do have. 
Ive seen no other evidence that Mr M and Miss D were told they had to have  the PPI. And 
the evidence I have seen suggests the PPI was optional and that Mr M and Miss D made 
choices about  the type and level of cover  and who was to be covered by the policy. So, for 
the same  reasons I explained in my provisional  decision, I still feel its likely that NatWest 
made it clear  to Mr M and Miss D that they had a choice about the PPI in both 2004 and 
2007.
I also said in my provisional decision that the information NatWest  gave  Mr M and Miss D 
about the PPI may not have been  as clear  as it shouldve been, but that I still felt the PPI 
would have been useful to them. So, even if Mr M and Miss D werent given the full terms of 
the policy, I didnt  think theyd lost out as a result  of this at the sale.
Mr M and Miss D also raised that NatWest never told them  they didnt need to keep the PPI 
during any of their annual  financial reviews.  But, as I explained in my provisional decision, 
NatWest didnt have  to make sure the policy continued to be right for Mr M and Miss D after 
it was sold. And if Mr M and Miss D are unhappy with advice they received in an annual 
financial review, they should  raise  this with NatWest directly.
I said in my provisional decision that if Mr M and Miss D wanted to make  a retrospective 
claim on the PPI they should contact NatWest about it directly. Mr M and Miss D have  raised 
further points  about  this, but this complaint is about  the selling of the policy,  so I cant 
consider any subsequent  claims  on the policy any further.
As neither Mr M and Miss D or NatWest raised  any points about the other conclusions in my 
provisional decision, I still think they are correct and for the same  reasons.
Mr M and Miss D also made some  points about the general culture at NatWest. And I have 
considered what  theyve said. But the Financial  Ombudsman Service  deals with each 
complaint individually and based  on its own circumstances.  Ive explained above why I dont 
Ref: DRN38321704think the PPI was mis-sold in this case.  And I dont  think  the points raised about NatWests  
general culture are sufficient to change these conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3832170