K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about end of contract  charges when he terminated his agreement  with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
background
In February 2017  Mr W was supplied with a new car and entered into a hire agreement  with 
VWFS.
The car was delivered  from the dealership to Mr Ws home address which was a distance  of 
approximately 241 miles.
When Mr W returned the car in 2019  VWFS asked him to pay excess mileage charges. 
Mr W is unhappy that the excess mileage charges include the 241 miles incurred  when the 
car was delivered to him.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was nothing  in the agreement 
that said whether  or not delivery miles should be included when considering excess mileage 
charges. The investigator felt that it was fair for delivery mileage to be included  because the 
car was always going to have made  the journey from the dealership  to Mr Ws home 
address, whether it was delivered or whether Mr W collected it.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that if he had purchased  the car he would have purchased it from 
a local dealer. But because he had hired the car he had no control over the geographical 
location of the supplying  dealer. Mr W said hed leased several cars in the past and delivery 
mileage had never been included in the contract mileage. He said the fact that the delivery 
driver had noted the delivery mileage  was indicative that the contract  didnt begin until he 
took delivery of the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ws concern that he doesnt want to pay for mileage that he hasnt 
completed. Ive seen  other agreements where  delivery mileage is excluded,  so I dont 
necessarily disagree with Mr W when he says that hes had agreements in the past where 
delivery mileage isnt part of the contract  mileage.
In this case, the hire agreement says theres an annual mileage limit of 8000 miles and a 
maximum limit of 16,000  miles. However,  theres  nothing in the agreement which excludes 
delivery mileage,  which is a term Id need  to see in order to be able to uphold  this complaint.
The contract starts when  the hire agreement is signed. The delivery  mileage in this case was 
incurred after the contract started. Theres nothing  in the contract which  says that delivery 
mileage is excluded. Because  of this, Im unable to say that VWFS has acted unfairly by 
including delivery  mileage in the excess mileage.
Ive noted Mr Ws concerns about standard practice  in the lease car industry.  But Im only 
able to determine this complaint on the basis  of the contract and any other relevant 
documents. And in this case,  the contract doesnt  exclude delivery  mileage.
Ref: DRN32716222I appreciate the points  which  Mr W makes but ultimately, unless the agreement  excludes 
delivery mileage,  the customer is responsible for all mileage incurred from the start of the 
contract, which is when  the contract is signed.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3271622