K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr C initially said he was unaware PPI had been  added to his account  and thought  it was 
added without his knowledge or consent. After our adjudicator sent Mr C the assessment of 
the case, Mr C responded saying that he signed  for the policy because he needed the credit  
card and thought  if he left any box unsigned  he wouldnt get the card.
BoS gave me a copy of the signed credit agreement. This looks like a postal application, as 
Mr Cs address was printed onto the page and it asked for it to be returned in the enclosed  
envelope. There was a separate section for PPI and credit care. This had both a yes and 
no option for PPI and in my opinion, both options were equally prominent.  I can see Mr C 
signed in the yes box to agree to take out the policy. And the additional card holder signed  
in the no box to confirm she didnt want the policy. Mr C didnt tick the box for credit care   
so I think he was aware he could decline products if he didnt want  them.  
Looking at the PPI section,  I think it was clear that Mr C was signing to agree to take out the 
PPI policy, and that he could sign in the no box to decline it if he didnt want it. So, on 
balance, I think BoS made it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
Mr C wouldve received  six months  at full pay followed  by six months at half pay if he was 
sick. And he had some  savings available to him at the time of the sale. But the policy 
couldve covered  him if he was too ill to work, had an accident or was made  redundant until 
the balance was repaid or he was ready  to go back to work, whichever came  first. And that 
wouldve been in addition to his sick pay. So I think he couldve found it useful. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN36793602But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr C about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3679360