K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
background
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage  which commenced in 1992.  Its not clear  exactly  when, but at 
some point between  taking out the mortgage  and 2001 they were sold a regular premium  
MPPI policy. The policy was taken out in Mrs Ws name only and wouldve  covered 
repayments on the mortgage if Mrs W couldnt  work due to accident or sickness or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as based on the paperwork hed 
seen he thought it suggested they wouldve understood  the policy was optional  and thought 
it wouldve  provided a useful benefit.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They say they didnt need the policy  and werent aware they had it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The sale took place  over 25 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs W say the MPPI was sold during a meeting  at a branch of Halifax.  Halifax 
havent been able to confirm this or been able to give me any of the main documents from 
the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about MPPI  or how it was 
presented.
The only document I have seen is a letter from 2001  advising  that their policy  has been 
renewed for a further five years  and enclosing the insurance  schedule.  The schedule  
confirms the policy was taken in Mrs Ws name only to cover a mortgage which commenced 
in 1992. Mr and Mrs W were  jointly  responsible  for their mortgage  and both working. I think 
this suggests  a choice was made about if they wanted MPPI and who would be covered.
The policy was also stand  alone and completely separate  from their mortgage which was 
provided by another business.  So to take out the policy Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to fill in 
a separate application form. 
So on balance  based on the information  I have  I think  its likely  Mr and Mrs W wouldve 
understood MPPI was separate from the mortgage and they chose  to take cover in Mrs Ws 
sole name. I havent seen  anything that shows me that the policy  wasnt presented  as 
Ref: DRN34414882optional, so overall I cant say that its likely  that Halifax  didnt  make  Mr and Mrs W aware 
that they had a choice in taking out the policy.
Halifax hasnt been able to confirm whether the policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs W. 
So to be fair to them I will treat the sale as if it was an advised  sale. What this means is that 
Halifax not only had to provide information  about  MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way so that Mr and Mrs W could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to 
make sure that if it were  to recommend MPPI  that the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws 
needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs W for the following reasons:
Mrs W was eligible  for the policy.
Mrs W has told us she suffered from a pre-existing  medical  condition  (PEMC). PEMCs 
were excluded  from cover under the policy. But Mrs W has also told us her PEMC  didnt 
affect her day to day living and she had never had any significant  time off work because  
of it. So I dont  think this wouldve  stopped  her from taking  the policy and it doesnt look 
like she wouldve been caught by any of the other main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of a policy of this type which couldve made it difficult  to make  a successful 
claim.
Mrs W says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and they had savings they could 
use to make their mortgage payments if she couldnt work. But a successful claim on the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits or savings and for potentially longer 
if Mrs W was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs W at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.
I also need to consider  whether Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs W information  in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Halifax did give all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs W have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think  they wouldve still taken out 
the MPPI  policy if theyd  been given all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Mrs W arent  worse  off as a result of any wrong doing by Halifax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against  
Bank of Scotland plc.
Ref: DRN34414883Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3441488