K822xcomplaint
Mr D says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  MYJAR provided  to Mr D between March 
2018 and June 2018. Mr Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Principal 
AmountHighest 
monthly 
repayment*
1 22/03/2018 30/03/2018 3 £150 £74
2 07/05/2018 20/06/2018 6 £925 £288
3 21/06/2018 outstanding 6 £925 £276
*Please note these figures  have been rounded down
Mr D has said had MYJAR  completed all the checks they should have done  then they would 
have seen evidence  of Mr Ds poor financial situation  and so should not have given him 
any of the loans.  MYJAR has said it completed appropriate and proportionate affordability 
checks and so the loans were  affordable.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint in part and thought loan 3 shouldnt have been 
given. MYJAR disagreed  with this. Mr D also disagreed and said all the loans should  be 
upheld. So the complaint  has now been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN35807502the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
MYJAR has said it carried out detailed checks before  agreeing to lend to Mr D. It says it 
asked Mr D about his employment status, income and monthly  expenses. As well as using
its own credit scoring to decide whether  the loans were affordable.
MYJAR asked for Mr Ds monthly  income,  which he said was £2,000. It asked for his 
monthly expenditure, which  was rounded to £997.
For the first two loans,  I agree with the adjudicators reasoning as to why MYJAR didnt 
make an error by providing  these loans. Ill explain why. 
MYJAR could only make  its decision based on the information it had available  at the time. 
And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr D, I dont  think  it had 
reached the stage  where there  was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mr D. 
In these circumstances, I dont think MYJAR  needed  to take further  steps to verify  the 
information provided.
There also wasnt anything in the information  MYJAR gathered  up to this point to give it 
cause for concern that either the loan wasnt affordable or unsustainable for Mr D in any 
other way. MYJAR  relied on the information  it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Ds declared income and outgoings I think  that this 
wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loans 1 
and 2. 
However, I dont think proportionate  checks were  carried  out before loan 3 was approved.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 3 would most likely  have shown  
that Mr D was having trouble in managing his money. It was clear  from Mr Ds monthly 
Ref: DRN35807503outgoings that he was spending a lot of his monthly  income on repaying other short-term 
loans. Ive seen  that Mr D already had a number  of existing short-term credit  commitments 
when he applied for loan 2 and that by the time he asked  for loan 3, he was repaying other 
high-cost creditors. It was clear from this that Mr D wasnt using  these high-cost loans to 
deal with a short-term cashflow problem. So, in these  circumstances,  MYJAR  ought to have 
realised it was unlikely  Mr D wouldve been able to sustainably repay  loan 3  and any 
subsequent loans. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 3 and MYJAR should put things right as set out 
below.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
It isnt clear from the information  provided to us by MYJAR whether the final loans
outstanding balance has been  sold to a third party. If the loan hasnt been sold then the
redress below can be carried out as described.
However, if MYJAR has sold the outstanding  balance to a third party then it should buy the
final loan back and then carry  out the redress below. If MYJAR isnt able to buy the loan
back then it needs  to make sure what it carries  out has the same  effect  as below.
A) MYJAR  should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr D towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance.
B) MYJAR  should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by Mr D
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MYJAR should remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr D as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr D having made
overpayments then MYJAR should refund  these  overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans (and any principal written-off
under a redress scheme  if applicable). If this results in a surplus then the surplus should
be paid to Mr D. However  if there  is still an outstanding  balance  then MYJAR should try to
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D.
E) MYJAR  should remove any adverse information MYJAR has recorded on Mr Ds credit 
file in relation  to upheld loans, and if MYJAR  has sold the debts ask the debt purchaser to do 
the same. MYJAR should ensure any loans  MYJAR  have sold are not reported more  than 
once on Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN35807504For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3580750