K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 on a 
mortgage. Mr L says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  him the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP  can be made  up of three  different elements  MPPI,  life cover and critical 
illness cover.  But Mr L has complained  about the PPI element and so thats what  Ill consider 
in my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
Mr L says he was unaware hed taken out PPI and so it was added without his knowledge.  
Halifax doesnt have  any of the paperwork from the sale. This isnt surprising or unusual  
given that the sale took place over 15 years  ago. So Ill consider the information I do have, 
and what we know about these particular sales. 
Ill also mention that where theres not conclusive evidence, I will make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened   the balance of probabilities. 
Halifax has shown this service examples of the paperwork that was likely used in these 
types of sales at that time. So based  on that I think,  on balance,  Halifax most likely made it 
clear that Mr L didnt have  to take out the PPI  and importantly given the nature of his 
complaint, that he chose  to take it out. 
Halifax has also given me screenshots taken from its internal systems. And on one of them  
in particular I can see a number of questions were  asked  about the policys suitability for 
Mr L. These questions have been answered  which suggests a detailed discussion about the 
PPI took place with the advisor. So because of that, I still think its most  likely he chose to 
take out PPI. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN38854012Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what hes have said about his 
employee sick pay benefits, redundancy pay and help from friends and family. But the PPI 
wouldve meant he couldve  used  any other  funds for his living  costs.  And as well-meaning  
as friends and family are, theyre support cant be guaranteed.  
The PPI also gave  Mr L up to 24 months  cover  and ultimately it protected  his mortgage 
which was a big and long term commitment, secured on his home. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that the PPI was a monthly  premium   thats 
means it wasnt added on to the mortgage  as a one-off amount. And from my experience  of 
these types of policies, it was likely  paid for separately to the mortgage payment. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mr L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3885401