K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
after a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ss car was deemed to be beyond economical repair following an accident. Admiral  made 
him a settlement offer for the cars  market  value at the time of its loss. But Mr S said this 
wouldnt allow him to buy a like for like replacement. He didnt think Admiral had taken into 
account the cars optional extras. Admiral said it had offered the highest valuation provided  
by the motor trade guides.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought Admiral 
had made  Mr S a reasonable offer based  on the valuations provided by the motor trade 
guides and taking into account the cars  optional extras. 
Mr S replied  that he thought the cars options  should make a difference to the valuation.  He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral offered Mr S £29,485, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. Mr S said 
hed found similar cars to his own offered at higher prices. He thought  his car was worth 
about £38,000.
The adjudicator has explained this services  approach to car valuations  in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Admiral said it had paid Mr S the market value of his car at the time of its total loss. So Ive 
checked the valuations provided  by the motor  trade  guides for Mr Ss car at the time of its 
loss. These  have taken  into account  the cars optional extras and unfortunately they did not 
make a difference. 
I can appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr S as his car was only seven months  old at the 
time of its loss. But our approach is to rely on the motor  trade  guides  so as to be fair to all 
parties. I cant  hold Admiral responsible for the depreciation in the cars value since  its 
purchase. I can see that Admirals offer was higher than any of these guide valuations.  So I 
think it was fair and reasonable and I dont  require it to increase this. 
Ref: DRN30273412Mr S provided details of cars similar to his own advertised at higher prices.  But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive  as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3027341