K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains about the short term loans she took out with CashEuroNet UK LLC trading 
as QuickQuid. Ms H says that the loan repayments led to her not being able to manage 
financially. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me  an ombudsman.  
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid, and Ms H, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Miss H 
agreed with what I had said. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with my provisional  decision.  It said that:
Ms H had a sound repayment history, and there was no discernible pattern in her 
lending. So it didnt  think  the lending itself showed that Miss H couldnt sustainably 
repay the loans
I hadnt provided any other detailed information  about why the loans werent  
affordable such as income and expenditure statements. In the absence  of this it 
thought the checks it made were proportionate and it was reasonable to say the 
loans were affordable.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I outlined in my in my provisional decision why I thought that Ms Hs pattern of lending was 
indicative of financial problems. I still think this is the case for the same  reasons I gave in my 
earlier decision. 
QuickQuid has pointed  to Ms Hs good  repayment  history. But Ms H was borrowing and 
repaying high amounts  over time without a break. I think this led to her having a hole in her 
finances so she needed to borrow again to cover this. So I think the lending pattern itself is 
evidence of her being  unable to sustainably repay  these loans. 
Ref: DRN38614782And given  this I dont  need to go in to detail about whether each loan was affordable or not 
(other than loan 3a). I dont think its necessary  given what  I think  about the amounts, and 
the length of time, that she borrowed. 
So I think Ms Hs complaint should be upheld for the same reasons as I outlined in my 
provisional decision. 
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms H paid on loans 3a to 6c;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 3a from Ms Hs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from 4 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 4 to 6c should be removed  from Ms Hs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Ms H still owes QuickQuid any of the principal  balance she borrowed on her final loan 
QuickQuid should  remove all the interest  and charges applied  to the outstanding balance. 
QuickQuid should  then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Ms H went to 
towards the principal.  But importantly, QuickQuid needs to make  sure that Ms H doesnt  
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Ms H hasnt repaid the principal she borrowed QuickQuid can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Ms H has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement.
And if QuickQuid no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms H.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Ms Hs complaint.
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38614783extract from my provisional  decision
background
Ms H took out 6 payday loans  between April 2017 and July 2018. Some of the information QuickQuid 
has given us is shown in the table at the end of this decision.  
QuickQuid has looked at Ms Hs complaint  and said that it shouldnt  be upheld. It said that it did 
appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these checks showed that the lending was affordable 
based on Ms Hs declared monthly income. It didnt think that Ms H was dependent  on short term 
lending
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Hs complaint and recommended that QuickQuid refund the 
interest and charges that she paid on loans 3a, 4c, 5a, 5b, 6a, 6b and 6c. QuickQuid didnt  agree with 
this recommendation  and so the case has come to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Ms Hs complaint. Having reviewed the 
evidence I have available  I think QuickQuid was wrong to have given  Ms H loans 3a to 6b. Ill explain 
why.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Ms H and QuickQuid  said. He thought Ms Hs complaint  
should be partially  upheld. He thought that it had made proportionate check  before approving loan 1. 
So he thought that QuickQuids decision to lend was reasonable. 
He didnt think  that QuickQuid had made proportionate checks for loans  2 to 6c. He thought  if it had 
then it wouldnt have agreed to lend Ms H money for loans 3a, 4c, 5a, 5b, 6a, 6b and 6c. This is 
because he didnt think that Ms H could afford the repayments. And QuickQuid wouldve  seen this 
had it completed better checks.  
QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its checks  or the 
affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded  to our 
adjudication saying:
 we are unable to agree that she should not have been provided  with these  loans based on the 
enhanced checks performed  prior to approving  this loan. Please note that in CashEuroNet  UKs initial  
response to FOS we provided detailed  information indicating why these loans were responsibly lent to 
Ms H. I have reattached  the entire lending  process including all the checks that we perform prior to 
lending, the screenshots of customer  applications as well as the sample acknowledgement from the 
contract that customers have to check when  their repayment  amount is greater  than their estimated  
disposable income
QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business  submissions  to us in which  it said:
We started implementing changes  to affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the changes 
were completed by Feb 28th 2015. Starting 1st March 2015 before Ms H borrowed her first loan, 
QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review that is consistent  with the FCA Handbook and that 
was in place at the time we received authorisation by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was 
conducted properly  and individually  for each of these loans
Ref: DRN38614784It provided further detail about the checks it had made  when it approved  loans from 2015 onwards in 
a document called CEU Lending Criteria and Proportional Checks. And this response didnt change  
our adjudicators opinion.
This Service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument  directly and through earlier final 
decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further here, though I have considered  it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. My decision will focus on the specifics of Ms Hs 
complaint and what both parties have said about this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Ms H borrowed the loans in question. Bearing  in mind the rules  
and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect QuickQuid to be conversant 
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Ms Hs complaint. Ms H didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about  
loans 1 to 3. Because  of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about  these loans. So I 
wont be making  a decision about them. But they were part of the borrowing  relationship Ms H had 
with QuickQuid. So they are something  I will take into account when considering  the other loans she 
took.
QuickQuid says: 
it recorded Ms Hs monthly income  as being £1,300 and it recorded her monthly  expenditure  
as £375 for loan 1 and £425 for the remainder
it validated the information it obtained using credit reference agency data
it used  the information it had gained from the credit  reports to adjust the amounts Ms H had 
provided for her other credit commitments. Ive noted that the credit check  information  led to 
it increasing this 
my provisional  findings  for loan 3a
Loan 3a was an increase to loan 3. It took the total amount borrowed to £650.  Ms H needed  to make 
two smaller repayments followed a higher repayment of just over £800 around two and half months 
after the loan started. 
QuickQuid said it recorded Ms Hs monthly disposable  income as just over £700. So this would mean  
that Ms H would need put money aside  on the earlier,  lower, loan repayments so she could make the 
final higher  repayment. It said that over the term she would have around £1,700  left over so she 
should have been able to do this. 
But I dont think it was reasonable  for QuickQuid to think that Ms H was putting money  aside  in this 
way. This is because  this was her third loan, and the fifth lending point in just over six months.  So I 
think its more  likely  that Ms H hadnt been  able to do this in her earlier  loans. And she was borrowing 
again to cover  the gap repaying the loans  had left in her finances.
Ref: DRN38614785And the amount  Ms H borrowed overall  was very high. The highest repayment  was over half of her 
declared income. This is a large amount to lend.  And I think, given what QuickQuid knew about Ms H, 
that it shouldve been aware that it was likely  she would struggle to repay this loan.  
So I dont think QuickQuids decision to approve loan 3a was reasonable and Im intending to uphold 
Ms Hs complaint about it. 
I havent recreated  individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans  4 to 6 because  I dont think  
that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided,  did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Ms Hs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of lending.  Ive looked to see if there was a point at which  
QuickQuid should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so QuickQuid should have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending. Given the 
particular circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say this 
because:
the amounts  Ms H was borrowing were  generally increasing.  After the increases to loan 4 
she borrowed over half of her income. As I said earlier she had already done this for loan 3. 
She continued to borrow high amounts in relation  to her income. So QuickQuid ought to have 
realised it was likely their indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
Ms H wasnt really reducing the amount she owed QuickQuid. There  were  no significant  
breaks in the lending  and she was in effect  paying large amounts of interest to service this 
debt over an extended  period
I think  that Ms H lost out because QuickQuid continued to approve loans from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing  her to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time
the sheer number of loans  (loans and deferrals)  was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Hs ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-
cost loans
So Im intending to uphold  Ms Hs complaint  about loans 4 to 6c because  the overall pattern of 
lending increased her indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and shes 
lost out as a result.
Ref: DRN38614786information on the loans Ms H took
loan 
numberdate  startedamount 
borrowedterm  (days)number  of 
repaymentsdate  ended
1 03/04/2017 £250 53 2
2 08/07/2017 £350 81 328/06/2017
2a 13/08/2017 £150 45 2
3 12/10/2017 £400 76 327/09/2017
3a 16/10/2017 £250 72 3
4 15/01/2018 £200 102 3
4a 19/01/2018 £200 98 3
4b 24/01/2018 £50 93 302/01/2018
4c 04/02/2018 £200 82 3
5 05/05/2018 £400 83 3
5a 15/05/2018 £250 73 316/04/2018
5b 20/05/2018 £150 68 3
6 14/06/2018 £50 71 3
6a 17/06/2018 £500 68 3
6b 23/06/2018 £100 62 304/06/2018
6c 12/07/2018 £150 43 2 outstanding
Ref: DRN3861478