K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that TSB Bank  plc made errors when calculating the amount they 
owed when they repaid their buy to let mortgage.  They ask that TSB removes  the charge 
from their property and pays them the credit  balance in their account.  
background 
Mr and Mrs T had a mortgage with TSB. They took out a product which said an early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  was payable if the mortgage was repaid before 31 March 2018.  
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs T contacted TSB about repaying the mortgage. TSB provided  a 
redemption statement for the mortgage  to be repaid on 1 April 2018. This didnt include the 
ERC. Mr and Mrs T repaid the mortgage in mid March 2018. This service has previously 
issued a decision that TSB was entitled to ask Mr and Mrs T to pay the ERC. 
Since then,  Mr and Mrs T say they received a statement from TSB saying nothing  was owed 
and their account had a credit of about  £150. However, TSB wouldnt remove the charge. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said 
Mr and Mrs T were  aware of the ERC  so they knew it was an error when they were told 
nothing was owed.  TSB accepted it had made errors. It re-calculated  the redemption  amount 
and said it wouldnt apply  interest to the amount owed. The adjudicator  said TSBs offer of 
£250 compensation, including  £100 for errors  with the settlement amount  was fair. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree. Mrs T said £150 of the compensation was for a different error. 
She said £100 isnt enough for the distress shed suffered and the various costs  involved in 
sorting it out. She said shed contacted TSB several times for an understandable settlement 
figure, which hasnt been  provided.  Mrs T said the statement  TSB had provided  to this 
service wasnt  understandable  and contained  errors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
This service issued a decision in October 2018 that TSB was entitled  to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
pay an ERC. Mr and Mrs T needed to know the amount outstanding on their account so they 
could settle the account. Mrs T says she didnt receive a response to her requests for a 
settlement figure. Then TSB said their account  was in credit  and confirmed this in writing.  
They then checked  their account  online to find they owed about £1,070. I appreciate  how 
frustrating this must have  been. 
TSB accepts it made errors. So I must consider what TSB should  now do to put matters 
right.
TSB checked its calculations and provided what it says is the correct amount owed. This is 
slightly more than the amount it asked Mr and Mrs T to pay in April 2018. TSB says it will 
Ref: DRN32733642accept the lower amount it asked for in April 2018. It says it wont  apply interest  to the 
amount owed. Mr and Mrs T paid the outstanding amount in January 2019. 
Mrs T says the mortgage statement provided by TSB isnt understandable. Shes concerned  
that the amount they paid in March 2018 isnt correctly recorded on the statement.  I think  the 
discrepancy shes concerned about  is because the mortgage had two sub accounts. The 
payment made by Mr and Mrs T was divided between the two sub accounts. 
Mrs T is also concerned that TSB credited a payment made in January 2019 to the account  
as at March 2018.  Its likely this is because TSB has offered to waive interest accrued 
between March 2018 (when the payment was due) and January 2019 (when the payment 
was made). But even  if it was an error,  it wouldnt cause financial loss to Mr and Mrs T. 
TSB checked its calculations and confirmed Mr and Mrs Ts account is now correct.  I havent 
seen anything to suggest this isnt right. So I dont think its reasonable to require TSB to re-
do the calculations  or send  further  statements to Mr and Mrs T. 
Mrs T says £150 compensation offered by TSB is for a different complaint. I see her point. 
The letter which makes this offer refers  to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about the redemption 
statement. But their other  complaint is upheld by TSB in that letter.  Its not clear that the 
compensation is for one or both of the complaints  referred to in the letter.
However, Id note that the ERC was due in March  2018 when the mortgage was repaid. TSB 
agreed not to apply  interest between March  2018 and the date the amount owed was paid.  
So Mr and Mrs T had use of this money   without paying interest  for some months. And 
TSB agreed  to pay £100 for the upset caused  by it not providing a correct  settlement amount 
when it was requested.  Overall, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank plc should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3273364