K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about delays, poor work quality and unwarranted charges on a new 
bathroom he financed  through  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi  Personal Finance 
(Hitachi Capital).
background
Mr G financed his new bathroom though  a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi  Capital. He 
was disappointed with the work that was done  by the supplier,  who Ill call company B, he 
said:
the work  started a day late
the house was left untidy and carpets were left dusty and dirty
the fitter left before the anticipated date of completion despite  completing the work to 
an inadequate standard
the bathroom door wasnt fitted in time
there were various issues  with the bathroom  fitting that needed rectifying i.e. shaver 
point and isolation switch location.
B apologised for the problems and carried out further work  to rectify the issues to Mr Gs 
satisfaction. They also offered the following compensation:
£120 for disruption, delay and inconvenience
£120 for time taken to facilitate  deliveries
£300 discount to allow fitter access to refit
£20 for unsubstantiated  phone calls
£130 towards carpet cleaning
£80 towards jet washing front pavement
But Mr G didnt think B had gone far enough and in particular he didnt  think  the contribution  
to carpet  cleaning was sufficient to cover the cost. So he complained  to Hitachi  Capital who 
he said, as the finance providers, were  jointly responsible for any breach  of contract.
Hitachi Capital didnt  get back to Mr G in time so he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that Hitachi Capital were  jointly responsible for any breach of 
contract by the supplier. So she said if she was persuaded  B hadnt  done enough to rectify 
the breach of contract  they had with Mr G she could ask them to do something about it. But 
here, she understood that B had now completed  the bathroom to Mr Gs satisfaction and that 
there were no outstanding  issues. So she couldnt  say there was now a breach Hitachi  
Capital needed  to attend to. She noted  that Mr G had suggested there  may be parts hed 
paid for but not received  but she hadnt been  provided with any further  information  about that 
and she also noted that despite Mr Gs assertion that carpet  cleaning  would cost more than 
the £130 hed been offered   he hadnt  provided  any alternative quotes  for her to consider.  
She explained that B had said it would  consider  these costs anyway; if Mr G provided them  
with the quotes.  She explained that whilst she could look at any breach of contract that the 
finance funded, she wasnt able to look at a service complaint against B as that wasnt  
Hitachi Capitals responsibility.  She thought overall,  that Hitachi  Capitals actions had been 
reasonable.
But Mr G disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN34188142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read about the problems Mr G has experienced.  I can well understand that this 
has been an unsettling  and frustrating experience for him. I know  hell be disappointed but I 
agree with the investigators view of his complaint. Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole with certain types 
of credit,  as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  
circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Im persuaded that there was a breach of contract here as B has apologised for the standard  
of work theyve completed and have offered Mr G compensation for their failings.  Im also 
persuaded that the work is now completed  to an acceptable standard. As Mr G hasnt 
provided any further evidence about the costs of carpet cleaning  or additional missing items, 
it would  be unreasonable for me to suggest the contract is still in breach.
Hitachi Capital are only jointly liable  for any breach of contract and, as theres  no longer a 
breach, I dont think it would be fair to ask them to take any further action. 
If Mr G is dissatisfied  with the service provided  by B and is unable to resolve  it with them,  he 
may be able to progress  his complaint  through the furniture ombudsman  who he can contact 
via this email address:  info@thefurnitureombudsman.org
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3418814