K822xcomplaint
Mr V says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. He says the loans were unaffordable  taking into account his income  and expenditure 
and his borrowing  history  would suggest he wasnt credit worthy. 
background
This complaint is about ten short-term  loans Sunny provided to Mr V between 
November 2017  and January 2018.  Mr Vs borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 11/11/2017 24/11/2017 6 £300.00
2 18/11/2017 06/12/2017 6 £300.00
3 25/11/2017 02/01/2018 6 £300.00
4 26/11/2017 02/01/2018 6 £200.00
5 15/12/2017 02/01/2018 6 £300.00
6 30/12/2017 02/01/2018 6 £150.00
7 13/01/2018 Outstanding 6 £300.00
8 14/01/2018 Outstanding 6 £300.00
9 27/01/2018 Outstanding 6 £300.00
10 31/01/2018 16/02/2018 6 £50.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Vs complaint.  They  thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. They also thought any information about borrowing from 
loan six would was adverse and said it should be removed from Mr Vs credit file.
Sunny disagreed but did offer to write off a balance  of £21.19  but that Mr V still owed 
£522.25. 
The offer was put to Mr V but he rejected it. 
Another of our adjudicators reconsidered  the complaint before it was passed to me. He 
agreed that loans  five to ten shouldnt  have been given but didn't think  Mr Vs credit file 
should be amended to the extent recommended by the previous adjudicator. He thought all 
information about Mr Vs borrowing should  only be removed  from Mr Vs credit  file for loan 
seven onwards and not for loan six. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision as an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN39836332Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr V could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr V could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr V didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. So I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr V had with Sunny.  So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint.
Ref: DRN39836333As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that Mr V:
was struggling to manage his finances. I say this because he had taken out four 
loans in the previous month, totalling £1,100. And some of these loans were taken 
out very shortly after a previous  loan was taken  loan one was paid off on 
24 November 2017, loan three  was taken the next day and loan four the day after 
that. Such  a rapid uptake in loans, I think,  should have signalled to Sunny that he 
was having problems and that it should  have looked  to build a bigger picture of his 
financial situation.
If it had done  so, it would have seen  that Mr V already had short-term lending from 
other providers so he had to service those loans as well as the borrowing  he had with 
Sunny. So, what  Sunny had understood to be Mr Vs financial circumstances may not 
have been correct. 
And Mr V had several  loans with Sunny that were  running at the same time. When he 
took loan two, loan one was still running,  and when he took loan three, loan two was 
still running. When he took loan four both loans  two and three were  still running. I 
appreciate Mr V repaid some loans  early and that would have  saved him interest  
charges. But the way in which he borrowed could equally have been a sign that he 
was borrowing further to repay his current debts. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr V, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Vs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr V was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr V had taken out seven loans in two months. So Sunny  ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr V was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Vs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Vs first loan was for £300  and loan seven was for £300.  And  while I appreciate 
he had taken less amounts  on two occasions - £200 and £150, at this point Sunny 
ought to have known that Mr V was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing  need.  
Mr Vs borrowing  pattern continued  from his earlier loans  he had taken four loans in 
November, two in December and was wanting more loans  in January. So there was a 
very quick uptake in further borrowing suggesting his borrowing was unsustainable. 
Mr V wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan ten was 
taken out two months after Mr Vs first. And while I appreciate this loan was for the 
smaller sum of £50, up until that point  the loans were mostly for £300, so Mr V had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
Ref: DRN39836334I think that Mr V lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Vs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans which Mr V borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Vs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans five to ten and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Vs loans  loans seven to nine  has been transferred 
to a third party. Sunny  should buy the loans back if it can. If Sunny cant buy the loans back  
then it needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:  
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr V towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by Mr V which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr V originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Mr V as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results  in Mr V having made  overpayments  then Sunny should refund  these  
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr V. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mr V. 
E) Remove any adverse information  recorded in Mr Vs credit file in relation to five 
and six.  
The number of loans  taken from loan seven onwards  means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans seven to ten should be 
removed from Mr Vs credit file. Sunny does not have to remove  outstanding loans 
seven to nine from Mr Vs credit file until these have been repaid, but any adverse 
information recorded about these  loans should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
Ref: DRN39836335 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr V a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Vs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3983633