K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the refusal  of a claim under his golf insurance policy with Royal & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
On 28 October 2018, Mr C went to play golf. He says he put his clubs into his motorised golf 
buggy and hit a few balls in the practice  nets before going into the pro-shop to pay for his 
round. Mr C says he had to leave  his clubs and buggy outside the shop. Mr C says there  
were a few people in the shop at the time and he had to wait to pay. When  he left, he 
realised his buggy was missing.  Mr C says he and the shop assistant searched the car park 
and other  areas but they couldnt find them. 
Mr C reported the theft to the police and made  a claim  under his policy  with RSA. 
RSA refused the claim, as it says the policy only covers the theft of clubs and other golf 
equipment while in the course of play, or en route to a golf club,  but Mr C wasnt in the 
course of play and had left his clubs unattended. RSA also said the buggy  isnt covered, as it 
is excluded from the definition of golfing equipment  in the policy.
Mr C is very unhappy with this. He wants his claim met and has also asked for compensation 
for being without  his equipment for so long, which  has meant  he has not been  able to play 
golf for some time which has significantly  affected  him. Mr C also says the buggy should  
have been covered. He had left it without  the keys and RSA has not explained why this is 
not covered. He could not have  left the buggy anywhere else.   
RSA later confirmed Mr C had paid for additional cover for the golf buggy but maintained  its 
refusal of the entire claim. It says the golf buggy  cover only covers  the buggy  for damage or 
loss or theft of Golfing Buggies stored in a securely locked building, garage or compound  
only subject to the building, garage or compound showing evidence of forcible  and violent 
entry. 
It also says there was an amendment to the policy terms which says it excludes:  
 Any theft from an unattended Vehicle unless the Golf Equipment  (other than Golfing 
Buggies) is kept out of sight in a locked boot or a covered luggage area,  all the Vehicles 
security devices are fully armed.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and recommended that it be upheld.  He 
considered that in the context of a specialist golf policy such  as this, RSA would need to 
make a significant exclusion such as the one relied on much clearer than it had. He therefore 
recommended that RSA reconsider the claim.
RSA does not accept the investigators assessment. It says the policy terms are clearly 
written, unambiguous and not unfair. RSA says Mr Cs claim falls foul of several  of the terms:  
Reasonable Care: You are required to take all reasonable care to protect yourself and Your 
Golf Equipment and to act as thoughYou are not insured.
 
Loss or theft of any Golf Equipment left unattended  [is excluded] unless the loss or theft 
shows evidence of forcible and violent entry/exit  to or from any premises,  security controlled  
club house, changing room or any securely  locked locker  or other  similar place of storage ... 
Ref: DRN31120212Loss or theft of any Golf Equipment left unattended in the open other than in the course of 
Playing Golf [is excluded] . 
RSA says Mr C left his expensive buggy and clubs unattended outside a shop. He was not 
playing golf at the time,  he was paying for his round; so each of the above apply to make  his 
claim fail. 
RSA says this is a core term of the policy and is clearly written, so is not subject to the test of 
fairness under the Unfair  Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations  1999.  But in any case, 
this is not unusual, onerous  or significant; such terms are common  to most household and 
golf policies. Even though  this is not significant or unusual term, the exclusion of golf 
equipment which is left unattended was brought to the attention of Mr C by way of the key 
facts document  provided to him, which complies with Ombudsman requirements  in relation 
to significant terms.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA apparently offers four levels of cover  from Bronze  to Platinum. Mr C chose the 
highest level of cover of a policy  branded  as a specialist golf club cover. 
The policy covers Mr Cs clubs and buggy  From the time You leave Your normal  or 
temporary Residence,  place of work or education,  whichever the later, to commence Your  
journey to, whilst  travelling to, during or travelling  from a Golfing Event, until returning to 
Your normal or temporary Residence, place  of work  or education after the Golfing Event, 
whichever the earlier,  excluding any theft from a Vehicle left unattended  at any time between  
the hours of 10 pm and 8 am, but always within the Territorial Limits defined in Your 
Insurance Schedule.  
A golfing event  is defined as playing or practicing golf at a recognised Golfing Venue or 
attending a golfing activity  as a spectator or guest .
The policy excludes:  
Theft of Golf Equipment when left unattended  in the open  other  than in the course of 
Playing Golf. 
Playing Golf is defined  in the policy as:
Being physically engaged in a continuous  round of golf or practice  session at a recognised
Golfing Venue.
RSA says Mr C was not actually playing golf at the time the clubs  were  stolen and so the 
claim is not covered.  
Mr C argues that he was in the course of play  he had left his home  and gone to the golf 
club, practised and was then paying his fee, all steps in the process of playing golf. I can see 
the force of Mr Cs argument. 
Ref: DRN31120213It would seem that Mr C would have been  covered while at the practice nets but the 
suggestion is that as soon  as his practice at the nets had finished, the cover ended  for the 
period he was paying hi fee in the shop and then would have restarted once he was on the 
course. This is a specialist insurance  product and is, from what  I have seen, marketed  to 
provide cover for golf equipment whilst  playing golf. Mr C had arrived  at the club,  spent some  
time practising and then went to register for a game. I dont think its reasonable to expect 
golfers to realise  that they would need  to load their equipment back  into their vehicle to 
register to play and then take them out again  to start playing. 
While I agree with RSA that a policy term excluding cover for items left unattended  is not 
inherently unfair, or unusual, I do not agree that it is not a significant term. The term restricts 
the cover  provided  considerably and is therefore significant. And given the nature of golf and 
the fact that golfers cant normally take their own equipment into the pro stores or the 
clubhouse, such a significant term would need to be sufficiently drawn to the consumers 
attention. 
It is mentioned in the Key Facts part of the policy, but I do not consider the full implications to 
have been outlined. It is then the seventh  of 18 exclusions set out in the golf equipment 
section of the policy. If RSA means  to cover  equipment only while on the actual golf course,  
then it could, in my opinion, make  this significant  restriction of cover  clearer  and more 
prominently positioned in the documentation,  so consumers  can know  how a policy will work 
in practice. 
Furthermore, as it is seeking  to rely on an exclusion RSA must  be able to show that Mr C 
has either failed to take reasonable care or, that having spent some time practising at the 
nets and then stopping and going into the pro store to register  and pay for his round, he was 
not physically engaged  in a continuous round of Golf or practice session. 
In my opinion, the narrow interpretation applied by RSA does not seem  fair or reasonable or 
in line with the cover the policy purports to provide as a whole. It is apparently  usual practice 
for players  to act in this way, leaving  their clubs outside the pro shop and then continue to 
play. It therefore seems to me that Mr C was reasonably deemed to have  been  still in the 
course of playing golf, or at a practise  session, at the time of the loss. 
Turning to the matter  of reasonable  care,  RSA must  show that Mr C both realised  that there 
was a risk of his clubs being stolen and that he failed to take reasonable steps to guard 
against the risk. I am satisfied that he would have appreciated the risk in leaving his clubs  
unattended, he says he parked as close as he could  to the pro shop and removed the keys.  
However, he could  not have  taken the buggy  or equipment  into the shop. I do not consider 
that this amounts to a lack of reasonable care.  
I therefore consider  that RSA should  proceed to consider  the claim for the golf equipment 
and the buggy. For the avoidance  of doubt, I am not stating that it needs to pay the claim 
only that it should proceed  to consider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms of 
the policy and cant reject it on the basis  the items were left unattended  or that Mr C didnt 
take reasonable care of them. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to proceed to 
consider the claim  for the buggy and clubs in line with the remaining terms of the policy. 
Ref: DRN31120214Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112021