K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Miss M complain that Nationwide Building Society is acting unfairly and 
unreasonably by asking them to pay more  money to pay off their mortgage.  They  want the 
money written off.
background
Mrs M and Miss M had a mortgage with Nationwide and wanted to pay it off in full. Mrs M 
said that she visited a Nationwide branch and was given a figure  to pay the mortgage off in 
full. She also said that she asked  if the amount would repay the mortgage  in full and was told 
that it would, and the figure was written  down for her. Mrs M paid the sum stated  and 
cancelled her direct debit. But Nationwide asked for another  £413.58 as it said it made a 
mistake. Mrs M and Miss M thought that Nationwide should pay for its error and write  off the 
money.
Mrs M and Miss M complained to Nationwide. It explained that the figure  given in branch 
assumed the direct  debit payment due in September 2018 would be paid  as Mrs M 
cancelled the direct debit, that direct debit wasnt paid. Nationwide accepted that it shouldve 
explained this to Mrs M and apologised. But it said that the money  was due and needed to 
be paid. Nationwide  also paid £200  compensation, which included compensation for staff 
congratulating Mrs M loudly on paying her mortgage.
Mrs M and Miss M complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that Nationwide shouldve  
explained to Mrs M about the need to pay the direct debit but legally it was entitled to the 
money required. He thought the compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M and Miss M disagreed. They said that they shouldnt  have to pay any more money 
and the compensation paid was only in connection  with staff congratulating Mrs M loudly on 
paying off the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making mistakes but to put the consumer back into the position  they shouldve  been in all 
along. 
In Mrs M and Miss Ms case, if Nationwide hadnt  given  an incorrect  redemption figure, they 
still wouldve owed the money required to pay the mortgage off in full under  the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage deed. The fact that Nationwides staff didnt explain that the next 
direct debit still needed to be paid doesnt change the fact that the money was owed.
But I agree  that the failure to explain that the direct debit due in September  2018 needed to 
be paid was unfair and unreasonable, and caused Mrs M and Miss M trouble and upset. The 
£200 compensation paid for trouble and upset  wasnt  just in respect of the staff 
congratulating Mrs M in branch, but also covered the failure to explain about the direct  debit.  
Nationwide made  that clear in its final response  letter, and in any event £200 is far more 
than I wouldve awarded for staff congratulating a customer, even loudly.
Ref: DRN32868212Having considered the evidence available to me, I think £200 compensation in total is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. Money  never truly compensates  for trouble and 
upset and I have  to consider this services guidance.  While Mrs M and Miss M undoubtedly 
were upset to find out that more money  was owed, based on what they have said,  their 
upset has been  increased by having  to pay the money that is legally  owed to Nationwide, 
which isnt something  for which I have  found Nationwide to be at fault  it is entitled to 
payment in full.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Miss M to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3286821