K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled the aftermath  of 
an accident under his motor policy, in which it held him at fault for the accident and that also 
increased his premium.
background
Mr F was turning left into a commercial premise. In order to do this he had to cross a bus 
lane. A motorcyclist using  the bus lane then collided with Mr Fs car.
UKI decided  it wouldnt  be successful in defending Mr Fs actions in court and consequently 
the accident was deemed  Mr Fs fault and as a consequence his premium increased  when it 
was due to be renewed.
Mr F was unhappy and felt UKI hadnt  taken  all the evidence into account. So he brought  his 
complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think UKI had done  anything wrong. Mr F didnt agree 
so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Its naturally very distressing to be involved  in an accident. Its also very distressing to be told 
its your fault when you sincerely believe it wasnt.  So I understand Mr Fs frustration and 
upset.
However, as the adjudicator explained this service doesnt decide who caused an accident. 
Our role is simply to assess  whether UKI here did all it ought to have  to have given its duties 
under Mr Fs insurance policy.  And I think it did. Its duties arent to ensure Mr F doesnt  have 
a fault claim on his insurance record if possible, its duties are to make a fair investigation into 
the circumstances of the incident and decide accordingly on the balance of probabilities. 
This is to ensure  needless costs arent wasted and to insure needless costs  arent  incurred.
As Mr F is aware  under  his policy, UKI has the right to take over and defend a case like this 
as it thinks fit. It naturally does this regularly as part of its duties when a claim  is made.
Mr F was turning across  a lane used by buses and motorcycles, and therefore, had a duty to 
make sure it was clear  before turning. So if something hit him whilst legitimately driving in 
that lane as what happened here, the presumption will always be against  Mr F. Mr F 
contends the motorcycle  was speeding or speeded up and he says he had a witness to 
prove this. But UKI tried to contact this witness to discuss things further and got no 
response. 
Mr F also thinks it should have obtained  the CCTV footage, but I agree  with UKI that it would 
be difficult in the absence of further  contact with the witness, for CCTV to give definitive 
evidence about  speed. 
Ref: DRN37210312In Mr Fs initial call with UKI reporting  the accident,  UKI said Mr F said he might  have turned 
on his indicator later than he might have done, so that indicates  that possibly the motorbike 
didnt have enough indication of Mr Fs intentions.
So taking all this into consideration, I dont consider UKI failed  to investigate the 
circumstances of this accident properly and I consider it came to an appropriate reasoned  
decision on whose fault the accident was. Therefore I dont think  UKI did anything wrong.
Unfortunately, having a fault claim on ones insurance records tends to increase premium  
amounts. Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they wish to insure and what to charge 
for those  risks. That can vary from insurer to insurer but once each insurer  treats  each 
customer with the same  history the same, I consider that fair and reasonable. Theres  no 
evidence that UKI treated Mr F any differently to any other customer with the same history.
Mr F has also complained about  UKIs handing  of the matter  and how it communicated with 
him throughout. UKIs  handling of this incident was no different to how almost every  insurer  
handles such incidents. Ive seen nothing to show that it wasnt progressing the matter  in the 
normal way. Its always distressing and upsetting to be involved in an accident, more 
especially if, as Mr F believes, that he wasnt at fault. But I remain of the view that UKI didnt 
do anything wrong  here.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3721031