K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as first direct) (HSBC) hasnt refunded
him after he was the victim of a scam. He thinks HSBC didnt do enough to protect him from
the scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of the key events here.
Mr R had some work done  by his builder. He received an email invoice that appeared to
be from his builder for the amount  he was expecting.  HSBCs records  show that on
29 October 2017 Mr R transferred £13,000 from his HSBC mortgage to his HSBC bank
account  and arranged through internet banking for a payment of £12,630 to be made on
31 October 2017 from his HSBC bank account  to the account  details hes said were
provided in the email  he had received. The payment  for £12,630 debited Mr Rs HSBC
account on 31 October 2017.
HSBC has said that Mr R contacted it the next day on 1 November 2017. Mr R said his
builder said he hadnt received the payment and that the invoice Mr R had been emailed was
correct apart  from that the bank details to send the payment  to which  had been changed. 
With an email  interception scam suspected,  HSBC  tried but was unable to recover  the funds 
from the bank the payment was sent to. And HSBC didnt agree to refund the payment to 
Mr R. Mr R remained unhappy and referred  his complaint to us.
An investigator here thought Mr Rs complaint  should be upheld. In summary,  the
investigator thought  there were several  things about  the payment  that should  have  caused
HSBC concern and that HSBC should  have contacted Mr R before it allowed the payment
through. The investigator thought this would have made a difference   that Mr R wouldnt
have lost his money  if HSBC had done this. They  recommended therefore  that HSBC  refund
to Mr R the transaction of £12,630,  pay interest  on this amount calculated  at 8% simple per
year, and pay Mr R a further  £200 for trouble and upset caused to Mr R.
HSBC didnt agree, so Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I sent Mr R and HSBC my first provisional  decision on 2 April 2020. This explained why I 
was intending  to uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct HSBC to pay Mr R £12,630 plus interest 
calculated at 8% simple per year, plus £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr R accepted my provisional  decision without providing further information  or comments.  
HSBC disagreed. There is no need  for me to set out here all of HSBCs arguments  in detail  
but in summary  HSBC:
considered I had applied too high a standard as to expectations on it at the time;
expressed concern  at the intended outcome  with respect  to its ability  to effectively  
operate a retail  banking service for all of its customers; 
argued that I didnt  appear to have considered contributory negligence on Mr Rs part;
Ref: DRN31610212disagreed with the intended outcome, and in any event, with the proposed 
compensatory interest rate of 8% simple  per year.  
I issued a second provisional decision on 26 August 2020. This explained in more detail why 
I was still intending  to conclude that: HSBC should  have contacted Mr R about  the payment  
before it allowed it through; that this would have prevented the scam; that a reduction in 
compensation for contributory negligence wouldnt be appropriate in this case; and why I 
was intending  to award the same compensation as previously  outlined except for a change  
to the interest  payable   a change from 8% simple per year, to £80.42 plus interest on 
£12,630 from 28 November 2017  to the date of settlement at the prevailing rate of Mr Rs 
Post Office  Online Saver account. 
Mr R has not made representations  in response  to the outcome  proposed  in my second  
provisional decision. It did come to light, however,  that Mr R received two emails regarding  
the building  works on the day in question, rather than just one. 
HSBC did not agree with my second provisional  decision and amongst other things 
previously raised it has pointed to the two emails Mr R received to support its argument  that 
Mr R was contributorily negligent. I subsequently emailed HSBC on 29 September 2020 to 
explain why I still wasnt intending  to conclude a reduction in compensation for contributory 
negligence was appropriate in this case  and why I was not minded to find that the fact 
Mr R received two emails, and not one, materially changed things. HSBC  replied by email on 
7 October 2020 to explain why it still disagrees.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  overall conclusions as in my second provisional 
decision and the email I sent to HSBC on 29 September 2020 (as summarised above), for 
the same  reasons Ive previously explained. Ive explained my reasons again  below with 
further comment where I have deemed this appropriate.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, I am required
to take into account  relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
HSBC has suggested  in its representations that I should give precedence to the legal
position; and not rely on guidance,  codes of practice  and what  I consider to have been good
industry practice, as if they amount to legal or other mandatory standards.  But the DISP 
rules require me to take into account  all of these  things  to decide what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint; and the law is just one part of that.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009  regulations) and the terms and conditions  of the 
customers account. That was the case in October 2017, and remains so now,  and I have 
taken this into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN31610213Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish  
and maintain effective  systems and controls  for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for countering the risk 
that the firm might  be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). Over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when  reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime. I 
note HSBCs comments about the status  of these papers and in particular the 2012  
thematic review paper  Banks defences against  investment fraud  Detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  (the 2012 paper).
oI accept that the examples of good  and poor practices referred  to by FSA in 
the 2012 paper (and by FSA and FCA in others) were  non-exhaustive  and 
non-binding and that the regulators  recognised that a variety  of risk-based 
proportionate approaches  is possible.
oI am also mindful  that the contents  of the 2012 paper are now reflected in 
FCG 4.2.5G (see FTCR 14.1.4G) and previously in the FSA/FCA publication 
Financial Crime  a Guide for Firms (see for example page  46 of the 2015  
version1 from 2015)2. And I am satisfied that the various thematic  review  
findings and SYSC  3.2.6R are of relevance to both sending and receiving 
banks. For example, the 2012  paper considered banks efforts  to counter  
fraud where  both the customer is the fraudster  and also where  the customer  is 
the victim,  in light of the regulatory  obligation to counter  the risk that regulated 
firms might  be used  to further financial crime, including fraud.
oThe FSA also explained in the 2012 paper that whilst the paper focussed on 
investment fraud it was of some relevance  to other  types of fraud as well. 
Specifically, it said: we have a regulatory remit to tackle investment fraud, 
which has prompted our particular interest  in this area, although  the lessons 
of this report  can be applied to banks handling  of other types of fraud and 
criminal conduct  affecting their customers.
1 https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/document/FC1_FCA_20150427.pdf
2 Both FBG 4.2.5G and the FCAs 2015 Financial  Crime  a guide  for firms gave examples of good practice in
relation to investment fraud in the following terms:
A bank  regularly  assesses  the risk to itself and its customers of losses from fraud, including investment fraud, in
accordance with their established risk management framework. The risk assessment does not only cover
situations where the bank could  cover  losses,  but also where customers could  lose and not be reimbursed by the
bank. Resource  allocation  and mitigation measures are informed by this assessment.
A bank  contacts  customers  if it suspects a payment is being made to an investment  fraudster.
A bank  has transaction monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment fraud.  Investment  fraud
subject matter  experts  help set these rules.
Ref: DRN31610214Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing  of terrorism requirements. In October  2017  those 
requirements included  maintaining proportionate  and risk-sensitive  policies and 
procedures to identify,  assess  and manage  money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures  and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny  of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).
The law itself also recognises that a bank may liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). I am mindful, however, that 
the courts have  interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case and I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in 
this case, only to make  the point that the broad legal  position  that a bank is expected  
to process payments  that a customer  authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like 
the other matters  I have  referred  to here)  is an example of that.
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice in October 2017, I consider firms should in
any event have taken  proactive  steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice (the BSI Code), which a number of banks and trade associations 
were involved  in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
I accept HSBCs representations that vulnerability and the Banking Protocol arent relevant
considerations in this case. I have not seen anything that leads me to believe Mr R was a
vulnerable consumer or in vulnerable circumstances, or that the payment was requested  in
circumstances that would make the Banking Protocol applicable in this particular case. I
mention these things  only as part of the general  background and to illustrate that it may be
appropriate in some circumstances for banks to intervene or to take additional steps in
relation to a customer, rather than simply process  payments without question.
I have also considered HSBCs representations  about the BSI Code.
The October 2017 BSI Code  gave  recommendations to organisations for protecting
customers from financial harm that might occur as a result of fraud  or financial abuse. It also
gives guidance on how to recognise customers who might be at risk, how to assess  the
potential risks to the individual and how to take the necessary actions to prevent or minimise
financial harm.
Ref: DRN31610215For the avoidance of doubt, since the BSI Code was published on 31 October 2017 and
Mr R made  his payment  request on 29 October  2017 (and Im also aware HSBC was not a
signatory to the code), I am not suggesting  that the BSI Code itself is applicable  to my 
decision in this case. But the standards and expectations it referred to were, in my opinion,
already good industry practice  but not at that stage  codified  when Mr R requested  his
payment.
I am required to take into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time of the transactions when deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
the case. And the BSI Code is a fair articulation of what I consider to have been good
industry practice at the time of Mr Rs transactions, notwithstanding that it was published
later.
Taking all these things  into account,  I consider that at the time of the payment in
October 2017, HSBC  should fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with
Mr R when it processed the £12,630  payment.
did HSBC act fairly and reasonably in this case?
I am aware  that Mr R says that when  he instructed  the payment he had to type in the 
beneficiary name (as well as the account  number and sort code)  and that he didnt know,  
and there  was nothing on the website saying that, HSBC  wouldnt verify the beneficiary  
name before putting the payment through. I understand why Mr R is unhappy about this. But 
at the time the payment was made, the relevant regulations  the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009  set out that payments are sent according to the unique identifiers. The 
impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account number 
and sort code instructed by the payer  (here, Mr R). There  was no regulatory requirement  to 
check the beneficiary name provided.  I am also satisfied that HSBC did what it could to try to
recover the money from the receiving bank. After Mr R contacted HSBC with concerns about 
the payment,  HSBC  contacted the receiving bank promptly but unfortunately the payment 
could not be recovered.
However, bearing everything in mind and what I have said above, I am satisfied that HSBC
should have done more  to question Mr Rs payment  request  before it was processed. I say 
this because:
Ref: DRN31610216The payment  of £12,630 was for a large  amount. HSBC  itself has accepted  this was 
a sizeable payment. And having  looked  at account  statements, I can see that in the 
six months immediately preceding the payment on 31 October 2017, Mr R made  a 
monthly payment  to TESCO CLUB   the largest  payment  to which  was £4,564  on 
28 October 2017. I understand these are likely  to have been payments to a credit 
card. But in any event  these  were still significantly lower than Mr Rs payment of 
£12,630 on 31 October 2017. And, aside from these payments, the largest payment 
Mr R made  in the preceding six months from his account was £3,050  in June 2017. 
Im therefore satisfied that in the context  of this particular case, the payment of 
£12,630 was an unusually large amount for Mr R.
The payment  was to a new payee.
The payment  request  was therefore,  in my opinion, in the context of Mr Rs account, 
unusual and sufficiently so to warrant some attention  before it was processed.
I appreciate HSBC argues that there is, it says, no causal basis to identify a large payment 
to a new payee as suspicious, or to identify an email diversion scam; and that before 
speaking to the customer it had no way of knowing how the customer  had been provided 
with the payee account details. I also note HSBCs representations that from time-to-time 
customers do instruct legitimate payments that are out of character from their usual account 
activity and significant in terms of value,  and that its not reasonable or practicable for it to 
vet payee account details  provided by customers in every transaction,  or to second guess 
whether the details provided are accurate or reliable. Its also pointed out that Mr R 
transferred £13,000  into his account (from his mortgage account)  ready  to make the 
payment.
Whilst I accept  there is a balance to be struck  between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate payments, I do not think  that means  HSBC  acted 
fairly and reasonably in Mr Rs case.  I also do not think  that given the circumstances in this 
case as a whole  including the environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud  
and scams  in recent years  that HSBC ought not to have done more  simply because,  as it 
says, customers do from time-to-time instruct legitimate  payments that are unusual 
compared to their usual  account activity and significant in terms of value.
How HSBC chooses to configure its fraud detection systems given those competing 
concerns, is ultimately  a matter for HSBC to decide.  But the question I need  to consider here 
is: based on all the circumstances  of this complaint, whether  HSBC  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  done  more in Mr Rs case  whether  its fraud prevention systems 
detected the payment or not. And taking all of the above into account, and what  Ive already 
said about this, I am satisfied that HSBC at the relevant  time should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
What is unusual depends on the overall  circumstances.  And to be clear, I am not saying 
HSBC ought to have been aware Mr Rs payment request had been made  as a result  of an 
email interception scam before  it spoke to him  rather, simply that Mr Rs payment request 
was unusual for him, and sufficiently so to warrant HSBC  taking  additional steps, or making 
additional checks, before processing the payment request. I dont think  the fact that, applying 
the same  criteria, HSBC  may have had to contact other customers who were not scam 
victims, means that I can say it acted reasonably in this case.
Ref: DRN31610217So, taking everything  into account to decide what is fair and reasonable in this particular 
case, I am satisfied that as a matter  of good practice, given the circumstances  of the 
payment request, HSBC should have  made  at least  some  basic  enquiries before putting  the 
payment request through.
I appreciate HSBC says it wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective; and that 
it doesnt think contact  with Mr R would have made a difference. To be clear, however, Im 
not suggesting Mr R should have been  subject to an interrogation  merely,  in the 
circumstances, a basic level of questioning  designed to disturb or unearth  a potential fraud 
and establish  that Mr R was not at risk of financial harm.
So Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions  that I believe ought  fairly and 
reasonably to have  been  asked by HSBC would  have  made  a difference. During the call 
when the scam was first reported  to HSBC by Mr R on 1 November 2017, HSBC was quick 
to recognise the type of scam; and in the call to the receiving bank when HSBC  tried to 
recover the money HSBC  said, were getting  quite a lot of these [email diversion scams]  
at the moment. So I think HSBC ought reasonably to have been aware, and was aware, of 
this type of scam and its increased prevalence  where an email invoice includes payment 
details not for the intended  recipient but an unknown third party. And I dont think  it would 
have taken much discussion when questioning the payment request before it put it through 
for HSBC to be told Mr R had received the invoice  by email, and for it to have highlighted to 
Mr R the possibility  that ought to have been well known to HSBC  that the email invoice 
had been intercepted and the payment details changed, or the email just not being  from 
Mr Rs builder at all; and for HSBC  to have suggested to Mr R that he confirm the payment 
details directly with the builder before  putting  the payment  through. This was in October  
2017, and remains  today, a common and well-known scam.
HSBC argues that Mr R needed to make the payment for building  works he was required to 
pay for; and it appears also to argue  that Mr R seemed intent to make  the payment  and was 
content to do so without first checking  the details contained in the email hed received  so 
he might  not have taken  its suggestion on board and might have proceeded with the 
payment anyway.
I accept that its a possibility that even if HSBC had taken  those steps   as I consider it 
should fairly and reasonably have done  that Mr R would have proceeded without  first 
checking with his builder. But I think it is more likely than not that if HSBC had explained that 
fraudsters intercept emails and replace  genuine bank details with their own that Mr R would 
have made  enquiries  with his builder
I am satisfied in those  circumstances that HSBC should compensate  Mr R for his losses.
HSBC has referred to Mr Rs potential own negligence or contributory negligence  its said 
that it seems  likely Mr Rs loss was caused by the builders failure to secure its email or 
alternatively Mr Rs own email  account could have been compromised. It also previously  
said it hadnt seen  the relevant emails or invoice that tricked Mr R  which  have since been 
shared with HSBC  for comment. 
I am mindful  of the law relating  to contributory negligence and the impact  a finding of 
contributory negligence may have to reduce the damages recoverable by a claimant in court  
proceedings. And I have considered whether Mr R was himself  blameworthy in some way, 
Ref: DRN31610218but I am not persuaded that his actions were unreasonable  in all the circumstances. I am 
satisfied Mr R was simply  the unwitting and blameless victim  of a clever  fraudster. 
Mr R has said he was expecting to receive the invoice from the builder. He says that the 
builder told him that the builders wife would  be sending him an invoice for £12,630. And he 
has provided copies  of the emails and invoices he received.  Mr R has explained  that the 
invoices showed  the logo,  the breakdown of the work completed  by the builder, and in which 
he saw nothing untoward. Mr R has said that after the scam  was discovered his builder  told 
him that his (the builders) email had been hacked  and the builder had discovered this 
because other customers of the builder had also received such  emails. I find Mr Rs 
submissions to be plausible and persuasive.
HSBC has pointed to the fact that Mr R received two emails on the day in question, not one 
as previously understood. I remain satisfied, however, that Mr R has sought to be consistent, 
open and honest with us throughout our investigation and his prior contact with HSBC, and 
that the fact Mr R received two emails,  not one, doesnt materially  change things here. 
HSBC says that the first email provided  an invoice for the work, and that the second  email 
was from a different  email  address and asked the payment to be made  to a different 
account. I understand the points HSBC  has made  in respect  of the second email. However, 
these are made from the perspective of a large  sophisticated bank with clear  knowledge  and 
exposure to fraud and scams methods. And I am not persuaded it was unreasonable for 
Mr R to not recognise the risk without prompting  from HSBC of this type of scam. I say this 
because:
It is unclear how the sender would have  appeared to Mr R on reading the emails. Its 
possible that just the name (which was the same on both emails) would have been 
immediately viewable. But even if Mr R had, or should have, seen the full sending  
addresses, I still dont  think it was, or would have  been, unreasonable  for him to 
proceed as he did. I have seen nothing that persuades me that Mr R was aware of 
how these types of scams  occur or that he ought  reasonably to have been concerned  
about this. He was expecting  the contact and would not have known there  was a 
scammer in the background  with knowledge  of the first email  who orchestrated the 
second.
I dont think the fact the second  email was received less than an hour after the first 
would have made Mr R suspicious.  Rather it would have likely looked to Mr R as if 
the builder had simply recognised their mistake  or change in circumstances in their 
first email, and emailed Mr R again to correct it as soon as possible. Its important to 
remember here that Mr R would not have the knowledge of email interception scams 
that financial businesses do.
Im also not persuaded by the points HSBC has made around the second email 
referring to the new banking details , that we are currently  going through some high 
rate tax issues with our regular bank account, that the payment  should be made as 
soon as possible , and that [s]ubsequent payment should be made  to this account. 
High rate tax issues could mean a number of things  I dont think  I can reasonably 
say Mr R would have  thought this could  indicate the email was from a scammer, 
when he had no knowledge and suspicion of email interception scams. It also 
wouldnt be unusual for someone  to request  payment as soon as possible. And the 
reference to subsequent  payments could easily  be explained as a catch all sentence 
 for any subsequent  payments that may or may not become due.
Ref: DRN31610219Whilst I therefore agree that there  are elements in the second  email that would cause  
HSBC and other persons sufficiently aware  and knowledgeable of this type of scam 
concern, I am not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to say the 
compensation awarded to Mr R should  be reduced due to contributory  negligent 
here. And I remain of the view that Mr R was the unwitting and blameless victim  of 
clever fraudsters  and he could see no risk of harm because, unlike the bank, he 
had no knowledge  or experience of such scams.
HSBC has said that it is the combination of factors regarding the second email that is 
important, not the individual factors by themselves,  and that these would have caused a 
reasonable individual to think  twice.  But for the reasons Ive already explained,  I am not 
sufficiently persuaded  by this.   
Im also aware of the points HSBC has made around the Contingent  Reimbursement  Model  
(CRM) but given the dates involved the CRM doesnt apply to this case and I must decide  
this case based  on its own individual circumstances. 
Overall, on balance, I havent seen anything that persuades me this was anything other than 
a situation where  Mr R was expecting to pay his builder and he, not unreasonably, took the 
communications he received at face value  as most consumers, unfamiliar with the 
sophisticated techniques of email intercept fraudsters would. I do not think it was 
unreasonable that Mr R did not recognise  the risk, without prompting from HSBC of this type 
of scam, or that there was a possibility that he might unwittingly pay £12,630 to an unknown
fraudster if he didnt  first confirm the payment  details  with the builder before proceeding. Im
not persuaded Mr Rs actions here amount to contributory negligence or that it would be fair 
in all the circumstances to reduce the compensation HSBC  should pay.
Im satisfied that if HSBC  had made  Mr R aware  of the possibility of the invoice having been 
intercepted and the account details falsified (which,  as Ive explained above, Im satisfied is a 
possibility HSBC ought to have been well aware of at the time), then, given the payment was 
sizeable, Mr R would  most likely have followed a simple step to verify the details  in which 
case he would have  realised in time what  he came  to know the next day  that the invoice he 
received had been changed to show account details for an unknown third party  and that he 
wouldnt have made the payment and wouldnt have lost £12,630.  
HSBC says my provisional decision is inconsistent with some ombudsman decisions issued 
in the past. However, I cannot comment on other cases. My role here is to decide  the case 
before me by reference  to what  is, in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, and that is what I have done.
For all the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable, in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, to say HSBC ought to have done  more to help Mr R. Had it 
done so, Im persuaded Mr R wouldnt have suffered the loss of £12,630   that he wouldnt 
have made  this payment to the scammer.  HSBC  should therefore pay Mr R £12,630 to 
reimburse him.
In my second provisional decision  I explained  that the purpose of my interest award is to 
compensate Mr R for being  deprived of money. In cases where it is possible to determine 
how the consumer  would  have used the money  (for example  if the money would have 
remained in a savings  account) then I consider it would  usually be appropriate to award a 
Ref: DRN316102110rate of interest that reflects the particular cost to the consumer of being  deprived of money 
(for example by awarding interest at a rate equivalent to the savings  account  rate).
But where it is not clear  what the consumer would have done,  I would typically award 
interest at 8% simple  to reflect the range of decisions about spending and borrowing a 
consumer may have made over a period of time, the cost of borrowing  the lost money  and 
the range  of missed opportunities they might have had  including  what sort of returns they 
could have got if theyd invested  the money.
In this case the money to pay the builder  initially came from Mr Rs mortgage account. I 
understand that Mr R had to pay the builder  again  since his first payment inadvertently  
went to the fraudster. Mr R has explained  that he therefore took out a loan with HSBC (first 
direct) on 8 November  2017; and that hed just been  made  redundant, and when his 
severance payment  came  through from his employer he used some of this money to repay 
the loan on 28 November 2017. Hes said he borrowed £15,300 on 8 November 2017 and 
repaid £15,397.42 and so paid £97.42 of interest/charges for the loan. Mr R has also said 
that when he received  his severance pay he opened  up a Post Office Online Saver account 
that is still open today. If the scam  had been prevented (as I think  it ought to have been) Im 
satisfied Mr R would have  paid his severance money into that account  rather than having 
to pay the builder again. Mr R has also said that he would have looked to spend  the money 
improving his parents quality  of life, given that his mother  had been  diagnosed with terminal  
cancer and his father was losing his mobility.
Having considered the position carefully, I think it would  be fairest for HSBC to pay Mr R the 
proportion of interest and charges that he incurred on the loan he took out in November 
2017 attributable  to £12,630 he needed  to pay the builder. I am satisfied based on the 
information provided that this would be £97.42 divided  by 15,300 times by 12,630, and so 
£80.42. HSBC should also pay interest on £12,630  from 28 November 2017 to the date of 
settlement at the prevailing interest rate of Mr Rs Post Office  Online  Saver  account, to 
reflect that this is a fair rate of interest to reflect Mr Rs having  been deprived of this money 
he lost.
Finally, Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mr R compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering  this, Ive 
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs  actions, rather  than the impact  of the crime 
itself. HSBCs failure to act has had an impact  on Mr R, not least because he has been 
facing the very real possibility for some time that he would not get his money  back. As Ive 
explained, HSBC  had the opportunity to prevent  the scam before the payment was made. It 
didnt and wasnt able to recover the money.  For these reasons, Im satisfied HSBC  should 
pay Mr R £200 for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading  
as first direct), and I direct it, in full and final settlement of this complaint, to:
Pay Mr R £12,630.
Pay Mr R £80.42,  plus interest on £12,630  from 28 November 2017 to the date of 
settlement at the prevailing rate of Mr Rs Post Office Online Saver  account.  If HSBC  
deducts tax from this interest,  it should provide Mr R with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
Ref: DRN316102111Pay Mr R £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3161021