K821x#15complaint
Mr D and Miss B are unhappy that a theft claim under  their home insurance policy  hasnt 
been paid in full by Zurich  Insurance PLC and about  the way their claim was handled.
 
background
Mr D and Miss B made a claim to Zurich after their home was burgled. Amongst other things 
the thieves stole  an engagement ring set listed on the policy as worth  £10,000  and two bikes 
worth £800  each. Mr D said hed planned  to surprise Miss B with the ring set when he 
proposed to her. 
Zurich said it wouldnt cover the ring set because Mr D hadnt complied with a special 
condition (endorsement)  in the policy about  the safekeeping of valuables. Instead  hed 
hidden it in a bedroom drawer. It said it would only pay £350  each for the bikes  because that 
was the limit on the policy.
Mr D said he wasnt aware that he needed to keep  the ring set in a safe. He also said the 
limit of cover for the bikes hadnt been  made clear.
Mr D was unhappy that Zurich had written  to both him and Miss B about  the ring set, spoiling 
his intended surprise.  
After he complained, Zurich apologised for letting Miss B know  about  the ring set and paid 
£300 compensation for that. It didnt agree to increase its settlement.
Mr D and Miss B brought their complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  upheld  it in part. 
She didnt  think Zurich had done  enough  to make  it clear that it would only cover  theft of 
valuable items in limited  circumstances. 
As Zurich didnt agree, the matter  has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I first need to decide is whether it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to rely on that 
endorsement to decline the claim for the stolen  jewellery. The wording of the endorsement is 
as follows:
Term XSK  Safe keeping
Any items of jewellery  or watches are only insured against theft or attempted theft or 
accidental loss:
-while being  or carried on the person  by you or a member of your family;
-when kept locked in the safe(s) approved by us installed  in the home;
-when kept in your bank  or safe deposit;
-when in a room  occupied by you or a member  of your family in a private dwelling in 
which you or they are temporarily living provided  entry  to or exit from the private dwelling 
is obtained  by violence  and force;
Ref: DRN38551462-when deposited with an hotel or guest house proprietor for safekeeping  while  you or a 
member of your family are a guest at their hotel or guest  house.
Since this particular endorsement is an onerous  term,  Im only likely to think  it was fair and 
reasonable if Zurich  did enough to highlight the endorsement to Mr D before he bought  the 
policy.
Mr D obtained quotes for the policy online through a price comparison website. He specified 
that he wanted cover for a ring worth £10k and a luxury  brand of watch. He selected Zurich  
from the list of available quotes and was directed to its website. 
Before accepting Zurichs quote  he had to tick a box saying:
I have read the policy summary, and agree  to the terms, conditions and assumptions. I also 
confirm that all the details I provided in connection  with my policy are correct.
Zurich hasnt been able to provide a copy  of exactly what the policy  summary  would have 
been. Based  on what it has provided, it appears  that the policy  summary is a six page 
document and the policy endorsement  is set out on page five.
 
If a clearly worded  warning about this endorsement had popped up or been prominently 
displayed before Mr D had been  able to buy the policy, Id have said Zurich had done  
enough to make him aware of it. As it was, Mr D was expected to find it by scrolling through 
the small print of the terms and conditions on Zurichs website. I dont think Zurich  properly 
explained the policy endorsement to Mr D and as a result of this he and Miss B didnt have 
the cover  they required. Because of this I dont think it would be fair for Zurich  to rely on the 
endorsement to decline this part of their claim. To put things right it should reconsider their 
claim as if this endorsement wasnt part of the policy.
It isnt unusual for an insurer to apply  policy  limits  to personal belongings such as bikes.  I 
dont think Zurich needed to highlight this term. It was clearly shown in the policy summary. 
So I think Zurich was entitled to apply this limit.
Its unfortunate that on top of the burglary Zurich spoilt Mr Ds intended surprise by telling 
Miss B about the engagement ring. But I think the compensation offered of £300 is 
appropriate to compensate Mr D and Miss B for the upset it caused by this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Zurich Insurance PLC to reconsider Mr D and Miss Bs 
claim as if the safe keeping endorsement wasnt part of their policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
Ref: DRN38551463ombudsman
Ref: DRN3855146