K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Zopa Limited  held him liable for a loan he says he did not apply for. 
background
Mr H has explained that he received  a telephone  call from someone claiming to be from his 
bank (and whom Ill refer to as S). S told Mr H that his accounts  were at risk and persuaded 
Mr H to give him remote access  to his computer so he, S, could take steps to protect them. It 
seems that this happened on several occasions over a couple of weeks,  during which Mr H 
and S were  also in regular  telephone  contact.  
S was not from Mr Hs bank at all. He was a fraudster.  And, having gained  access  to Mr Hs 
computer and personal details, he made a number of loan applications,  including  an online 
application for a £25,000  loan from Zopa. When Zopa received the application, it spoke  to Mr 
H by telephone. In the course  of that call Mr H confirmed that he had made the application  
and provided some  information  about his income. Zopa then approved  the loan and paid the 
funds into Mr Hs bank account. The funds were removed from the account later the same 
day, Mr H says by S. 
Mr H says he didnt make the loan application and has had no benefit of the loan  which  he 
has now repaid, albeit whilst reserving the right to pursue this complaint. He says that S 
made the application, telling Mr H that if the loan was approved, he (S) would arrange  for it 
to repaid immediately;  this would in turn protect Mr H if anyone else were to make  fraudulent  
applications in his name. 
When it became clear what had happened, Mr H complained to Zopa. He said that Zopa  
hadnt followed the necessary regulatory  steps before approving the loan and had been 
negligent in not identifying  that the application  was fraudulent. Zopa  didnt accept that and so 
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators considered  it but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. She concluded that, by allowing the loan application to 
proceed, Mr H had accepted that he was the borrower. Further, any loss that Mr H had 
suffered was the result of the money  being  withdrawn from his bank account, not as a result  
of the loan. Mr H didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions and asked that they be reviewed 
by an ombudsman  as the final stage  in our process.                 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
I should say first of all that I accept Mr Hs version of events and that he has been the victim 
of a cruel and quite  sophisticated scam.  That involved other loans as well, not just the one 
that Im considering  here.  And, whilst some of the financial institutions involved have agreed  
to bear the loss themselves, Mr H remains significantly  out of pocket.  He has my sympathy. 
As Ive explained, Mr H trusted  S and gave him access  to his computer and financial details. 
I think its likely therefore that it was S and not Mr H who applied for the Zopa loan. It would 
not have been particularly  difficult to make the application  appear as if it had come from Mr 
H. 
Ref: DRN37513832Generally, a lender cant hold some one liable for a loan they didnt apply for  however 
convincing the application. But there are two additional factors that I need to take into 
account here. They are:
Mr Hs telephone  conversation with Zopa;  and 
the payment of the loan funds to Mr Hs bank account.
Mr H says that Zopa didnt carry out proper checks before approving  the loan and, had it 
done so, it would have realised that the application  wasnt genuine. Im afraid  I dont agree 
with him about  this. Theres  no requirement  for an application to be made in person or for a 
hard signature. Most  online loans are processed in the way this one was. More significantly 
though, Mr H said in the telephone call that he had applied for the loan. In effect, he affirmed 
the application. But he also misled Zopa by saying that he had applied for the loan when in 
fact someone else had done  so. I dont believe it would be fair in the circumstances to 
criticise Zopa for not identifying what was happening. Had Mr H explained that someone else 
had applied  for the loan, Ive no doubt  that Zopa would  have  acted differently.   
Its important too that the money was paid into Mr Hs bank account (rather  than to an 
account of a third party, for example). He didnt  therefore directly  lose out by the actions of 
Zopa in granting  the loan. He had the benefit of it. He only lost out when  the money was 
transferred from his bank  account; thats  a matter between him and his bank, but does  not 
involve Zopa.
As I say, I accept that Mr H has been  the victim of a cruel scam. But in the circumstances, I 
dont believe  it would  be fair to make  Zopa  bear the loss for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Zopa Limited  to do any more to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3751383