K821x#15complaint
Mr L is complaining about  three instalment loans he took with PDL Finance  Limited  (trading 
as Mr Lender). Mr L has said that Mr Lender  acted irresponsibly  by lending to him.
background
In July 2017, Mr L took out a loan of £300  (loan 1) with Mr Lender. The loan was due to be 
repaid in six instalments with the highest repayment amount of around £155. Mr L repaid the 
loan in two instalments. 
Within a week of repaying the first loan, Mr L took out a second loan (loan 2). This time,  Mr L 
increased the amount he was borrowing to £700.  Like the first loan, the second  loan was 
due to be repaid  in six instalments and the highest repayment amount  was around £256. 
Mr L repaid this loan later than planned  in April 2018. He missed the repayment due in 
February 2018 and incurred  late fees for that missed payment. 
In June 2018 Mr L asked Mr Lender for a third loan (loan 3) of £1,000 and his loan 
application was approved.  The third loan was due to be repaid in 12 instalments and the 
highest repayment amount was around £215.  As I understand  it, Mr L hasnt  fully repaid this 
loan and theres an outstanding balance. Mr L told Mr Lender he was going into a debt 
management plan and it has set up a repayment  plan for loan 3.
Mr L complained to Mr Lender about his loans. Mr Lender didnt uphold  his complaint but 
offered to refund the interest he paid on loans 1 and 3 and deduct  that amount from the 
outstanding capital balance on loan 3. Mr Lender also offered to remove adverse information 
from Mr Ls credit file once he completed  the capital repayment. Mr L didnt accept the offer 
and brought his complaint  to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ls complaint. Our adjudicator thought  that the 
checks Mr Lender  carried  out for Mr Ls loan 1 were sufficient. But they thought  that              
Mr Lender should  have done  more  before lending loans 2 and 3. Our adjudicator  said that 
Mr L couldnt afford loans  2 and 3 and he had lost out as a result of being  given  those loans. 
Mr Lender didnt agree and so the complaint has come to an ombudsman for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
At the time of the loans, this type of borrowing was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Its rules  in CONC 5.2 at the time stated that lenders must consider the 
potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely impact  the 
customers financial situation, taking  into account  the information of which  the firm is aware  
at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and the ability  of the customer  to 
make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit agreement , or for such  
an agreement which is an open-end agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable 
period. 
Ref: DRN37951972In short,  Mr Lender should carry out a customer focused check to determine whether Mr L 
could sustainably afford to make  each repayment when due before agreeing  to lend him any 
of the loans. 
what checks did Mr Lender carry out?
Mr Lender has said that for each  loan it gave Mr L, it searched  his credit file, asked Mr L for 
his income and living expenses including his other  loan commitments.  From the information  
Ive seen, it seems like Mr Lender  carried out similar  checks for all three loans.
Mr Lender hasnt provided the full result of the credit search it carried out but from the 
summary it has provided, Mr L didnt have  any defaults or county court  judgements (CCJs)  
recorded on his file at the time.
Mr Lenders record shows Mr Ls income  as £1,369 at the time of loan 1. Mr Lender has told 
this service that Mr L had £547 of disposable  income although it hasnt provided a 
breakdown of how that amount was reached. From both these figures,  it would appear  that 
Mr Ls outgoings were  around  £822.
By the time of loan 2, Mr Ls income  had increased  to £1,370 and his expenses had also 
increased to £900.  His recorded expenses included;
rent - £200
food and travel - £100
phone  - £70
other loans - £230
other regular outgoings  - £300
Mr Lender hasnt provided information recorded  at the time Mr L applied for loan 3 so I have 
assumed it used the same details from loan 2 when it considered Mr Ls application  for 
loan 3. This means that Mr Lenders  checks and results for loan 3 were identical to loan 2.
were these checks sufficient for each  loan? 
I agree  with our adjudicator that the checks Mr Lender carried  out for loan 1 were sufficient. 
This was Mr Ls first loan and he was borrowing a relatively low amount compared  to his 
income. And the maximum monthly repayment of £155 was around 11% of his stated 
income. I cant see that there was anything that should have prompted Mr Lender to be 
concerned about  his ability to repay  this loan.
By the time Mr L was requesting loan 2, he was asking for more  than double the amount of 
loan 1. I cant see that his income had substantially increased but his outgoings had now 
increased to £900,  which  meant that he had less disposable income to repay the maximum 
monthly amount  of around  £267.
I think the information Mr Lender gathered should have prompted it to go further with its 
checks. The increase in expenses and the amount Mr L had to repay should have concerned 
Mr Lender. Also, Mr L was asking for loan 2 within a week  of repaying loan and the loan 
amount was more  than double the first loan. This may have suggested Mr L was depending 
on short  term loans and should have prompted  Mr Lender to at least check  Mr Ls short  loan 
commitments in addition  to the checks it already  made. 
Ref: DRN37951973I can see that Mr Lender asked Mr L about  his other  loans and other  regular outgoings but I 
cant see that it specifically asked him if he had other short  term loan commitments  and what 
these were. I think it should have checked this.
Mr L was due to complete  the repayment  of loan 2 in March 2018 but I can see that he didnt 
fully repay  the loan until April 2018.  By June  2018, he was asking Mr Lender  for loan 3. This 
time he was borrowing £1,000 to be repaid over 12 instalments.
Taking into account the fact that Mr L didnt  repay  loan 2 within the agreed  time  he had 
one payment deferred and incurred one late fee penalty, and he was now borrowing more 
than he had done previously to be repaid over a longer period of time  12 months,  this 
should have concerned Mr Lender. Also, the increased borrowing and the fact that his 
income and expenses remained similar to what they were  when he borrowed loan 2 may 
have suggested  that he may have struggled to repay this loan.
By this stage, Mr Lender should have been  looking to put together  a clearer picture of Mr Ls 
financial circumstances before agreeing to lend to him. 
In summary,  Mr Lender should  have done more  before agreeing to lend Mr L loans 2 and 3.     
I dont think the checks  it carried out were  sufficient for it to be satisfied that Mr L could afford  
to sustainably repay both these loans over the period they were due to be repaid.
what would  sufficient checks have  shown?
If Mr Lender had carried out the checks I think it should have before lending loans 2 and 3 to 
Mr L, I think its unlikely to have  given these loans to Mr L.
As stated above, Mr Lender should  have checked  Mr Ls short  term loan commitments in 
addition to the checks it made before  lending  loan 2. And had it done that, its likely to have  
found that Mr L was due to repay  more  than his recorded disposable income in short term 
loans and so he didnt have the means to sustainably  repay  this loan. For example, I can see 
from the information Mr L has provided  that around  the same  time the first instalment  for 
loan 2 was due, he was also due to repay  more than £500 to other  short term lenders.
Ive used Mr Ls bank  statements  and his credit report  to gain a clearer picture of his 
financial circumstances at the time of loan 3. Im not suggesting that Mr Lender needed to 
request Mr Ls bank statements but it needed  to show that it took reasonable steps to get a 
better understanding of Mr Ls finances before agreeing  to give him this loan. And I cant see 
that it has done that here.
Sufficient checks before  agreeing to lend loan 3 are likely to have shown  that Mr L was 
dependent on short term loans as he was borrowing  from at least three  other short term 
lenders  Mr L had over £1,000 owing  to one short term lender and continued to borrow from 
other lenders too. In one of the months  when he was due to repay  this loan, he was repaying  
more than £1,200 to other short term lenders as well. 
I cant see that his income increased as he continued to earn around £1,300. Also,  his 
normal living  expenses and regular outgoings didnt reduce. This meant that Mr L didnt have  
sufficient funds to afford all the loan repayments when they were  due. 
Ref: DRN37951974As a responsible lender,  I dont think Mr Lender  should have given Mr L loans  2 or 3 in those 
circumstances. And as Mr L has lost out, Mr Lender  should;
refund  any interest and charges  Mr L paid towards the loans  agreed  in October 2017 
and June 2018.
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
as theres an outstanding balance, Mr Lender can deduct the balance  from the 
redress amount. Any surplus should be paid to Mr L.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ls credit  file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and require  PDL Finance Limited  to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3795197