K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss R says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a personal reserve account that Miss R took 
out in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Allianz had to make Miss R aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said when Allianz  sold the PPI to Miss R so
Ive based my decision on the information available from the time.
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form Miss R completed when she applied for 
her card and PPI. The form had a separate section for PPI where  the option to take the 
policy has been selected. The form has also been  signed in agreement with the information 
on it. So with the information available I think its likely Allianz  made it clear the PPI was 
optional and Miss R chose to have it.
Miss R says her application  form shows the policy was recommended to her as it states we 
strongly recommend.  But I dont think this shows a personal recommendation was given 
to Miss R, it seems to be a standard piece of wording on the form and from what Ive seen I 
dont think Allianz  recommend the PPI to Miss R. With this in mind  Allianz  didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss R got the information  
she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But I think she chose to take it out knowing the other means she had of making 
her repayments, which included generous sick pay and help from her partner. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Miss Rs sick pay, and for longer than she would have  
received full pay. And while Miss Rs partner  would have wanted to help,  their ability  to 
would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time,  which  could have changed. 
So I dont  think this offer off help could be guaranteed.
Ref: DRN32915082Miss R has told us she was only working  part time. But when we asked Miss Rs 
representative about this we were  told Miss R was working more than 16 hours per week 
which was the requirement to be able to claim under the policy.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Rs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. And it looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said, including that she was in secure  employment  
so didnt need PPI. But I still think Miss R could have  had a need for the policy  so these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3291508