K820x#14complaint
Ms R has complained about a premium increase that her commercial property insurer,  
U K Insurance Limited (UKI), sought  to apply  to her policy at renewal in 2018.
background
Ms R had been insured with UKI for a number of years. A month prior to renewal in 
March 2018 the policy administrator wrote to Ms R and advised  her that her flood excess  
had been increased (applicable from renewal) and that her premium was likely to go up. A 
few days later a further letter was issued informing Ms R that her premium, currently  around 
£2,000, at renewal  would increase to just over £10,000.
Ms R was shocked by this and further disappointed  when she asked  UKI why and it told her 
this was because  it felt her property  presented  a greater  flood  risk than in previous years.  
Ms R pointed out the property was on a hill and a number of other  factors  which  she felt 
meant UKIs  assessment was unreasonable. UKI explained that it had begun  using new 
software that took into account a number  of factors, not just proximity to watercourses. It 
wasnt minded to amend the premium  and the renewal didnt progress.  Ms R found new 
cover at a lower price  than shed been paying with UKI.
Ms R also discovered though that UKI had sent out 21 copies of her renewal  data, all of 
which contained security  details. Ms R received 16 of them, but was concerned as to where 
the other five had ended  up. UKI was unable to answer this. It apologised though for the 
inconvenience its mass mailing had caused  Ms R, confirmed it had taken steps to ensure 
this wouldnt happen  again and offered £30 compensation. 
When Ms R complained to this service our adjudicator felt UKI had acted fairly and 
reasonably regarding Ms Rs premium.  She also noted that, regarding  the mass mailing,  UKI 
had offered £30 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused  Ms R, which she felt 
was fair. But, regarding Ms Rs worry about  the alleged breach of security,  she pointed  out 
that data issues  are dealt  with by the Information Commissioners Office.
Ms R remained dissatisfied. She said that given what UKI had charged her previously she 
had a lawful expectation for charges  to remain at a similar level.  She said that UKI sending 
and losing her security details was a breach of the data regulations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it was disappointing for Ms R to receive the news that her premium  would 
increase so significantly. However, whilst policies renew each year, each period of cover 
offered is a separate contract. The insurer isnt obliged  to keep its offers  from previous  years 
available nor keep  the price  similar to what it has been before. Each year an insurer is 
entitled to review what it is prepared to offer,  and that process of commercial  judgement  is 
something this service wont usually interfere  with. 
In respect of what price  an insurer chooses  to charge, this service  considers that is also a 
matter of the insurers commercial judgement. How it chooses to view risks and what charge 
it prefers to make in that respect are things  for it to decide. As long as it applies the same  
Ref: DRN38214902process to all its customers  and as long as it doesnt  make  mistakes, well usually  find its 
acted fairly  and reasonably. 
Im satisfied that UKI has used the same tool for Ms R that it uses  for its other customers.  Im 
also satisfied that the data generated  a pre-set loading to be applied to her policy and I cant  
see that any mistakes in calculating her premium have been  made.  Therefore, Im satisfied 
that UKI has acted fairly and reasonably. 
I appreciate that Ms R was inconvenienced somewhat by looking for new cover. But it was 
always her right to shop around  if the cover  UKI was offering didnt suit her. From what shes 
said shes come  out better  off from that exercise  than she was before UKI looked at 
increasing her premium. So its hard for me to say, even if I felt the suggested increase was 
unfair, that UKIs actions prejudiced her. And in saying  that Im satisfied that UKI did give her 
fair warning of the impending change, so I dont think she was put under undue pressure.
I know Ms R is concerned about the amount of letters UKI sent her. I accept it would have 
been inconvenient to receive so many  documents. Im satisfied that the £30 UKI offered in 
this respect is fair and reasonable. Whilst Ms R says the worry that she was caused, 
because of what she sees as UKIs  data breach,  justifies further compensation, this office 
doesnt assess or determine allegations of data breaches. As our adjudicator advised Ms R 
that is the role of the Information Commissioners Office.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3821490