K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs W applied  for her credit card in branch,  and I can see her application was filled out 
electronically. There was a section for additional  products,  which included PPI. I can see 
that in order to fill in the application the staff member  discussed  Mrs Ws personal details, 
financial details, employment and so on. So I think its most likely  that they discussed the 
section with PPI, too. The section said that if customers wanted any of the products listed 
they should mark the box next to it. The boxes could be left blank  if they didnt want it. 
The box for PPI was marked and Mrs W signed the application to confirm her choices. So 
I think that Halifax made it clear Mrs W didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to 
take it  though I can understand if she doesnt remember this after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs W, so it had to check  that the policy was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, it looks like Mrs W was eligible for cover and wasnt affected  by any of its 
main exclusions  or limits. While she had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of those and it offered her more  comprehensive cover  especially when her work 
benefits reduced to just a fraction  of her normal pay. And she doesnt  seem to have had 
any savings or other protection.  So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Mrs W in 
case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks  like she chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover.  As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have  been  useful for Mrs W in case 
something went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mrs W could cancel 
the policy at any time without a penalty. Overall,  I dont think better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking it out. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mrs W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision,  if it has not 
done so already.
Ref: DRN36799772My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3679977