K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about the advice he received when he arranged three endowment  
policies in 1979. He believes the advice and explanations given were below the standard  I 
should reasonably have  expected and I felt pressured into taking life insurance cover without 
fully understanding the basis of the requirement. 
The endowment policies were sold alongside  Mr Ns mortgage  but Phoenix  Life Assurance 
Limited has taken responsibility  for its sale.
background
In 1979 Mr N took out two non profit endowment policies and a Home  Loan endowment 
policy. All three policies  were arranged to protect and act as repayment vehicles for his 
25-year mortgage. The Home Loan policy had a target and life cover of £18,000 and a basic  
sum assured of £7,085  to which bonuses were added to hopefully make up the maturity 
value. The policy matured  for £23,843.56.
The non profit policies had sums assured and guaranteed maturity  values of £4,000 and 
£6,000 respectively. The policies matured in 2004  after 25 years for their stated  values.
Mr N has told us that at the time of the sale he was 33 years old, a professional and had no 
dependents. He doesnt think  he needed the life cover associated  with the policy  as he had 
life insurance through his employer and the value of the property provided additional 
security. 
Phoenix upheld  the complaint about  the Home Loan endowment policy  as it couldnt 
establish if he had been made aware  of the risks associated with the policy. It calculated  if 
Mr N had suffered a loss from having  the policy. It did so in line with the guidance from the 
industry regulator and determined  there had been no financial loss. 
In relation to the two non profit endowment policies, Phoenix explained that they guaranteed  
to pay out their target values on maturity or death. As such, they were  no risks associated  
with them  and the complaint was rejected.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and agreed with Phoenix.  Mr N wasnt  
happy with her finding and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. After 
considering the evidence  in this case I asked that clarification be sought from Mr N about the 
exact nature  of his complaint. He confirmed that he was complaining  about having  to have 
life cover included  in his mortgage arrangements. He doesnt believe that it was necessary 
as he was a professional with no dependents. 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 January 2020. In that document I set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt  of that document.
Now that Mr N has clarified his complaint, I dont propose to comment on the risk issues that 
both Phoenix and our investigator discussed. I will look at solely the issue of the life cover 
associated with the policies Mr N was sold. 
Firstly, given Mr N took him mortgage  and policies in the late 1970s, it is entirely plausible  
that the lender had a requirement for the mortgage to be protected in the event of death. 
There was no regulation or any voluntary  schemes  in place at the time that set good practice 
Ref: DRN36252792about what lenders  could  or couldnt do. If a lender required the mortgage to be covered in 
the event of the mortgagees death,  it could make  that a condition of the lending  in order  to 
protect its interests. If that were the case, it wouldnt have been inappropriate for Phoenix to 
have recommended policies which included life cover.
Given the mortgage was taken out over 40 years  ago and it was redeemed 15 years ago, its 
not going to be possible to establish  what the lenders requirements were at the time of the 
sale. However, what I can confirm is that life cover provided by employers has never been 
considered suitable to protect a mortgage.  Firstly, this is because it is not guaranteed  the 
employer could change  their benefits package  or it could be lost because  of a change  of 
employment. In addition, even if the benefit could be relied on, it cannot be assigned to a 
lender thereby ensuring the repayment  of the mortgage on death.
Furthermore, I would  explain that life cover is an inherent feature of the type of policies that 
were arranged for Mr N. It is a requirement for such a policy to include life cover  in order  for 
the maturity proceeds  to be provided  free of tax. Life cover  within  such policies  was 
generally less expensive than standalone products and for a relatively  young  person, as 
Mr N was at the time, the cost wouldnt have been  significant. In addition,  
endowment- backed  mortgages often provided an additional lump  sum after the mortgage 
was repaid, having often cost less than an equivalent  repayment mortgage. So in general at 
that time,  the tax advantages and the possibility  of an additional  lump  sum after repaying  the 
mortgage were seen to outweigh  the cost of the life cover.  
I would also comment that even though Mr N didnt  have  any dependents  at the time of the 
sale of the policies, that doesnt necessarily mean he wouldnt want to leave  the property or 
a higher value  estate  to family  or friends  who werent dependants.
In order to uphold  a complaint, I must  be persuaded that the business has done something 
wrong and the consumer  has suffered  a loss because of, or needs  to be compensated for, 
that failing. I cannot  apply  later standards to the sale or use hindsight when considering it. As 
I have said above,  due to the passage of time it isnt going to be possible to establish exactly  
why Mr N was sold policies that included life cover, given his personal circumstances. 
However, given how such policies were generally viewed at the time, I am not persuaded 
that the inclusion of the life cover would  have meant  they were inappropriate for him such 
that I could  uphold this complaint. 
Both Mr N and Phoenix confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that they had no 
further comment to make.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and in light of 
the responses to my provisional decision,  I see no reason to alter my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept  or reject my decision 
before 27 March 2020.
Ref: DRN36252793Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3625279