K821x#15complaint
Mr T says that he instructed The Share Centre  Limited (TSC) to transfer in shares from his 
three existing platform providers. He says two of these were  completed within  the projected 
four-week timescale but TSC failed  to pursue the third provider resulting in the transfer 
taking three  months  and this led to a substantial  loss.
background
Mr T said the delays caused him a financial loss of £1,380.33 on his investment stock  and 
£3,769.72 for his SIPP transfer. He also said TSC should compensate  him for the trouble 
and upset caused by the lengthy delays in transferring his money and for its failure to 
respond to his queries or his formal complaint. 
An investigator at this service felt his complaint should be upheld.
He said that Mr T had sent the transfer request on 7 February 2018, which TSC 
acknowledged receipt of the same day and said it would process this as soon as possible 
but within four weeks. It said it would  chase the other provider every two weeks  to ensure 
this happened. He noted that this projected timescale matched TSCs terms and conditions 
of 30 days for such a transfer.
He said that the in-specie transfer involving shares  with the other two providers did not 
result in a loss and that TSC had offered Mr T £100  for the inconvenience this had caused.
But this still left the issue of the time it took for the encashed money to be made available  for 
reinvestment; which was not until 9 May 2018. Mr T used  this money to invest  in three 
different funds/shares on 23/24 May.
The investigator felt this showed this had been  Mr Ts intention from the outset and that he 
would have invested this money at an earlier date but for TSCs errors.
He said TSC had not produced any persuasive evidence to indicate that it had chased the 
provider, as it had promised to do, until Mr T began pursuing this issue. Given its clearly 
stated terms and conditions he felt the transfer  could have been  completed by 9 March if 
TSC had acted fairly.
The investigator said that TSC should  put him back into the position he would have been 
had the delays not occurred. It should  purchase  the additional number of shares Mr T would  
now own if hed purchased the three stocks on 28 March. This was based  on the point when 
Mr T had been able to purchase stock with the cash from his other provider/s. This cash was 
received 21 February  2018 and the stock purchased on 12 March  2018, within  14 working 
days.
He said it was reasonable to use the time it took to purchase stock  from the other providers 
encashed money as the basis for how long it might have taken to purchase stock  from this 
providers cash.
Finally, he thought TSCs offer of £250  in lieu of the trouble and upset  caused  by this issue 
was fair and reasonable given it had offered  two additional payments  of £250 for related 
complaints, along  with the £300  refund  of fees.
Ref: DRN32200222TSC disagreed, and said:
The 30-day  guarantee  referred  to transfers out to another  provider and not transfers 
in from a third party
It accepts  the transfer took longer than it should  have and that it did not chase the 
request or keep  Mr T up-to-date with progress. However, one should take into 
account that the platform provider had confirmed it had significant backlogs, so there  
was little likelihood the transfer  would have completed within  four weeks and certainly 
not within 14 days
So, it is unfair to blame  it for the entire  delay
The basis for calculating reasonable loss (purchase of stock) should be 29 April not 
28 March, this being a mid-point between  what the investigator  proposed  and the 
date of the actual  transfer
The investigator did not accept this, saying  that while  the previous provider could have acted 
quicker, it was TSCs responsibility  to follow up every two weeks  as promised - and this 
didnt happen  until 26 April. If it had, he felt the transfer could've still taken place within  the 
four weeks  and the shares purchased on 28 March 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. I have therefore not 
reiterated his detailed explanation of the disputed  issues and his analysis  of what  ought  to 
have happened. I also agree that the in-specie transfer did not result  in a loss and therefore 
there is only one potential loss issue.
One, of course,  cannot be certain  when  the transfer  and subsequent purchases would have 
occurred, given this depended on a third party. But, overall, I am satisfied that the date 
selected by the investigator is more likely than not to be about right  and that compensation 
should be paid on this basis.
TSC did not follow up the request with the third party until 26 April.  After  this, the transfer 
was completed by 9 May. Given this, it is more likely than not that if TSC had pursued things 
on 21 February (two weeks from the request) the transfer would  have happened  in early 
March. Following this logic, it is reasonable to assume the new share purchases could/would 
have happened  around 28 March 2018.
TSC must  therefore calculate  and pay compensation on this basis.  It must  purchase the 
number of additional shares in the three companies which  wouldve been  affordable  if Mr T 
had received the cash in time to make the share  purchases on 28 March.  It must either  
purchase these within  Mr Ts SIPP or then put them into his SIPP  at no cost to him. To do 
this it should assume  the same split between  the three invested funds i.e. Mr T would  have 
split his investment  money equally between these.
It must also pay the £250 if this has not been done.
 
Ref: DRN32200223my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  The Share  Centre Limited to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3220022