K820x#14complaint
Miss L has complained  that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined a claim shed made  under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) after she took out a point of sale loan 
with it to pay for a surgical procedure and aftercare  for a third party   Mr D. She would like 
Shawbrook to arrange further treatment  or reduce the balance of the loan because Mr D isnt 
happy with the results  of the surgery and aftercare. 
background
In 2017, Miss L paid £7,000 for a surgical  procedure and aftercare for Mr D using  a point of 
sale loan provided  by Shawbrook. A company that Ill call K carried  out the surgery and 
aftercare. I understand  this came with a guarantee  that if the procedure wasnt successful, K 
would offer further surgery  and aftercare at no additional cost.  
Mr D was unhappy with the results  of the surgery. And he says that K only provided part of 
the aftercare before  it went out of business.  Miss L thought the contract had been broken, so 
she raised a claim with Shawbrook under section 75.  
Shawbrook turned down the claim because it didnt think the necessary requirements for a 
claim to be made under  section 75 had been met. 
Miss L wasnt  happy with Shawbrooks  response,  so she referred the complaint to our 
service to consider.  
Our investigator looked into things and he didnt think Shawbrook acted unfairly in declining  
Miss Ls section 75 claim. He said the contract for the surgery  and aftercare was between K 
and Mr D. And because Miss L didnt  have a contract with K, he felt that the necessary 
conditions for a claim to be considered under section 75 hadnt been met. 
Miss L didnt  agree.  She said that although the procedure wasnt  for her, she paid for it. She 
thinks the procedure  was mis-sold and that shes paid for a service that hasnt been received 
as promised. 
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the complaint  has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L paid for the surgery and aftercare using  a regulated consumer credit agreement  with 
Shawbrook. Our service is able to consider  complaints  relating to these sorts of agreements. 
When considering  if Shawbrook acted fairly when it declined Miss Ls claim, I take into 
account the relevant law. So in Miss Ls case,  section 75 of the CCA makes Shawbrook  
responsible for a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  under  certain  
conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct  relationship  between  the 
debtor (Miss L), the creditor (Shawbrook) and the supplier (K). 
Ref: DRN34706772The CCA defines debtor as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit  
agreement. In this case, thats Miss L because she entered  into the agreement with 
Shawbrook. But the surgery was provided to Mr D. Miss L has received  no goods or services 
from K. 
Although we dont  have  all the paperwork that would have been issued by K, I have to bear 
in mind that the surgery was for Mr D. Mr D is an adult and he was the party required to 
consent to it. Given the invasive  nature of the procedure, I dont think  I could fairly say that 
anyone other than Mr D contracted with K. Due to the type of service  provided, I dont think 
the surgery can be said to relate  to Miss Ls joint affairs  either. Considering all this, I dont 
think that Miss L was a contracting  party with K. 
I appreciate why Miss L is unhappy with this. And I can understand her strength of feeling 
that someone should be responsible for dealing with the claim, with matters being 
complicated by the fact that K is no longer trading.  But here I am looking at Shawbrooks  
liability and my decision is that Im not persuaded the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement exists for a valid claim against  Shawbrook under section 75. Therefore, while I 
sympathise with the situation, I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly in how it handled 
Miss Ls section 75 claim. 
On that basis, I wont be asking Shawbrook to do anything further here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3470677