K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr C has said the adviser  told him had to have PPI to get the mortgage. The problem I have, 
in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact  words  used by the adviser  and 
the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible 
benefits of an insurance  policy, even if the adviser is partly  motivated by making a sale  as 
long as the policy is actually something  worth having. The closer it gets to making someone 
feel they have  no real sensible alternative  to taking the policy,  the less acceptable it is. 
And this did all happen about 18 years  ago, and I wouldnt  expect someone  to recall in detail 
everything that happened, so I wouldnt know how much weight I can fairly put on what Mr C 
has remembered from the meeting. 
Its likely  the documents  themselves set out the PPI as a choice. And it wouldnt be fair to 
say Santander  did something wrong  in what the adviser said,  unless I had stronger evidence  
of what was said, and how it was said. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr C, and this means it had a higher standard to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Cs 
particular circumstances.  However, finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs situation at the time: 
Its likely  Mr C was eligible  for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits if Mr C lost his job, and is seems he didnt have 
savings or other means to fall back on. 
Although Mr C has said he struggled with payments  when his work hours went  down, 
I dont have evidence  that he couldnt  afford  the premiums at the time he applied.  
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr C would 
have been affected  by any of these
Ref: DRN35797282So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have  affected  
whether Mr C took the PPI.
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. But Santander has paid back  some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr C because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr C has said the amount of PPI commission he has been paid back is very low. From the 
evidence it seems that most of the time the PPI commission rate was below 50%. It is only 
when the percentage got about 50% that a refund was due. This would explain why so little 
has been refunded.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3579728