K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) gave him poor service and incorrect  
advice when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs car was stolen and recovered on 8 September  2018. In the initial  call between Mr H 
and UKI, its advisor told him his car would be written-off due to the extent of the damage to 
it. Mr H was given a hire car whist  the claim was verified. There were  some problems in 
doing that, so the process took until 15 October  2018. Meanwhile, on 10 September  2018 
UKI had told Mr H to advise the cars  finance  company that it was a total loss. In fact, UKIs 
engineers needed to check  whether it was repairable or not first.
Mr H wasnt told the car might be repairable until 10 October 2018. His view was that the car 
wouldnt be safe to drive even if repaired given the nature of the damage done to it. There  
was a delay in getting the car inspected,  and Mr H was given different accounts by UKI 
about the dates for the inspection. He was finally told by an engineer  on 17 October 2019 
that the car was repairable. Mr H said he wasnt going to have it back. On 7 November 2019 
another inspection  took place. UKI found more damage, but confirmed that the car was still 
repairable. Mr H insisted he wanted  it writing off.  
Mr H complained to UKI about its total loss decision and various other  issues. UKI accepted 
that there  had been some  delay and that Mr H was given the wrong advice about the car 
being written-off. It also accepted that there was confusion about  the cars  inspection. It 
offered Mr H £200 compensation. It didnt accept  it had said he didnt  have to pay the policy 
excess, or that it gave him the wrong advice about  the car having  a theft marker on it. UKI 
wouldnt agree  to pay for the finance on the car for the time Mr H wasnt able to use it, as it 
had kept him in hire for the whole period. It said it thought the £200  it had paid Mr H was fair. 
But as it made an error in paying it into his bank  account, it offered him a further  £100.
Mr H wasnt satisfied, so one of our investigators reviewed his complaint.  She thought UKI 
should pay him a further £100  (so £400 in total) for the delays and inconvenience  caused by 
it. She noted  that as it had started  to deal with the claim as a total loss, it had asked Mr H for 
documents. He said he hadnt got the full V5 registration document back. As Mr H needed to 
pay for a replacement, she thought UKI should reimburse the £25 charge for that. Initially the 
investigator thought  UKI should  also pay Mr H a further £50 for the inconvenience caused by 
not getting the V5 back. UKI was able to show that it was sent to Mr Hs address by recorded 
delivery and was signed for, so she no longer thought the extra £50 sum was appropriate.
In his reply to the investigators view, Mr H said UKI should pay a lot more compensation. He 
raised new issues that the investigator  said would have to be dealt with as a separate 
complaint. She said shed  already  dealt  with other issues  Mr H mentioned. She didnt agree 
that she needed to hear all the calls between him and UKI to establish that it had given him 
the wrong advice.  As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39218622I think UKIs entitled to go through  its usual  process to validate a claim. I dont think  its 
necessary to go into all the details here,  but I can see from the file that the process took 
longer than usual.  It seems Mr H wasnt able to provide all the details  UKI needed  within a 
short time, so that caused some delay. But UKI accepts that it made  a major error in 
advising him that his car was definitely a total loss at the outset. 
I think that advice  raised Mr Hs expectations about  getting a new car. It also caused  him 
inconvenience. He contacted his finance provider for a settlement sum and also contacted 
the provider of the cars GAP insurance  policy. And it seems UKI processed the V5 
document too quickly. Theres evidence on the file that UKI returned the whole document  to 
Mr H, but in two parts.  It cant be established  what happened to the second  part. As Mr H got 
an incomplete document back, I think its fair that UKI should pay for a replacement V5. 
UKIs file shows that there was confusion in the claims-handling even after it realised that the 
car might be repairable. The cars final inspection didnt take place until November 2018. In 
the meantime  there  seems to have been a lack of clarity  about  dates and about  which  
engineer would be making  a decision.  I think if UKI had handled this aspect of the claim 
better, Mr H wouldnt have become as frustrated as he did. 
Despite the view of UKIs  engineers, Mr H remained insistent that UKI should  treat the car as 
a total loss. But under the policy,  UKI has the right to decide  how to deal with any claim.  Our 
role is to look at whether  it acted reasonably in doing so. Although there  was around £9,000 
of damage to the car, that was only around  a third of its market value. In general  a car is only 
treated as a total loss if the damage to it is likely  to cost 60% or more of the cars  market 
value to repair. So I think UKIs decision not to write  the car off was reasonable.
Mr Hs main concern was always that the car wouldnt  be safe to drive  once  repaired.  But in 
my view theres nothing to show thats  likely  to be the case. UKI told Mr H his car was going  
to be repaired at a dealership garage,  not by the approved repairer it was initially sent to for 
repair. That change was made as UKI recognised the claim had been  handled  badly. 
Theres nothing to suggest that the approved repairer couldnt  have  carried  out repairs to a 
high standard.  But I think  most consumers would have even greater confidence in the quality 
of work carried out by a dealership garage. So I dont think  Mr Hs concern is valid.
Mr H has also argued that UKI should write  the car off because thats what  it first said it 
would do. But I dont think UKI should have to act on the basis of an error. In my view, the 
way to deal with the error is by paying  compensation, and thats what  UKI has done.  
I dont agree with Mr H that UKI should pay for the finance charges on the car. The finance 
plan is between him and the finance  company. And Mr H wasnt without a vehicle  at any 
point. UKI kept him in hire for the whole period (until the car was repaired). So a payment for 
the loss of use of his car wouldnt be justified. Mr H says he paid extra  for a guaranteed hire 
car. But the policy states that the benefit  he bought only runs for 21 days, so UKI paid for the 
considerable extra time Mr H had a hire car.
Ive listened to the call in which the policy excess was discussed. Mr H is mistaken in 
recalling that UKI said it wouldnt  be payable. The advisor said it would be payable  at two 
points during the call. But she also said Mr Hs no claims discount  wouldnt be affected by 
the claim,  so I think its likely that Mr H confused the two issues.  
Mr H thinks UKI gave  him the wrong advice  about the marker placed on the car following 
the theft. He didnt mention this to us initially, but UKI dealt with it in its final response  letter.  I 
Ref: DRN39218623think the letter of 13 November 2018 UKI sent to Mr H about the issue was clear. UKI said 
the entry initially made against the car on the Motor Insurers Anti Fraud and Theft  Register 
(MIAFTR) was that it was stolen. UKI later had the entry changed to stolen recovered. It 
said there wasnt a total loss marker  against  the car, as Mr H may have thought.  
I havent seen  anything in UKIs notes that conflicts with what  it said in the letter  referred to 
above. If Mr H was given  different  advice at some point, I can see why hed be unhappy 
about that. UKI apologised to Mr H if that had happened, despite having  no record of it. And 
it has ensured the right details are recorded,  so I cant see that Mr H has lost out.  
In my opinion, UKI made a reasonable attempt  to put matters right for Mr H by offering him 
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. But taking everything  into account, I 
agree with the investigator that compensation of £400 in total would better  reflect the extent 
of distress and inconvenience he faced. I think paying Mr H an extra £100 - plus £25 for the 
new V5 document - is a fair and reasonable way for UKI to settle this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr H a further £100 (making £400  in total)  for distress  and inconvenience
Pay Mr H £25 for a new V5 registration document  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3921862