K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc (t/a Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy  was added to 
Mrs Ws credit card account when she applied for the mortgage during a meeting with 
Halifax. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
 I think Halifax made Mrs W aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it  although I can understand  why she can no longer remember this. I can see from 
the paperwork that was completed at the time that Mrs W ticked  a box on her mortgage 
application to say she wanted  PPI. There was a no option  available on the form. Mrs 
W also signed the application at this point to confirm her choice. Mrs P then signed a 
separate application for the PPI itself. So it does  appear  she agreed to buy the PPI.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs W, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have  paid 
in addition to any work benefits Mrs W had and would have meant she could use those  
benefits to pay for other living expenses and commitments.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs W chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs W would  have made  a different decision if better information had been provided.  
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments, including what shes  said about not knowing she 
had the PPI, and that shed have made a claim when she was made redundant if shed 
known she had the PPI. Its possible Mrs W could make a retrospective  claim, if she had the 
PPI at the relevant time  it ran from May 1998 to April 2002.  Mrs W will need to contact the 
insurer to see if thats an option.
This point  doesnt  change  my conclusion.
my decision
Ref: DRN37523662For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  22 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3752366