K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr G applied for a mortgage with Halifax  in 1999  and bought the PPI policy at around the 
same time.
He says Halifax advised him to take it out even though its adviser knew  he had savings. And 
he says having  savings meant  that, if he lost his job, he wouldnt be able to claim jobseekers 
allowance. Since  the policy required him to be claiming jobseekers allowance  to pay 
unemployment benefit, he says he bought a product that was of no use to him. 
Mr G also says that, when he did lose his job, he didnt want to claim jobseekers allowance 
and so couldnt claim on his PPI policy.  He says Halifax didnt  explain this to him.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Gs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr G disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr G he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to 
it. Although I dont have  a copy of Mr Gs mortgage  application, I have seen the separate  PPI 
application form that was completed at the time.  There are personal details on the form 
including information  relating to Mr Gs eligibility  for the PPI and the form has been signed. 
Theres nothing on the form or other paperwork Ive got from the time to suggest  the PPI was 
compulsory or a condition of the lending. So on balance I think Halifax  probably discussed 
Mr Gs insurance  needs with him at around  the same time as he applied  for the mortgage 
and he agreed  to the PPI knowing he didnt have to.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to make sure it was right for him. And, based  
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time and the policy  details  Ive looked  at, I 
think that it was. For example,  he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover so I dont  think there was anything to stop Mr G making a successful claim if hed 
needed to.
Mr G says when he lost his job eight years after taking out the PPI, he was told he couldnt 
claim under the policy because he wasnt claiming  jobseekers allowance. Other  than what 
Mr G has told us, I dont have any information about a declined  unemployment claim. But 
what I can say is that most  PPI policies  required a claimant  to be claiming jobseekers 
allowance  or the equivalent  in order to claim unemployment benefit. So this wasnt  an 
unusual term and I wouldnt have expected Halifax  to explain this specific  detail to Mr G 
when he bought the cover.  And, at the end of the day, it was Mr Gs decision not to claim 
Ref: DRN38351682jobseekers allowance even though  it meant  he couldnt claim unemployment benefit  under  
his PPI policy.
Mr G says he wouldve  got some  sick pay and had significant savings at the time he bought 
the PPI  which wouldve  been  slightly more than his annual gross earnings at the time. But I 
still think the PPI  which couldve paid out for up to 24 months  for each successful  accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim he made  could have been  of use to him. Mr Gs 
mortgage was a major  long-term financial commitment and it was secured on his home, 
which was at risk if he couldnt keep up with his mortgage repayments. It wouldve paid out 
on top of his sick pay and for much longer  than his sick pay lasted. It would also have meant 
Mr G didnt need to use his savings  which he mightve needed for other things  to make  
his mortgage repayments.
Mr G also says his savings meant  he couldnt claim jobseekers  allowance and so the cover 
was of no use to him. But its my understanding that the first six months of jobseekers 
allowance wasnt  contributions-based  so a claimants savings werent considered.  And, 
even after six months,  Mr Gs level of savings mightve been beneath  the threshold needed 
to make  a difference to his entitlement to unemployment benefit. So these points dont 
change my conclusion  that I think the PPI couldve been of use to him.
Its possible  some of the information Halifax gave  Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. I can see, though, that the monthly cost of the cover  is set out in the PPI 
application form Mr G signed, so I think hed have known what he was paying for it. And, as 
Ive said,  I think Mr G chose to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems  like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable.  So I dont  think clearer information about  the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3835168