K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined his home insurance claim for 
damage to his mains  water pipe under his house. 
background
Mr P received a letter from his water provider showing an increase in his water usage. On 
investigation it was shown that there was a leak to his mains  water pipe. He used a drainage  
company to detect  the leak which was found  to be buried in the ground under his kitchen.  
Mr P had the leak repaired and then contacted Aviva to make a claim  hed paid his 
contractor £800  for the detection and repair. Aviva said the claim wasnt covered. 
Mr P disagreed. He said his policy covered  him for trace and access  of leaks. Aviva  said that 
the only cover for damage to underground  pipes was within  the additional accidental 
damage to buildings section of Mr Ps policy. It said that Mr P hadnt chosen to take out the 
additional accidental  damage cover so the policy didnt cover  the damage  he was claiming 
for. 
Unhappy with Avivas  decision, Mr P complained  to this service. Our adjudicator looked into 
his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only those events, or 
perils, that are listed in the policy are covered. These include damage caused by fire, theft,  
storm etc. Aside from the basic  cover  offered by most typical policies, it is usually possible to 
select and pay for some  add-on  covers such as additional accidental damage or home 
emergency cover. Only if those covers are selected and paid for will they be included on the 
policy. 
Mr Ps policy  provides cover for his buildings.  It says:
The Buildings
We will provide cover  for loss or damage to the buildings caused by any of the following:
5.a. Water  escaping  from water  tanks,  pipes, equipment or fixed  heating systems.
Words that appear  in bold type have specific meanings and are defined within the policy  
terms. The policy defines Buildings as:
The home, swimming  pools, ornamental ponds  and fountains, hard courts,  terraces, patios, 
drives, footpaths, walls,  fences, gates, hedges  and fixed tanks  providing  fuel to the home
The policy defines  home as:
Ref: DRN34267912The house or flat and its outbuildings (including  garage),  at the address shown on your 
schedule 
There is, unfortunately for Mr P, no mention of underground pipes within  the relevant 
sections of the policy Ive quoted above. He has cover for loss or damage to his buildings  
caused by escapes of water from the installations  listed. Underground pipes are not 
included. So I dont  think that Aviva has unfairly  declined to cover  the damage  as claimed. 
And I cant see that the damage as claimed  would be covered by any other of the standard  
insured events listed in the policy. The only policy term that mentions  underground pipes is 
the accidental  damage cover  to buildings section of the policy.  But Mr P didnt select that 
cover so it wasnt included in his policy. 
The policy Mr P has does  provide cover  for tracing  and accessing  leaks  in certain  
circumstances  namely if the buildings are damaged by water  escaping from tanks, pipes, 
equipment or fixed heating systems  in the home. I dont  think this section of the policy 
extends to cover Mr Ps claim  for two reasons. Firstly there is no mention of underground 
pipes being covered and secondly it only engages  when  the buildings are damaged due to 
an escape of water from one of the installations listed. My understanding  of the 
circumstances of Mr Ps claim is that there was no damage to his buildings by escaping  
water. And even  if there  was, then the damage wasnt  caused by one of the installations  
listed. So I dont think Aviva has unreasonably  declined to meet the part of Mr Ps claim that 
relates to the tracing and accessing  of his leaking underground water mains pipe.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3426791