K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  was 
irresponsible to lend her money.
background
Miss T took out 24 instalment loans with Sunny between January  2015 and May 2016.     
Miss T says that she was stuck in a cycle of borrowing more  money to repay previous loans. 
Miss T says that Sunny shouldve seen that she was struggling financially.
Miss T wants  Sunny to refund the interest and charges that shes paid on the loans. Miss T 
wants Sunny  to remove the loans from her credit file.
The adjudicator recommended Miss Ts should  be upheld  in part. In summary, she thought  
that it was reasonable of Sunny to agree loans one to five. But the adjudicator  thought 
Sunny shouldnt have agreed  loans six to 24.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny refund all interest  and charges that Miss T had 
paid on loans six to 24.  And the adjudicator said Sunny should remove any information  
about loans six to 24 from Miss Ts credit file. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything  that the adjudicator recommended but it offered to put 
things right for loan 11 onwards.
Miss T isnt willing to accept Sunnys offer so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss T could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN33073262the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss T. It asked Miss T for details 
of her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Miss Ts credit  file.
loans one to five
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt unreasonable of Sunny to agree these loans based 
on the information it held about  Miss T.
As Miss T hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans one to five, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with the adjudicators recommendation 
for loans  11 to 24, so I will focus  on the loans  which remain  in dispute  loans six to 10.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Miss Ts lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonable have seen that further lending  was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Miss T.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ts case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because:
when Miss T took out loan six, the previous loan was still open. Although the Miss T 
asked to borrow less than some of the previous loans, shed been  borrowing almost 
continually and wasnt making  any inroads in to the amount that she owed. 
Ref: DRN33073263from loan six onwards Miss T sometimes took out a new loan before repaying  the 
previous loan. So Sunny shouldve seen that it was likely Miss T had to borrow more 
to cover the hole left by repaying  each  earlier loan.  This meant  that Miss Ts 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
The loans were  instalment loans, each  with six month terms. But Miss T sometimes 
repaid her loan in the same month that shed taken it out. This wasnt how instalment 
loans should usually work.  Even if Miss T hadnt told Sunny  about  her financial 
difficulties, I think this pattern of lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood  that 
Miss T was having problems managing  her money. So I think that Sunny shouldve 
been concerned  that Miss T might be borrowing elsewhere to repay  loans.
I think that Miss T lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing for loan six 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ts indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Miss T had been  
borrowing from Sunny  was likely to have had negative implications on her ability  to 
access mainstream credit. This kept Miss T in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ts complaint about  loans  six to 24
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss T paid on loans six to 24;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  six to 24 should be removed from Miss Ts 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN33073264Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3307326