K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited wont  refund a payment made on 
his credit card to a travel booking website for flights for his daughter.
background
In February 2018  Mr M bought a two-legged flight to the UK from abroad for his daughter 
using a Creation  credit  card through a travel  booking website  (the Website). Mr Ms 
daughter didnt check in at the airport abroad for the first leg of the flight and so didnt fly. But 
she was able to arrive  at the intermediate airport for the second  leg flight  on her ticket.  But 
on arrival  was told her seat on the flight to the UK had been cancelled. A new seat on the 
same flight  was then purchased in business  class  as there were no like-for-like seats 
available. This was at significantly  increased  cost to her original seat.
Mr M complained to the travel booking website, but it felt it had done nothing wrong and 
pointed to the terms and conditions which it said allowed the second leg flight ticket to be 
cancelled due to Mr Ms daughter not flying on the first leg flight.  
Mr M asked  Creation to help under  Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. But it said it 
didnt think the appropriate relationship was in place  for Creation to be held liable. And even 
if the appropriate relationship did exist, it felt it wasnt responsible because  there wasnt a 
breach of contract or a material misrepresentation in what  had happened.
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. The Investigator felt that the appropriate relationship was in place but 
overall, he didnt  think  Creation  had acted unfairly by declining  Mr Ms request  for a refund. 
Creation didnt have any arguments  to add once it had sight  of the Investigators 
assessment. Mr M didnt agree. So the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Creation, as Mr Ms credit card account provider. Its not about the 
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only 
considering whether Creation should have helped with the dispute  with the Website in any 
other way.
There are two areas where  Creation could help Mr M with this issue.  Namely  under Section 
75 of Consumer Credit Act 1974  and under the Chargeback process.
Section 75
The transaction was made using Mr Ms Creations credit card.  Under section 75, in certain 
circumstances, he has an equal  right to claim against Creation as he does  against  the 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be certain conditions met including  an 
appropriate relationship between the parties  in respect of the transaction  financed by the 
credit card. This is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement. And to understand how 
Ref: DRN31802822this applies it is important  to appreciate  the contractual relationships between the various 
parties.
Mr M paid the website using the credit provided by Creation. The website provides the 
service of sourcing  and arranging flight tickets. So in respect of this transaction  Mr M is the 
debtor, Creation the creditor and the website is the supplier..
Mr M booked the tickets with the website and is named on the booking  confirmation as the 
purchaser. So it appears he has a contract with it in respect of the arranging of the flights. I 
have also looked  at the websites terms and conditions and these confirm the nature of the 
contractual relationship with Mr M. 
So overall I am satisfied  that Mr M is able to make a claim against  Creation under Section 75 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation by the website in the supply  of the service of 
sourcing and arranging of the flights if such breach or misrepresentation is made  out.
However, Mr M did not contract with the airline in respect of this transaction. So I dont think 
he can hold Creation responsible via Section 75 for the actions of the airline and its 
contractual relationship with those who book  and take the flight. I also note that in this case  
Mr M was not the passenger on the flight so it would appear the relevant terms of the 
airlines contract here would be in respect  of the passenger (his daughter).
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must be within the financial limits set out in the Act. Ive considered what Mr 
M paid the website  for its service and I think this case meets the required financial limits to 
have a claim under Section 75.
But Im not persuaded that there was breach or misrepresentation here. The website was 
tasked with sourcing  and arranging the flights and thats what it did. There is no argument 
that the flights werent sourced and arranged as agreed. And Im not persuaded there was a 
misrepresentation either. The websites terms and conditions make  clear that if you dont 
check in to the first flight your tickets on your subsequent flights  will be cancelled. And that 
is what happened. So I dont think Mr M was misrepresented into entering this contract 
unfairly. So I dont  think Creation  has done  anything wrong here in how it has handled Mr 
Ms claim to it under section 75.
Mr M in his arguments has said the seat was sold on after being cancelled  to someone else 
without him being  informed  or anyone else being  informed  that was going to happen. But Ive 
not seen any part of the websites contract  saying that he or anyone would be informed.  And 
ultimately the airline is responsible for what it does regarding the provision  of the flight not 
the website. So I dont think there  is a breach there  which Creation can be held responsible 
for.
Mr M says his daughter  was told the flight was full before a much more  expensive seat 
became available. But Creation nor the website are responsible for what  the staff in the 
airport or the airline staff say. And the decision to purchase the more expensive seat doesnt 
stem from any breach  or misrepresentation. So I dont think  it would be fair for Creation to 
have to cover that cost.
It is also argued that Mr M should be refunded  the cost of the seat because  it was resold to 
someone else. But the seat had been cancelled in line with the agreed  terms and conditions.  
So I see no persuasive reason for Creation to cover any such cost as there  was no breach 
Ref: DRN31802823or misrepresentation here by the website. Ive considered the other  important facets of this 
purchase and Im not persuaded  that the contract was breached by the Website or that the 
contract was misrepresented to Mr M during the sales process.
could Creation challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant,  as Mr M does 
here, Creation (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally we say its fair for a 
card issuer  to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment  - if theres a reasonable 
prospect of success,  for example where goods  arent received, or it appears  that the 
payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.
There is no dispute that Mr M purchased the tickets  and it is clear that the transaction  was 
properly authorised by Mr M. The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme  and has certain  
rules including time limits for chargebacks to be attempted. Mr M first brought the issue to 
Creation in March  2019. The flight in question was in September  2018. The chargeback 
scheme requires chargebacks to be made  within certain described time limits. I can see that 
when Mr M approached Creation the relevant time limits had already elapsed  from the 
events complained about. So any chargeback would have been out of time. So I dont think 
Creation treated Mr M unfairly  by not trying  a chargeback.
In summary  Creation  didnt raise a chargeback  but I dont think Mr M lost out because  of 
this. I think that there is the appropriate relationship for a Section 75 claim regarding the 
website, but I do not think  such a claim should  be successful. I say this because I think  there  
was no breach or misrepresentation of the contract by the website. So I dont think I can 
fairly require  Creation to pay any refund to Mr M. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Creation Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3180282