K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined  his claim for a lost/stolen  
mobile phone under his gadget insurance  policy. My references to Assurant include its 
agents.
background
Mr M had gadget insurance through his bank account, the insurer is Assurant. Mr M told 
Assurant his phone was lost or stolen on a night out and claimed on his policy.
Assurant declined the claim. Although  Mr M had provided a proof  of usage letter from a 
phone network provider, Assurant had information from the phones manufacturer which  
showed the phone had never been  activated.  Assurant said that meant  the phone couldnt  
have been used and the proof of usage letter, allegedly from the network  provider, couldnt  
have been correct. It declined the claim under the policy term:
If false or inaccurate information is provided  and fraud is identified then we will not 
honour the claim and we will cancel your policy. If an excess  has been  paid this will 
not be returned, this is not a penalty this is to cover administration costs.
Assurant also said there  were inconsistences in what  Mr M had told it about  the time of his 
last call on the phone and the SIM card used in the phone.
Mr M complained to us. He said when he bought the phone  it had already been used and he 
used the phone for about a month before the loss. He also gave  us more information  about 
the time of his last call and said hed told Assurant the wrong  SIM card as he'd forgotten  
which of his two SIM cards was in the phone.
Our investigator thought Assurant hadnt fairly  declined the claim. She thought Mr M had 
shown he was using  the phone before it was lost/stolen and given a reasonable explanation 
for the discrepancies. She said Assurant should settle the claim subject to the remaining 
policy terms
Assurant disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to not uphold  the complaint.  I said:
I have to decide whether Assurant fairly and reasonably declined  the claim,  and on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think it did. Ill explain why.
I accept that Mr M may have mistakenly given  Assurant  the wrong information about  which  
network SIM card was in the phone. I dont think theres enough evidence for Assurant  to 
decline the claim on the basis of the last phone call being recorded at 1am, not 11pm  as 
Mr M told Assurant,  given  the possibility that the later 1am call may have gone to voicemail.
The important issue is Assurant has evidence direct  from the phone manufacturer  that the 
phone Mr M claimed for wasnt  activated.
Ref: DRN32635882Assurants evidence is that once the phone has been activated the phone manufacturers 
system will be updated to show the phones activation date.  Ive seen the screen shot of the 
manufacturers relevant  system and the phone has no first activation  date recorded.
Assurants evidence is that as the phone wasnt activated Mr M wouldnt have been able to 
use the phone to call. So the proof  of usage letter, which says its from a phone network 
provider, cant be right. On the evidence I have I think  Assurant can reasonably  reach that 
conclusion so it can fairly rely on the above policy term to decline the claim.
If Mr M can provide evidence from the phones manufacturer that its system is wrong (and 
the phone  had been activated) or that an un-activated  phone  can be used to make phone  
calls I will take that into account in making  my decision.
developments since my provisional decision
Mr M didnt  agree my provisional decision.  He sent further information:
a screenshot  of a blacklist check showing the IMEI number of the phone  which  said 
the phone  had been activated, and
a letter  form the phone manufacturer support team that said it didnt provide 
information about activation or usage of its phones to insurance  companies or others.
We sent the new information  to Assurant and asked for its comments. It said it works closely  
with the phone manufacturer and has access to its systems so Assurant didnt need to ask 
the manufacturer for information as it gets the information direct from the system. Assurant 
sent further information:
the screenshot from the phone manufacturers  system from the time of Mr M's claim 
which showed no first activation  date recorded   
a new screenshot  from the phone manufacturers system which  showed  the phone  
had been recorded  as activated but the first activation date was 23 January 2019,  
after the date Mr M said he used and lost his phone 
the phone manufacturers confirmation  that regardless  of any delay in their system 
receiving the activation confirmation, its system  would still record  the correct  date of 
activation
it had spoken  to the phone manufacturer who said the activation date would be 
recorded on it systems. The date of activation is the date the warranty  starts. It also 
included information  which  showed  the phone's  warranty expires on 22 January 
2020, one year after the first date of activation. 
We sent Assurants further  information  to Mr M and asked for his comments.  He said he did 
use the phone before it was lost. He didnt  know  why the activation  date was in 
January 2019  and didnt  know  how the phone could  be activated if the phone was 
blacklisted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32635883I appreciate Mr Ms made efforts to get information  to support his claim.  But the screenshot 
he provided showing his phone was activated was dated 11 August 2019.  There was no 
date of first activation on that screenshot. It didnt show that the phone must have been  
activated before Mr M said the phone was lost/stolen.
Assurant said it has access to the phone manufacturers system and from my experience of 
deciding other  mobile phone  insurance  cases I accept what  it says about that matter.   
Assurant has provided information from the phone manufacturers system that shows  the 
first activation date at least a month  after Mr M reported his phone  as lost/stolen.  The 
warranty information supports the January 2019 first activation date. 
I understand Mr Ms point  that hed blacklisted the phone by January  2019. But I think  
Assurant can reasonably understand that the phone manufacturers system will show  the 
correct first activation date and it can fairly  rely on the information.
On the evidence I think Assurant can reasonably reach the conclusion  that as the phone 
wasnt activated until January 2019,  after Mr M reported the phone as lost, Mr M wouldnt 
have been able to use the phone to make a call in December  2018. So it can reasonably  
conclude that the proof  of usage letter,  which  says its from a phone network provider, cant  
be right.   
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings Assurant can fairly 
rely on the policy term above to decline the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263588