K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about the process for reclaiming the tax paid on property income  
distributions issued  by three Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) hes invested  in. To 
resolve the matter,  he wants Interactive Investor  Services Limited (Interactive Investor) to 
change the process  so that distributions are paid gross.
background 
Mr P has a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP)  with Interactive Investor. Administration 
of the SIPP  is handled by a third party (the SIPP administrator). 
Mr P is invested in three REITs through his SIPP. A REIT  is a property investment company 
listed on a stock exchange that owns and manages property on behalf  of its shareholders. If 
a REIT performs well it will typically distribute profits  to shareholders. These distributions are 
paid net of income tax at the basic rate. Where investment in a REIT is through a tax 
wrapper, such as an Individual Savings  Account (ISA)  or SIPP,  the tax deducted on the 
distributions can be reclaimed from HMRC and credited to the ISA or SIPP.
Currently the SIPP administrator reclaims the tax deducted from HMRC at the end of the tax 
year. This process results  in a delay between the net of tax distribution paid into the SIPP 
and the corresponding reclaimed tax being credited at a later date.
In April 2018 Mr P contacted Interactive  Investor to query this tax reclaim process. Since  he 
didnt received a response he complained. He said he was unhappy about  delay  in the 
reclaimed tax being credited to his SIPP, particularly since  he receives a similar tax credit 
every six weeks  on his ISA, also with Interactive Investor. He says the relevant  REITs 
provide a form that would  enable the distributions  to be paid gross  into his SIPP, rendering 
the tax reclaim process obsolete. 
In response, Interactive Investor upheld in part Mr Ps complaint. It said, in summary, that:
the process for submitting the tax reclaims is determined by the SIPP administrator and 
not Interactive  Investor;
it has no control over the process  and frequency the SIPP  administrator chooses to 
submit tax reclaims  to HMRC which, in Mr Ps case,  is at the end of the tax year;
there was a change  of SIPP  administrator  during December 2017 which meant  two 
separate tax reclaims were submitted, resulting in the credits being applied  to his SIPP 
at different times;
the fact that the tax is reclaimed within six weeks on his ISA is irrelevant and doesnt 
mean the tax reclaim process  under  the SIPP is being handled incorrectly;  and
it could have handled things better when Mr P contacted  it in April 2018 to query  the tax 
reclaim process   in recognition of the poor level of service provided and the delay in 
correctly dealing with his query,  Interactive  Investor apologised and offered Mr P 
compensation of £50.
Ref: DRN37038532Mr P didnt accept Interactive Investors  response  and referred the matter to us. Our 
adjudicator upheld in part his complaint. In summary, our adjudicator said:
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) has not specified  how frequently tax reclaims 
should be submitted  on distributions  issued by REITs held within  a SIPP;
it is not within the powers  or remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service  (FOS) to 
enforce how regulated  businesses operate;
Interactive Investor is not responsible for the SIPP administrators  actions including the 
process and frequency of submitting tax reclaims to HMRC;
Interactive Investor is not responsible for the timeliness in HMRC processing tax 
reclaims;
the fact that other SIPP administrators might submit tax reclaims more  frequently or pay 
distributions gross does not mean  Interactive Investor is at fault in this case;
Mr P is free to transfer to a new SIPP provider; and
he thought  Interactive  Investor had provided a poor level of service in response to            
Mr Ps initial  query  about the tax reclaim process   he felt Interactive Investors  previous 
apology and offer of compensation of £50 in recognition  of this was reasonable.
Mr P didnt accept our adjudicators conclusions. He continues to believe that the 
distributions can be paid gross and that Interactive Investor should arrange for the process 
to be changed . He asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicators conclusions and for much the same reasons.
For the avoidance of any doubt  I have read and considered the whole file. I have confined 
my comments to what I think  is relevant.  If I havent commented on any specific  point made  
its not because  Ive not thought about it or missed  it, but because  I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the wider  
context of the complaint thats been made.
Scope of this final decision
Under this final decision  I can only consider  the acts or omissions of Interactive Investor. 
Therefore Ive carefully considered whether Interactive Investor made  an error or treated            
Mr P unfairly and, if so, what  impact  this had, if any.
Ref: DRN37038533Gross REIT distributions
At the heart  of this complaint is Mr Ps dissatisfaction  that the tax deducted on the REIT 
distributions is currently reclaimed annually. He believes  that distributions can be paid gross. 
I havent seen  any evidence Interactive Investor told Mr P that distributions would be paid 
gross into his SIPP and that he invested on this basis,  so there is no issue  regarding 
misrepresentation.
Mr P has placed a great deal of weight on the fact that similar tax reclaims are credited more 
frequently to his ISA. We asked Interactive Investor about this. It explained that unlike the 
SIPP, it manages the tax reclaims on its ISAs which it submits  in bulk on a monthly basis,  
which is the reason  why the tax credits  are paid more frequently.
With regard to the SIPP, Interactive Investor  told us that the current process  where the 
SIPP administrator submits the tax reclaims on an annual  basis  has always been in place. 
It seems  that Mr P only recently became aware of this after he spotted a delay between  the 
distribution paid into his SIPP and the corresponding tax reclaim  being credited at a later 
date.
Mr P thinks  the distributions  can be paid gross because his research has established that a 
form is available online that will enable the relevant REIT providers to pay the distributions 
gross. Hes sent us a copy  of the relevant form. It states: 
The shareholders  who qualify for gross  payment are principally UK resident 
companies, UK public  bodies, UK charities,  UK pension funds, and the managers of 
ISAs, PEPs  and Child Trust  Funds. Most shareholders, including  all individuals and 
all non-UK residents,  do not qualify for gross payment and should not complete this 
form.
As an individual shareholder, Mr P is unable to sign the form. He is reliant on the SIPP 
administrator to do this. Weve asked Interactive Investor about  this. It has explained that 
while the form may be available, the tax reclaim is submitted in bulk and on an annual basis 
by the SIPP  administrator for all relevant shareholders. Interactive Investor says it has no 
control over the SIPP administrators process for handling tax reclaims and there is no 
indication its process  will change in the future, including completion of the form provided by 
Mr P.
Interactive Investor  told us that no written  agreement  exists between it and the SIPP 
administrator regarding when and how the tax reclaims are submitted to HMRC. As a result  
of Mr Ps complaint, it says its in the process  of updating its Frequently Asked Questions 
section on its website  covering SIPPs so that the process is clearer to its current  and 
potential customers.  While I think this is helpful,  I dont think  it means Interactive Investor  
made an error or have treated Mr P unfairly.
My powers and authority
There is no regulatory requirement for REIT distributions to be paid gross into a SIPP.
Ref: DRN37038534My decision  must reflect the remit of the FOS as an informal dispute resolution service.  As 
explained by our adjudicator, it is not within the remit of this service to tell regulated  
businesses how they should operate. We are not a regulator. Therefore I cannot direct  either  
Interactive Investor  or the SIPP  administrator  to complete the forms referred to by Mr P 
which would enable REIT distributions to be paid gross into his SIPP; I have  no powers or 
authority to do this. I know that this will come as a severe  disappointment  to him.
If Mr P remains dissatisfied with the outcome  of this complaint, he is of course free to reject 
my decision  and to then pursue his complaint elsewhere, including  with the FCA and or 
through the courts.  In addition, he is of course free to switch to a new SIPP  where REIT 
distributions are paid gross if that is his objective.
Like our adjudicator, I agree that Interactive  Investor provided a poor level of service  when  it 
dealt with Mr Ps initial query  about  the tax reclaim  process. As an informal dispute 
resolution service, our awards  for distress  and inconvenience tend to be modest. In this 
case, I think that the apology and compensation of £50 offered to Mr P by Interactive 
Investor  in recognition of the poor service  it provided  is reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Interactive Investor  Services Limited must, if it hasnt done so already, 
pay Mr P compensation of £50. I make no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my final decision before 18 March  2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3703853