K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained to us that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies alongside a number of loans in 2002, 
2003 and 2004.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a number of loans with Bank  of Scotland and were sold PPI with each 
one. The policies were  designed to cover  Mr S if he couldnt work because of an accident, 
sickness or if he lost his job. For clarity, the loans I will be looking at in this decision are their 
loans ending  in 227-9, 162-8 and 360-9.
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and didnt think  the PPI policies had been 
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with this view and asked that the matter  be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain the reasons for this. 
First of all, there are rules  about who could qualify for the cover. Given  his circumstances, it 
looks like Mr S met these rules. So I think he could have claimed on the policies if he 
needed to.
Next, Mr and Mrs S told us that it wasnt made clear to them that the policies were optional.  
Looking at the paperwork from the time of the sales, Mr and Mrs S signed  an agreement  
form for each loan. These had sections about  the PPI, with yes and no boxes for 
Mr and Mrs S to indicate whether or not they wanted to take out the policies,  and the yes 
boxes were marked with crosses. Mr and Mrs S told us that the boxes were  pre-populated, 
so they didnt understand the policies were optional. But I dont think  that this was likely. I 
think that having read the agreements, its most  likely they would have  known that they were 
signing up to the PPI. I also think its most likely  that Mr and Mrs S would have understood 
that they could  have  asked for the no box to be filled in. So on balance, I think  it was clear  to 
them that they had a choice about  whether or not to take out the policies. 
Next Ive looked at whether the policies were suitable for Mr S. Looking at the main  
exclusions and restrictions of the policies, it doesnt  look like Mr S wouldve been  caught by 
any of them.  
In addition, Mr and Mrs S told us that Mr S didnt need the policies because  if hed been too 
ill to work  he would have received sick pay at the discretion of management. But the policies 
would have paid out for a guaranteed length  of time. In addition,  in the case  of accident or 
Ref: DRN38216302sickness this would  have  been for up to 5 years. And the policies would also have paid out 
for up to 12 months if Mr S lost his job. So overall,  I think that the policies  would have been  
useful for them  and the recommendation was suitable. 
Finally, Bank of Scotland  had to give Mr and Mrs S information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so they could  make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take the 
policies. 
Ive considered the possibility that Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs S clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policies. But the 
cost was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. And its 
possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main  things the policies didnt cover.  But given 
his circumstances,  Mr S wouldnt have been  affected by any of those things. So on balance, 
I dont think having  better  information would have dissuaded Mr and Mrs S from buying 
the PPI. 
This means  I dont  think these policies were mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs S paid for them. But Bank  of Scotland  has already offered to 
give Mr and Mrs S back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont  think  it needs to do 
anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs S, now that Ive issued my final 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3821630