K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss C says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Miss C took out in 2003. It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL should have  made it clear the PPI was optional. Miss C says the PPI has been added  
without her knowledge and consent. 
FICL has provided a copy of Miss C application form. The form has a section for the PPI 
and applicants have  to sign a section to say if they want to take out the PPI. On Miss Cs 
form, this section has been signed.   Miss  C has signed the overall  credit  agreement so I 
think if there was anything on the form she wasn't  sure about or hadn't  agreed to, she 
would've had the opportunity to question  it at the time.  
On balance I think FICL made it clear that Miss C didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Miss C. Which means it didnt have  to check  if it was 
suitable for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss C got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Miss C says she didnt have any employee benefits  or any other means  such as savings  
to help her make her repayments if she was too unwell to work  or became unemployed. So I 
think it would  have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN33263732Ive thought carefully about everything Miss C has said, but for the reasons explained above 
these points dont  change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss C complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3326373