K821x#15complaint
Ms M says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms M took out in 2001. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt accept the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint  and Ill explain why. 
Ms M wasnt eligible  for the main cover of this policy because she was working less than 16 
hours per week. This means the policy was of very limited use to her as she wouldnt be 
covered for the main  part of the policy.
I dont think Ms M wouldve bought the policy if shed realised she wasnt eligible for the main 
part of the policy.  So, I think Ms M has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments regarding the credit agreement  but this was dated 
some 5 years prior to when Ms M took the policy so I think its possible her circumstances 
could have changed during this time. So I still think  I should  uphold the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms M would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN35553822If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms M would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms M would have owed each month  without PPI  
Ms M paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest 
on the extra Ms M paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Ms M 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card.  The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Ms M what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms 
M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3555382