K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer a local 
government defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several unregulated 
collective investment schemes  (UCIS).
background 
Mr S was introduced to Portafina in 2014, after hed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
Portafina completed fact finding calls with Mr S, following  which they produced  a suitability 
report setting out its advice. In summary  the report said:  
Mr Ss circumstances were:
-He was 58 years old, single and unemployed with a monthly  income of £411
-He lived in rented accommodation
-He had outstanding debts of £2,500,  with monthly repayments  of £61 
-He was not in good  health and had a desired retirement age of 65 
Regarding Mr Ss OPS:
-His cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £76,382 
-If he transferred, hed be giving up a pension of £2,477 per annum  from age 60 
(this is different to paperwork from the OPS  provider,  which  showed the projected 
pension was £3,741 from age 60, with a lump  sum of £11,224)
It was noted that Mr S wanted  to take tax free cash, but not income,  in order to pay 
down debt and make home improvements
Mr Ss risk profile suggested he was a moderately  cautious  investor.  Based on this 
risk classification, Portafina  estimated a personal pension would grow  at a rate of 
4.81%, not including advice and plan charges
The required growth rate (critical yield)  needed for a new personal pension  plan 
(PPP) to match the benefits Mr S was entitled  to through his OPS was 26.6%.  But if 
Mr S used  income drawdown  to access benefits, instead of purchasing an annuity, 
then over his lifetime the investment  return needed to match his OPS  was 3.23% per 
year
It was noted that the difference between the hurdle rate and critical yield had arisen  
because the TVAS  assumes you will use the CETV to purchase a poor value 
annuity and that there  will be no change to todays low interest rates.  In our opinion  
this is an unlikely  outcome and therefore the critical yield shown by the TVAS  may be 
far higher  than the return you need
Ref: DRN32350812Although Portafina wasnt  providing  advice regarding where Mr Ss fund would be 
invested after a transfer  this would be given by Firm C  it set out its fund 
recommendations suggesting that, due to his risk profile,  Mr S should  invest  in the 
following assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 40%
Other Fixed Interest 22%
Secured Structured  Bonds 28%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and could 
only be recommended  by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)  
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds  werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations  relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds  werent unstable and therefore  reduced the overall  volatility of Mr Ss 
portfolio.
The recommended  SIPP was established in 2014  and Mr Ss OPS  CETV was transferred 
afterwards. The servicing rights for the SIPP were later transferred over to Firm C, who 
invested approximately 37% (£24,000) of Mr Ss SIPP into the following UCIS funds:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £3,600
Biomass Investments  £5,600 
Lakeview UK Invest  £5,600
Real Estate USA  £5,600
Strategic Residential  Development  £3,600
A small  amount was left as cash and the remainder was allocated to regulated investments.
In 2018, Mr S complained to Portafina  about the advice  he received to transfer. He said the 
advice was negligent and unsuitable for someone with no investment experience, a low 
attitude to risk and low capacity for loss. He also considered  that Portafina couldnt  make its 
transfer recommendation without taking responsibility for assessing the underlying SIPP  
investments. 
The business original response  was that Mr S did not have a complaint against Portafina.  
And it provided a call recording from 11 May 2018  which it said proved  that Mr Ss 
representative was exploiting his confusion about  what was going on so . The adjudicator 
informed Portafina  that, in spite  of the call, a complaint had been raised against it and so it 
had eight weeks to respond. Portafina  didnt issue a final response letter  and the case was 
assessed by the adjudicator in the knowledge that it wouldnt be issuing one.
After considering the matter, the adjudicator concluded that Mr Ss complaint should be 
upheld. She didnt think Portafinas advice  was suitable. In summary, her view said:
She could not see any comparison of the charges applied by the SIPP and those  of 
the OPS
The critical yield was very high and it should  have  been explained that the level of 
growth required to match  his OPS benefits  was unlikely to have been consistently  
achievable with his moderately cautious risk profile
Ref: DRN32350813The risks were  set out, but this doesnt mean  that Portafina werent required to give 
suitable advice.  The risks were brief and non-specific and didnt adequately explain 
the potential implications of the transfer
Portafina said it was only responsible  for the advice to transfer and Firm C advised 
on the fund selection.  Firm C had invested the monies into high risk funds. Had Mr 
Ss attitude to risk been taken into account  when Portafina  advised him, it would have 
been aware that the advice would  be unsuitable
Mr S wasnt an experienced investor  and therefore didnt require  control of his 
retirement fund. Furthermore,  Mr S was single and she didnt consider the transfer of 
100% of his fund to named beneficiaries  wouldve been a priority  for him.
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings. In summary, it has said:
There was no comparison of charges between the occupational scheme and the 
recommended plan as its not possible to compare charges in a final salary  scheme  
where the fees are implicit in the plan
Mr S needed tax free cash earlier than normal scheme retirement  age in order  to pay 
off outstanding debt and make home  improvements, but didnt need an income at 
that time.  He liked the idea of Portafina facilitating the transfer into income drawdown 
in order to do so
Portafina noted Mr S had a heart  condition  and if he annuitized later,  might  get an 
enhanced annuity  on the open market. This could potentially outweigh or match the 
guarantees attached to his ceding  scheme
As income drawdown had been  proposed, it had used the lifetime  hurdle rate, 3.23%, 
as a more accurate  means of measuring  the ceding  scheme benefits. Its model 
portfolio showed  a growth rate of 4.81% was achievable for a moderately cautious  
investor
The death benefits were very important to the customer. The fact find questionnaire 
showed that hed confirmed it was very important to maximise death  benefits for his 
beneficiaries
The subsequent  investment advice  was the responsibility of Firm C 
Portafina also provided a copy of the call recording from 2014. And since  its final 
submissions, this service  has written  to Portafina  to reference the regulators update  from 
2013 for firms giving pension transfer advice.  
The complaint has been passed  to me to reach  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing this, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Portafina recommended that Mr S transfer his OPS to a SIPP  but it says that it didnt provide 
advice as to the investments within the SIPP because  this was being  provided by Firm C. So 
in the suitability letter, Portafina based its recommendation on an example portfolio for a 
balanced risk investor.
Ref: DRN32350814Mr S accepted the recommendation and Portafina  arranged for the SIPP  to be set up, the 
OPS to be transferred  and for the funds to be fully invested in cash. Shortly  after this was 
completed, the servicing rights  for the SIPP were transferred to Firm C. Firm C subsequently 
arranged for the SIPP funds  to purchase  a number of investments, five of which  were  
unregulated. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  Even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise  on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments. This 
remains the case even  if Firm C was actually providing that advice. This is a fundamental 
requirement of advising  on a transfer  into a SIPP. Portafina cant  say that its only 
responsible for the SIPP transfer itself;  it needed to have an understanding  of the proposed 
investments before it could determine  the transfer was in Mr Ss best interest. 
In 2013, the regulator  at the time issued an alert about advising on pension  transfers with 
a view to investing  pension monies  into unregulated products through  a SIPP.  This alert 
was issued because  it had come to the regulators notice that some firms were adopting 
advice models which  didnt comply with the existing obligations and so there was a 
potential for consumer detriment. 
The regulator made its position clear  in the alert,  where it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle  for investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected  underlying  investments in unregulated schemes. It should 
be particularly clear  to financial advisers that, where  a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer  in implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer  must  take account  of the overall investment strategy the customer  is 
contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the 
regulated elements
In the scenario set out in this alert, the other firm involved  was unregulated. In Mr Ss 
case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement  with 
Firm S. Portafina  may believe that this absolved it from its duty to assess  the suitability of 
the investments,  particularly as it may have  said to Mr S that it wasnt  providing any 
advice on the underlying  investments as Firm C was doing that. But the update makes it 
clear that it wasnt open to Portafina  to provide advice on a restricted  basis. It couldnt 
separate out the two elements; its advice on the suitability of the transfer had to include  
the suitability of the underlying investments. 
The position  on this is further supported by a subsequent alert issued by the regulator,  on 
28 April 2014, regarding  pension  transfer  and switches. Again, this alert didnt follow  the 
introduction of new regulations but restated the existing  position. The regulator  said it was 
alerting firms to our requirements  when they give advice on self-invested personal  
pensions (SIPPS), giving our view and key messages . It included  the following: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  
Ref: DRN32350815through a SIPP,  then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer.  If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable. If a firm does not fully understand 
the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle, the wrapper  and the expected  underlying investments 
and whether or not such investments were regulated products. It said, despite the initial alert 
(in January 2013), some  firms continued to adopt  a model which  purportedly  restricted 
advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a pension transfer 
or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing pension  arrangement  
and the underlying investments intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Im conscious that both the 2013  and 2014 alert were  issued  prior to Mr S receiving advice  
and so Portafina ought to have known that it needed  to do this. 
As it told Mr S it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying investments, Portafina may 
have been under the impression that this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis; 
this wasnt right. It couldnt  separate out the two elements. Its advice on the suitability of the 
transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont think there was 
any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
These alerts dont have  the status  of a Handbook rule as such,  nonetheless I consider them 
to be a relevant  indicator of the standards expected by the regulator in these circumstances, 
as well as a helpful indicator of what good industry  practice looked like at the time.  And both 
alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching  Principles  for Businesses (PRIN) 
and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with reference 
to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations  under these 
precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt 
be able to recommend  a new product,  like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr S under the regulatory  system. So, even if it said it was operating under a limited  retainer, 
this didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure  the advice it was providing was suitable   
again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ss funds  would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr S. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain  enough  
information from Mr S to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could  bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, 
where relevant,  information on the length  of time for which he wishes  to hold the 
investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes  of 
the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ss objectives  two of 
which were recorded  as a willingness to take more risk and to take ownership and control  
Ref: DRN32350816and the related risks. If Mr S wanted  to take on more risk, it is reasonable to have 
investigated what additional level of risk Firm C was going to expose  him to. It wasnt  free to 
ignore how Mr Ss funds  were going to be invested irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I 
consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating 
to the SIPP,  so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without knowing what  Mr S 
would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem reasonably possible.
After Portafina gave advice the agency  for Mr Ss SIPP was transferred to Firm C and it was 
Firm C that recommended  the high risk and Illiquid investments. However, the alerts make it 
clear that a firm that is asked to advise on a pension  transfer needs to be aware of the 
intended investments  before it advises on the transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. 
So, Portafina shouldve  requested this information  from Firm C before providing advice. And, 
as confirmed in the alert, if it didnt fully understand the underlying investment proposition  
intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or 
switch at all. 
The regulators rules do allow for situations  where two regulated  firms are involved. In 
particular, the rules state: 
COBS 2.4.6R(2). 
A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires 
it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.8G
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a 
firm to rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected 
authorised person or a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought  
reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give reasonable  grounds to 
question the accuracy  of that information.
These rules  essentially mean  that a firm can rely on information provided to it by another 
regulated firm, where it is reasonable to do so. The rule is stated to apply to situations 
where a firm is required by a handbook rule to obtain the information  in question from 
another person.  However, in this case,  Portafina failed to obtain any information from Firm 
C about the intended investment proposition for Mr S.  
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ss appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ss best interests. And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ss funds would  be invested. 
Even if Portafina completed due diligence checks on Firm C before agreeing to accept 
client referrals  from it, this in my view would havent  have  been enough. It couldnt rely on 
general information provided  to it; that wouldnt have been a reasonable basis for Portafina 
to have assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr S. I wouldve expected 
Portafina to request details upfront from Firm C as to the intended  portfolio for Mr S and 
Firm Cs risk rating. Without  this information,  Im not satisfied that Portafina  could 
reasonably assess  the suitability  of the transfer.
Ref: DRN32350817Had Portafina requested this information and it had been advised that Firm C intended to 
invest Mr S in a number of UCIS, then it couldve questioned this, given how at odds it was 
with his established attitude to risk. And in the event  that Portafina  had been misled by 
Firm C as to the proposed investments, then its likely Mr S wouldve realised that the 
investments Firm C went on to arrange differed to those Portafina  had based its suitability 
assessment on. And Mr S couldve taken  action accordingly.
Im conscious that, despite Portafina  saying  that Firm C was to provide the investment 
advice, it did set out in in its suitability report its recommendations  for the asset  classes Mr S 
should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations  made up a model portfolio for a 
moderately cautious investor, which  Portafina satisfied itself Mr S was. 
However, I dont agree  the model portfolio was suitable Mr Ss attitude to risk in any event. I 
say this because  the model  portfolio suggested  that 28% of the pension fund should  be 
invested in secure  structured bonds . These are described in the suitability report as asset  
back debt securities that are issued for a fix term. The report goes on to explain that these 
are not covered by the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS).  And that there  
are credit risks - due to the possibility  of the company  borrowing the money going into 
default - and liquidity  risks. In my view,  this puts them at the higher end of the risk spectrum  
and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor,  with a fairly 
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 28% of 
Mr Ss pension  fund in unregulated and potentially illiquid funds,  wouldve  been suitable for a 
client in Mr Ss position. 
What was Portafina required  to do?
I think its important to explain that regardless of anyone elses part in the matter Portafina 
had to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the overarching 
Principles for Businesses. Principles 1 (integrity ), 2 (skill,  care and diligence ), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out 
the rules regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R 
required Portafina to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mr S. It had to obtain information as to Mr Ss 
knowledge and experience (relevant  to the specific type of designated investment), 
his financial situation  and investment objectives.
As set above, COBS  9.2.2R required Portafina  to gather sufficient information from Mr S to 
ensure the recommendation met his objectives,  he could bear the risks involved and he 
had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction.
Under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
The advice  to transfer the OPS
Having considered whether, in recommending the transfer, Portafina reasonably had regard 
to the expected investment proposition for Mr S as a whole, Ill now consider whether the 
transfer ought to have  been recommended in any event. In other words, even if Portafina 
Ref: DRN32350818had considered the intended investments, was the transfer likely to have been  suitable for 
Mr S in any event?
OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving these up and subjecting 
future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable investment returns  should  
only be done where it can be shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. 
The COBS  guidance  (COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  will be in the consumers best interests.  And 
generally, a transfer  will only be in the consumers  best interests if theres  a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr S was 58 years  old and unemployed. He was a standard 
retail investor with seven  years until his desired retirement age and two years  until his OPS 
became payable. Aside from his state  pension  entitlement, his OPS represented his sole 
retirement provision.  There  was no record of Mr S having any other  savings or investments.  
He had outstanding debts  and lived in rented accommodation. It seems to me Mr Ss OPS 
was his most  valuable  asset. It provided  a guaranteed income at retirement with increases 
throughout his retirement. Based on this, I think Portafina shouldve recognised the 
significance of Mr Ss OPS and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS  meant  that Mr S would be losing his guarantees and instead  relying  on 
investment performance  from a new scheme. But I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks.  I think it shouldve been  clear that while Mr S may have been open  to taking 
some risk, he really wasnt in any position  to expose  his only source of private income to any 
level of potential loss. 
Before continuing,  I feel it is necessary to highlight a disparity in the income figures provided 
by Mr Ss ceding scheme and those used by Portafina in their suitability report. 
The retirement information provided by his OPS on 5 November 2013 stated that Mr S would 
receive a pension of £3,741 from age 60, along  with a lump sum payment of £11,224. 
However, the suitability  report shows he was giving  up a lower guaranteed  income  of £2,477  
from age 60 and no figure was given for any level of tax free cash. This difference in the 
level of guaranteed income Mr S was giving up wouldve had a significant impact on the 
growth figures needed to match the benefits being  given up.
As he was only two years away from retirement,  I would be inclined to accept his OPS 
figures above the ones quoted with Portafinas report. It is unclear from the information  on 
file whether the pension transfer  value  analysis report (TVAS) used this higher level of 
income when calculating the critical  yield,  or if the lower  pension amount of £2,477 was the 
target. For ease of understanding  by all parties I have used the same  income  and growth 
figures Portafina relied upon in their suitability report for the rest of my decision.  
Ref: DRN32350819The TVAS  completed  at time showed that a critical yield of 26.6% per year was required to 
match benefits from the OPS. But made no allowance for advice, plan or other ongoing 
charges. This meant the growth needed just to match  the benefits being  given up was 
understated. Like the adjudicator, I feel the growth required  to provide an increase in 
benefits for Mr S was too high to make the transfer  viable. 
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed)  the benefits  that are being  given up by transferring  out of the OPS.  And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including  the investors  
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator  required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension  scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension  scheme  or 
stakeholder pension scheme,  before  it advises  a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits  pension scheme;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3.give the retail client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the retail client's attention to 
the factors that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key 
features document is provided;  and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's  comparison 
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1.take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr S would receive  a materially  higher pension  
at retirement as a result  of transferring. This is supported in the suitability report where 
Portafina estimated  that, based  on Mr Ss moderately cautious attitude to risk, his personal 
pension would grow  at a rate of 4.8%. 
Portafina said that it did not base  its recommendation  on the critical yield in isolation and 
also considered  the lifetime hurdle  rate, which assumed  he would take regular withdrawals 
throughout the duration of his life expectancy. They believed  that the hurdle rate of 3.23% 
Ref: DRN323508110was achievable,  based on their model portfolio. As Portafina were  not advising on how the 
funds were to be invested,  their projections of performance  based  on their own model 
portfolios were not relevant  in evaluating  how likely it was he would be able to achieve the 
hurdle rate.
That said,  the discount rate which we would use to assess what rates are reasonably 
achievable is 4.2% for a term to age 60 and 4.5%  for a term to age 65, so was similar  to 
Portafinas rate of 4.8%.  Therefore a moderately  cautious investor might expect to be able to 
achieve the required rate of 3.23%. 
However, no explanation was given  by Portafina,  either in their report from 2014 or as part of 
their response to the complaint  to demonstrate why Mr S did not want the security  of a 
guaranteed income in retirement, or why he preferred to take his income  via drawdown 
instead. For instance, as his only income  in retirement would  be state pension, it is doubtful 
Mr S would be in a position to take advantage of flexi-access drawdown and reduce or stop 
income payments  in any one year.
At no time during the call recording from 2014 which Portafina have provided did Mr S ever 
volunteer a reason why he did not want an annuity, or say why he wanted to take his income 
via drawdown. For instance, when he was asked if he would prefer  to have more flexibility 
with the plan, the customer  did not understand the question  and asked  if it could be put in 
writing  so that I can understand  that a little bit more. The representative spoke about 
flexibility, without confirming that Mr S understood any of what he was telling him. He then 
moved on without pausing or checking if he had any questions and Mr S did not contribute  at 
all to this topic. In short, the representative did not even check  to see why, let alone  how, 
Mr S would want to take benefits flexibly. 
Page two of the suitability report lists the first of Mr Ss objectives as Would  like to take later 
retirement age to scheme normal retirement age. No reason was provided why Mr S wanted 
to delay taking  his pension. The scheme retirement age was 65, but he could take his 
benefits from age 60, although this would reduce the income  received,  along with the lump 
sum. The consumer  was 58 and unemployed and I do not believe that he would realistically  
want to prolong the period which he was completely reliant upon state benefits and not able 
to take his pension. 
His projected pension  from age 60 was £3,741.42 p/a, with a lump sum of £11,224.27, 
according to the CETV provided  by the scheme.  Mr S could easily clear his debts and 
secure a guaranteed income by taking his benefits at age 60, rather than transferring and 
deferring income until age 65 or beyond. This would have the added  benefit of guaranteed  
income for an extra five years, with no risk of loss. As his recorded debts amounted to 
£2,500, I do not believe  that the lower  tax free cash would have a significant  impact on his 
circumstances, especially when the regular income from his pension would exceed the 
difference within three years.
While there  is no doubt that Mr S would have wanted to clear his debt as early as possible,  
by October 2014 he was only 18 months away from being able to take his OPS benefits  and 
lump sum. This would  provide a high enough  lump sum to repay  his loan and still leave 
several thousand pounds for home  improvements. As Mr S lived in rented accommodation, 
its likely  any improvements would  only be of a cosmetic nature and relatively  inexpensive. 
And in all likelihood could be delayed until such a time as he had the funds  to complete the 
work. There was no discussion around this alternative and there was no need for Mr S to 
expose his pension assets to any risk in order to meet his main objective of paying off debt.
Ref: DRN323508111Portafina set out in their report that, if Mr S  used his tax free cash  to repay his loan, he 
could redirect his repayments into his pension fund.  I dont believe that this was a realistic 
prospect, when the payments of £61 a month make up almost 15% of his monthly  income of 
£411. Furthermore, the figures used do not appear to be accurate, when the report states 
that if he continued to pay his debt from income, he will have made total repayments  of 
£26,671. 
His debt was £2,500. The monthly repayment  of £61 equates  to £732 a year. A market 
average APR of 10.55% on £2,500 is £263.75,  so the loan would be reduced by 
approximately £468 after one year (£732-£263.75). A net payment of £468  each  year would 
clear the debt within five and a half years and that is without  allowing  for any reduction in the 
interest accruing  on the lower capital amount. £61 a month over five and a half years would 
result in total payments of £4,026. The benefits  in repaying the debt early were massively  
overstated by the adviser.
Mr S liked the idea of leaving  as much as possible to his family on death, but this has to be 
weighed against  the likelihood of this happening early enough to be a significant  benefit, 
along with the actual  benefits being given  up. He had no dependents and was giving up a 
lifetime of guaranteed income to provide a notional benefit to his siblings and father, when 
there was no evidence that they would have any need for the cash (or in the case  of his 
father even  outlive him). The longer he lived, the more of his pension he would spend, 
thereby reducing  the fund which could be passed on. In order for his beneficiaries to receive 
a large lump  sum, Mr S would have  to die in the early  years of his retirement  and there is no 
reason to believe this was likely,  despite  the heart condition  Portafina  have referenced.
Portafina have  argued that his health  condition meant that he could take an annuity  later if 
he wanted and benefit from enhanced rates which could match or even exceed his OPS  
pension. This ignores  the fact that the critical yield was already high at 26% and once the 
lump sum withdrawal had been accounted  for, there is little chance that an equivalent 
income could be purchased from the remaining funds. Furthermore, as far as I can tell, 
Portafina did not attempt to get any quotes  for annuities with enhanced rates to see how 
much it would cost to purchase the same  benefits,  so this argument is purely speculative.
Overall, Im not persuaded the advice to transfer  was suitable. The business should have 
advised against transferring and risking a lower standard of living just to provide a larger 
inheritance for his family  and pay off his loan 18 months earlier.
Would Mr S have gone ahead  with the transfer anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to transfer, Mr S 
would have gone ahead anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances in this 
case, I dont believe  he would. While there  is no doubt that the availability of tax free cash 
would have been appealing to him, especially when he was out of work,  had it been 
explained that he would receive  far more  in the long term by waiting  another 18 months, I 
believe Mr S would have  accepted the advice of the Portafina. 
As a professional adviser,  which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr S from proceeding with the transfer  and subsequent investments.  I accept  its 
possible Mr S may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made him think  about things. 
Ref: DRN323508112Alternatively, had Mr S proceeded against such advice,  Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mr S was acting against the advice hed 
been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr S are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Portafina. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont  believe 
he would  have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS or invested more  than half of his 
fund in UCIS.
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ss loss?
Im satisfied that the advice Portafina  provided  was unsuitable and the losses  suffered 
by Mr S are as a result of its inappropriate advice to him to transfer  his OPS to a SIPP.  
And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, Mr S wouldnt  have been in a position to 
invest as he did through  Firm C. Because  of this I consider Portafina wholly 
responsible for Mr Ss resulting losses.
Im not asking Portafina to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the loss in question. I 
recognise that Firm Cs actions may also have contributed  to Mr Ss loss. So I have  
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think its fair to make an award for the 
whole loss against Portafina.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to advise  about the transfer  of deferred OPS  benefits, it referred Mr S to 
Portafina. Portafina advised Mr S to transfer  to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP  and arranged for 
the OPS. I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr S to invest a significant  share  of his SIPP 
funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained,  Portafinas understanding  that it could reasonably  limit 
its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP  was wrong; it needed to consider  the proposed 
investments too, even  if Firm C was advising Mr S on the investments. It was only as a result  
of Portafinas  involvement that Mr S accessed  the funds in his OPS. Portafinas  role was 
pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the transfer taking place; if Mr S 
hadnt transferred,  he couldnt have invested  as he did. And, as was clearly  set out in the 
regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  Portafina  couldnt  restrict  its advice  merely  to 
the transfer;  it had to consider  the proposed  investments  for Mr S, which  it didnt  do. 
As Ive said above,  Im also not satisfied  that the suggested  portfolio  that was set out in 
the suitability  report  was suitable  for Mr S. So, while  I accept  that Firm C might  also bear 
some  responsibility  for Mr Ss losses,  Im satisfied  that had it not been  for Portafinas  
failings,  Mr S wouldnt  have  suffered  a loss at all.
Ref: DRN323508113I appreciate  that Firm C is in liquidation  but Im aware  that, as a fund of last resort,  the 
FSCS  wont  pay out on claims  where  it is aware  that another  firm was involved  in the 
transaction,  and it considers  that firm might  also be responsible  for a consumers  losses.  
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm C is now in liquidation. My starting point  as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr S suffered in 
transferring to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
Portafina couldve prevented the transfer  and the investments. Instead it facilitated  them,  
having given unsuitable advice to Mr S that he should transfer.   Mr S hasnt complained 
about Firm C and in light of its liquidation,  there  would be little point in him doing so.  He  has 
complained about Portafina and because of what I have said,  it is, in my view, fair and 
reasonable that Portafina should account  to him for the full extent of his losses.  
So, for the reasons  given,  Im satisfied  that Portafina  is responsible  for Mr Ss losses.  
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina  must  therefore  undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms on how to calculate  
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance  of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Portafina must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mr S. Portafina need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments 
currently planned by the FCA. Portafina  does not subsequently  need  to recalculate following 
any further amendments  the regulator  might later make. 
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr S in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ss contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
Ref: DRN323508114If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within  90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must 
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr S to the position he would have been  in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  investments are illiquid  (meaning  they cannot  be readily 
sold on the open market),  as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case 
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should  include anything Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mr S to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused  as a 
result of the disruption  to his retirement planning.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN323508115Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3235081