K820x#14Complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc cant find £3,000 she was saving on behalf  of a 
family member. 
Background
Mrs D has told us that in 1999  a family member asked her to put £3,000  into a savings 
account to cover future funeral  costs. Mrs D opened  a TESSA which was accessed  via a 
passbook. 
Santanders records show that £3,720.97 was transferred from the TESSA (account number 
18073788) into an ISA (account number K7325091) on 27 January 2044. On 1 April 2004 
the account received £5.44  interest. The records show  that on 11 June 2004  the ISA was 
closed and the funds were  withdrawn from the account. 
Mrs D contacted Santander in 2017  after her family member experienced some ill health.  
Mrs D wanted to check on the funds saved. But Santander wasnt able to find an open 
account with the money she saved. Mrs D complained but Santander said it hadnt been 
able to trace  the funds previously held in the ISA and that there was only limited information 
because of the amount of time thats passed. 
Mrs D referred  the complaint to our service  but Santander raised  an objection to us looking 
into what happened because of the events  raised  took place in 2004.  I previously issued  a 
decision setting out why our service  can look at the merits of Mrs Ds complaint. 
An investigator looked at the merits of Mrs Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that 
Santander had provided statements to show the ISA was closed in June  2004.  She also said 
that because the events  raised occurred in 2004 there was only limited information available 
now. The investigator  said Santander  had searched  its records  and hadnt found  an open 
savings account  with the missing money.  Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs D is so concerned about  the location  of the money in this case as 
she was holding it on behalf of a close family member with the intention of using the funds to 
pay for their funeral. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs D but Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator, for the same  reasons. I realise this may feel harsh to Mrs D 
but I have to take the available evidence into account when making my decision.  
Mrs D has an old passbook which she says shows money was saved.  But Santander has 
provided clear evidence from its records and systems that shows in January 2004  a new 
account was opened for Mrs D  the ISA. This account remained open for around six months 
but the statements show it was closed on 11 June  2004. Im satisfied from what  Ive seen 
that both the original  TESSA and the ISA Mrs D had were  closed  by 11 June 2004.  I know  
Mrs D says that the ISA remained open with £3,000 in it but the evidence doesnt  show that. 
It shows the ISA was closed on 11 June 2004. 
Ref: DRN38259332If the missing funds had been moved into another Santander account Id expect it to be able 
to locate it by searching its systems and records. If the account was now listed  as dormant 
Id expect it to appear on a dormant account search.  Santander  has provided evidence of the 
searches it completed  using Mrs Ds personal details. Santanders search  located  several  
accounts, both open and closed, in Mrs Ds name  but hasnt found another  savings account 
with the missing funds.  I think its more  likely  than not that if Santander  had an open savings 
account for Mrs D with these funds  it would have been found. 
Unfortunately the information we now have available is limited because  the account  was 
closed around  13 years before Mrs D complained.  Businesses  dont have to keep 
information for longer than six years. In this case,  Santander was able to go back to 2004 
but the records only show that the ISA was closed, not what happened  to the money  next. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs D as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But I 
think Santander has provided strong evidence to show the ISA closed on 11 June 2004 and 
that it doesnt hold the funds in another account  for Mrs D. As I havent found any evidence 
of a mistake by Santander Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3825933