K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that the retirement  plan he took out with The Prudential  Assurance  
Company Limited  was mis-sold. This is because it is now projected  to only pay him 10% of 
what he was originally  quoted.
background
In 1984, Mr W received an illustration for a retirement plan with Prudential. For a gross 
monthly premium of £20, the illustration showed he could  have  total pension  on retirement of 
£31,815 or a tax-free cash sum of £63,939 and a reduced annual  pension of £18,457.  Mr W 
started the retirement  plan in March 1985. 
But Mr Ws annual  pension statement for 2017 projected that he would  receive a cash  sum 
of £11,100 on his retirement  date with a yearly  pension of £1,950.
Mr W complained  that he believed the plan had been mis-sold to him.
Prudential said that Mr Ws plan had a guaranteed basic annuity to which  bonuses are 
added. It said the illustration he was given in 1984 was only a prediction  of what  might 
happen based on assumed rates of return which werent guaranteed.  And these rates have 
been revised over the years as lower returns have been seen. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ws complaint. She said the illustration Mr W 
received showed  a guaranteed annuity  of £1,466.42  but the values and projected income 
shown werent guaranteed. She was satisfied that this was clear  from the plan information  
Mr W was given. She didnt think Prudential should  be responsible  for the assumed rates of 
return not being achieved. 
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  He said that the complaint had been viewed in 
simple back and white terms,  but there was a grey area because  he accepted the plan might 
not offer exactly what was quoted  but wouldnt have expected to receive less than 10% of 
that amount.  Mr W asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed  that his retirement  plan wont  achieve what 
was illustrated to him when he started it, particularly as he will understandably  have taken 
this into account  when planning for his level of income in retirement. And I understand his 
point that he doesnt feel such a difference  is reasonable, despite this pension amount not 
being guaranteed. 
Mr Ws plan operates on a with-profits basis. Its an annuity based  pension made up of a 
guaranteed basic  annuity  and annual bonuses, together  with final bonuses  and underlying  
interest rates which arent guaranteed. 
Ref: DRN32038842Non-guaranteed final bonuses can be reduced at any point. The projections for Mr Ws plan 
are based  on an assumption of a return on the investment  on the with-profits fund and the 
guaranteed and non-guaranteed  bonuses  Prudential may add. The actual bonuses applied 
will also be dependent  on the performance of the with-profits fund over time. And it is a 
matter of commercial judgement on Prudentials part as to how it manages  its with-profits 
fund and what level of bonus it applies.  
Ive considered Mr Ws copy  of his illustration together with the booklet explaining the plan.
And the booklet  gives an illustration of the bonuses and sets out that It is emphasised  that, 
whilst the bonuses assumed in this illustration are based on the rates  most  recently  
declared, no guarantee as to future bonuses can be given. Bonuses  depend mainly on 
investment returns and are currently at an historically high level.  It must be expected that in 
the event of a decline  in the rate of inflation  there  will be a tendency for investment returns  - 
and hence, in due course,  bonuses - to be lower.
And the copy of the illustration Mr W has provided from the time of the sale says It is 
emphasised that no guarantee as to future bonuses can be given  bonuses can go down as 
well as up..
So I dont  think Mr Ws retirement plan was mis-sold  to him when the information he was 
given does say how the pension is made up and that there  are elements of this that cant  be 
guaranteed. However I appreciate that the projected  values are now much less than they 
were in 1984, and that it was based on these that Mr W made  his decision to take out this 
retirement plan. 
But I dont think Prudential has acted  unfairly  or inappropriately  when  it illustrated  the 
potential growth bonuses and income he might receive. This is because,  as Ive explained 
above, it did say future  bonuses werent guaranteed.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3203884