K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont acknowledge a mistake  its made  
over a deposit she made into a passbook account.
background
Mrs C says she paid £400 into the account in £1 coins in January 2018. But when she made 
another deposit in June 2018 she noticed Nationwide  had only entered  £4 in the passbook. 
She thinks the branch staff members  are not being honest.
Nationwide said all the tills at the branch balanced at the end of that day. And the credit slip 
Mrs C used to make  the deposit only showed shed paid in four £1 coins.
The adjudicator didnt think Nationwide had done anything  wrong.  She couldnt see there  
was anything to suggest the cashier had made  any mistake.
Mrs C wanted a copy of Nationwides  written procedure about  where  credit  slips are stored 
and she wanted  an investigation into other complaints against  Nationwide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is contradictory  as it 
is here, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely  to have happened.
We cant tell Nationwide  to disclose its internal processes and procedures to Mrs C. And we 
deal with each  complaint  on its own merits. 
Nationwides tills balanced at the end of the day. And Mrs C tells us that when she 
complained it showed  her the relevant credit slip with a deposit  of £4. Nationwide confirmed 
there hadnt been any other complaints of this nature against  either  the cashier or the 
branch.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mrs C paid £4 into the passbook  account in January 
2018. Im sure Mrs Cs brought this complaint to us in good faith, but for the reasons Ive 
given I dont have  sufficient evidence to conclude  Nationwide has done anything wrong.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3704395