K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining that a truck Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) supplied him under a hire 
purchase agreement  wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
In February 2018  Mr S entered  into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a truck. The truck 
was around four years old and had travelled around 99,500 miles. Mr S paid £13,200  for it. 
In August  2018  the truck  broke  down  and the engine  overheated. So Mr S arranged for it to 
be recovered back to the garage  that sold it (the garage). Mr S initially looked to have the 
repairs carried out under  the trucks  warranty. There was a dispute over the cause of the 
breakdown as the garage thought the issue was down to the EGR cooling valve.  But Mr S 
arranged for the truck to be inspected by an independent engineer who thought the head 
gasket had failed.
The warranty company  arranged for a repair to be carried out on the truck and the truck was 
returned to him. But Mr S says the truck broke down again 10 minutes after he collected it. 
Mr S says that the warranty company wouldnt  cover  any further repairs  and told him the 
truck was no longer  under warranty.
Mr S then complained to BMF as he says it had a responsibility to repair  the truck. BMF said 
that Mr S had driven around 7,000  miles in the truck  since  he acquired it. So it doesnt think  
theres anything to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of sale. It also 
provided a further  independent inspection report which  also concluded the fault was down to 
the EGR  cooling valve, which it said formed part of the cooling system.
Mr S has since taken  the truck to a manufacturing dealership (the manufacturer) whos said 
that the truck  needs a new engine  and turbo  and has quoted around £6,500 to repair it. Mr S 
doesnt think he should have to carry out such a significant repair  on a truck he paid £13,200  
for.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2019  not upholding  this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Mr S acquired  the truck under a hire purchase agreement.  Legislation implies  a term into 
the hire purchase  agreement that the truck  must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier 
and finance provider, BMF is responsible for the quality of the truck  its provided under the 
agreement. Theres  no dispute that theres  a fault with the truck, but the issue is whether that 
fault makes the truck of unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied.
In deciding whether  this truck was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  Mr S paid around 
£13,200 for the truck.  The truck was around four years old and had travelled around  99,500  
miles at the point of supply. 
The issue  here is whether  those  problems were likely to have been  present or developing at 
the time of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used truck. Ive also 
considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such  as Mr S 
has experienced in a truck of this price, age and mileage  in short  is the truck sufficiently 
durable. I have also considered whether  there is anything persuasive  to indicate that Mr S 
Ref: DRN31634152has caused the damage in some way (such  as through an accident  or improper 
maintenance).
BMF doesnt  think the truck was of unsatisfactory quality  as it says Mr S was able to drive 
the truck  for around  7,000 miles since he received it. So it doesnt think the fault could have 
been present  at the point  of sale. It accepted  it might  have been developing at the time. But 
it says that, given the truck had already travelled around 99,500 miles when Mr S received  it, 
it didnt think this made the truck  of unsatisfactory quality.
I note one of the independent reports sets out that the fault would have developed over a 
period of time  i.e. he didnt  think it was a sudden failure. He also said that theres nothing 
to show it failed due to impact damage. However,  most importantly, it said it is most 
improbable that the failure  is a latent manufacturing  defect  given  the time in service. I think 
its unlikely that Mr S could have  been  able to drive around 7,000  in the truck if the fault had 
been present  when  he first acquired the truck. 
I note Mr S doesnt think its reasonable he should have to incur  a repair cost of around  
£6,500 for a vehicle he paid around  £13,200  for after only six months.  I recognise  Mr S didnt 
pay an insignificant sum of money  for the truck.  But it also has to be noted that the truck had 
already travelled around 99,500 by the time he acquired it. So I think  its fair that Mr S 
needed to have expected  a fair amount  of wear and tear on the truck by the time he acquired 
it. Ultimately, I think thats the risk of buying  a used second hand  vehicle  with a high mileage. 
And its not unreasonable for issues to arise on a vehicle of such  high mileage sooner than 
one would expect  on a newer  vehicle.
It seems  to me that the breakdown didnt occur  due to a manufacturing defect,  but due to 
natural wear  and tear of the truck. I dont dispute  that this fault may have been developing 
when Mr S first acquired the truck. But, as I said, its not unreasonable  to expect a fair 
amount of wear and tear to it given its high mileage. The issue  for me to decide  is whether  
this would make the truck of unsatisfactory quality.  And, in deciding  this, I have to think  
whether a reasonable person would consider it unreasonable for such a fault to be present 
given the mileage of the truck.  And, importantly, both reports  carried  out on the truck has set 
out that the issues are likely to be as a result  of usage. Given  this, I think  this is in line with 
the number of miles its been driven in its lifetime.
Ultimately, I have to take into account that he was able to drive the truck for around  7,000 
miles since Mr S got it and the high mileage at point  of supply. So, given my comments 
above and the comments of the independent engineers, I dont think  I can say that it was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of sale. And, it follows, that I dont think  BMF  are required 
to compensate Mr S for the issues hes had with the truck.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision. In summary,  he said the CRA states that if a fault 
is reported within six months of purchase its the responsibility of the seller  to prove the fault 
wasnt present at point  of sale,  not for the consumer to prove  it was. He said that, as the 
seller stated in an email the truck  wasnt serviced  before the sale, he doesnt  think the truck 
had been serviced  since  October 2017.  So he doesnt think the seller had done enough to 
prove that the issue wasnt present  at point of sale. And he wants us to require the seller  to 
show that the truck had been  serviced prior to it being sold to him.
Mr S said that its for the seller to show that, given there was a fault with the truck, it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. He said that he made every attempt to 
return the truck within the first six months that he had it.
Ref: DRN31634153Mr S also thought that the warranty policy sold to him had been  mis-sold. He says that the 
warranty policy sets out that, if there hadnt been a service before the purchase, then the 
policy sets out that the warranty provider will ensure that at least  one maintenance 
inspection of the truck is carried out during the term of the agreement. But he says that this 
wasnt carried out. 
Mr S said that when he bought the truck he was lead to believe that he was entitled to a 
premium warranty  for six months  which  covered breakdown and repairs, including  engine 
and gear box cover  up to £5,000. He said he initially reported the issue  to the warranty  
provider within the initial six months.  After the truck was first returned to him, he said he was 
able to drive around  10 miles  before it broke down again. But he said the warranty company 
said the warranty had now lapsed.  He thinks this is unfair as he thinks the warranty policy 
should have been put on hold while it was being repaired  and restarted once  it was 
collected. So he thinks the issues should  have been  covered under his warranty.
Finally Mr S said that the average life expectancy  of a truck is around 13 years and he said 
his truck was only four years old when he acquired  it. And he says, while the truck had 
travelled around  99,600 miles when he acquired  it, it had only travelled around 7,500  miles  
in the nine months before he acquired  it, which he didnt think  was excessive. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ss comments into account,  but Ive still decided  to not uphold this complaint 
and Ill now explain why.
I note Mr Ss comments that he thinks the warranty policy was mis-sold to him and that it 
didnt cover the repairs. But the warranty policy was provided by a separate  company so I 
cant hold BMF responsible for the actions of the warranty provider. Further to this, Im 
satisfied that Mr S applied  for this separately  through the supplying dealership and he also 
paid for it separately. So I also cant hold BMF responsible  for any representations that may 
have been made about what the policy would and wouldnt  cover.  Mr S will need to complain 
separately about this to the dealership or the warranty provider if he wants  to take this issue  
further.
Mr S has said that the CRA says that a fault is presumed to be present or developing at the 
point of sale if it occurs within six months  of the purchase, unless the supplier can show 
otherwise. I dont disagree with that. But the presence of a fault doesnt  give the consumer 
an automatic right to require a business to repair the fault or allow them  to reject the vehicle, 
as it has to be shown  that this fault makes the vehicle of unsatisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think the issues with the truck made  it 
of unsatisfactory.  As I said, the independent inspection report  concluded that the issue  with 
the truck  wasnt down  to a manufacturing defect  but was attributable  to normal  wear  and 
tear. 
I recognise that the truck  was only around four years old at the point of supply, but it had 
travelled around  99,600 miles by this time which I think is a very high mileage for its age. 
And I still think that Mr S had to expect a fair amount of wear and tear to have occurred to 
the truck  by the time he acquired it. 
Ref: DRN31634154I note Mr Ss comments that he doesnt  think the truck was serviced before it was supplied to 
him. But I still havent seen enough  to say that the independent engineers  conclusion  that 
the issues were down to wear and tear was unreasonable. 
Ultimately, the issue I have to consider is whether I think a reasonable person would expect 
there to be problems such as Mr S has experienced in a truck  given  the number of miles it 
had travelled. And Mr S hasnt given me anything to say that the conclusion I reached  in my 
provisional decision is unfair. 
So I still dont think Mr S is entitled to require BMF  to fix the truck or reject it for all the 
reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3163415