K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he couldnt make a payment from his Bank  of Scotland  Plc current  
account when  he wanted to. 
background
Mr W tried to set up a new payment  on the banks mobile app but he got an error message. 
So he called the bank to find out why he couldnt  do it. Mr Ws told us the payment was for 
an important, time-sensitive purchase. 
During his call with the bank, Mr W was told he wouldnt be able to set up a new payee  
because he was in the process of switching his account to another bank. This wasnt  correct.  
Mr W complained  to Bank of Scotland  that he couldnt make  his payment. They accepted  
that theyd given Mr W the wrong information  when he called them  for help and they couldnt 
see any reason Mr W hadnt been able to make the payment hed attempted.  But said that 
the payment hed been trying to make had in fact been made successfully  on the day he 
tried to make it. Bank of Scotland apologised and offered  Mr W £25 in recognition of the 
inconvenience the wrong information had caused. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the banks response  and referred his complaint to our service. He 
also said at this point  that he wasnt happy  Bank  of Scotland had refused to correspond 
about the complaint via email. 
Our case handler looked into Mr Ws complaint. He said initially that he thought  Bank of 
Scotland had given  poor service by not corresponding  by email about the complaint and 
recommended Bank of Scotland pay Mr W an additional £50 in recognition of this. But 
following further submissions, he concluded in summary, that he thought what Bank of 
Scotland had offered to put things right was fair. He said this because Mr Ws payment had 
been successful  on the day he wanted  to make it and so although  hed been  given  incorrect  
information  it didnt appear to have had a significant impact.  
Mr W didnt accept the case  handlers  findings. He doesnt think  £25 sufficiently recognises 
the inconvenience caused and remains unhappy  with the service he received  when  he 
complained to Bank of Scotland about  what  happened.  So the complaints been passed to 
me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the case handler  and Ill explain why. 
Both parties  agree that when Mr W called  to query  the problems he was having, the bank 
gave him the wrong information. So what remains for me to consider is what impact that had 
and whether Bank of Scotland has now done is enough to put things right.  
Mr W says it was highly embarrassing that his money wasnt  available to make  the payment 
that day. But Mr W has told us when he couldnt  transfer the money directly  to the new 
payee  he transferred the money  to an existing payee who forwarded the money on. Mr W 
said this meant the payment was late, but he hasnt  said how late it ended  up being. And 
Ref: DRN36346532from what I can see on his statements, it seems he transferred  the money into his account 
and onto the existing payee  on the same  day. If the existing  payee didnt forward the money 
on straightaway, I dont  think  I can fairly say thats Bank of Scotlands fault. 
The bank has said they cant  explain  why Mr W couldnt set up the new payee. Because we 
dont know what caused the problem in the first place,  we dont know if thats because  the 
bank had done something wrong. Ive thought about this though  and I dont think it makes  a 
difference to the overall outcome of Mr Ws case.  
Even if the original problem was caused by a mistake the bank made,  Id still consider the 
£25 theyve offered  is fair overall.  Mr W had to make a phone call to the bank  to find out 
what was wrong, was given incorrect information  during that call and then had to make 
alternative arrangements for the payment  to be made. But none of this stopped the payment 
leaving Mr Ws account on the day he wanted it to. So I think  Bank of Scotlands apology 
and the £25 theyve offered in recognition of this is sufficient to recognise  the inconvenience  
to Mr W. 
Mr W was also unhappy with Bank of Scotlands  response to his complaint; in particular that 
they asked him to call to discuss the matter. I understand why he might prefer to 
communicate by email but its up to Bank  of Scotland to decide  its own processes  and 
asking Mr W to call them was in line with their process. And I dont  think its unreasonable  
that they would want  to speak to Mr W to check their understanding.  
Mr W says hes made  complaints by email  in the past and received written  responses - 
without having  to speak to the bank on the phone.  But Bank of Scotland  havent  said they 
wont respond to complaints made  by email,  just that they wanted  to talk to Mr W on this 
occasion to check  the details of his complaint, before responding.  And  they wouldnt send 
their final response by email for security reasons which, again, I dont feel is unreasonable.
Ultimately Bank of Scotland did respond  to Mr Ws complaint. They sent a final response  
letter to him at his address on 15 September 2018.  So I dont agree Bank of Scotland 
refused to deal with Mr Ws complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3634653