K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc suggested she use her personal  savings to pay 
off her ex- husbands  debts.
background
Mrs Ts ex- husband had a number of gambling related debts. Mrs T says she agreed  under 
duress and pressure to speak to Clydesdale about options to repay the debt. But Clydesdale  
didnt tell her the debt was in her ex- husbands  sole name and that she wasnt  liable for it. 
She says Clydesdale suggested  to her that she use her savings bond to cover the debt and 
that it shouldnt  have done  so. She also says Clydesdale  didnt offer her any debt advice or 
offer different  options.
Mrs T would like compensation for whats happened  and her savings refunded.
Clydesdale doesnt  accept making  a mistake and says Mrs T called it on behalf of her then 
husband to discuss  options for his debt. It says it had a number of conversations with Mrs T 
about the debt options  and that she agreed  to use the bond to repay  the debt. And that Mrs 
T thanked its staff for the help they had given her. Clydesdale says it was unaware of 
problems in the relationship at the time and that Mrs T could have spoken to it in its branch if 
any pressure was put on her.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  
thought Clydesdale advisors during the relevant call had raised  the issue  of the use of the 
bond money but Mrs T had agreed to it and told it to do it and clear the balance. The 
adjudicator thought Clydesdale  gave a number of options to Mrs T including a debt 
management plan and a loan but she was concerned about those options. And that Mrs T 
was clear in wanting  to use the bond money and indicated that on a number of occasions.
Mrs T doesnt accept that view and says in summary  that she has paid a debt that she 
wasnt liable for and should have  been told there was another  options that her then husband 
should pay the debt. She says she was made to feel liable for this debt and that she 
attempted to stall Clydesdales  use of the bond  by suggesting it couldnt be used as it hadnt 
expired. Mrs T says she was under duress  on the calls and that Clydesdale saw an 
opportunity to claw back its money  in a cynical manner.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise that Mrs T will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  happened.
I appreciate Mrs T says she was placed  under duress by her ex-partner but I dont think 
Clydesdale could have  known about  that unless Mrs T told it about that. I have listened to all 
of the calls between  the parties and Im satisfied  that I dont think  Clydesdale  could have 
reasonably concluded that Mrs T was under pressure to speak to it or to agree to something  
she didnt want to do. And Im also satisfied that Mrs T thanked the Clydesdale staff after 
each call. If Mrs T was placed  under pressure as she says then I think she could have told 
Clydesdale about  that on a different occasion.
Having listened  to the calls between the parties  I think on balance  Mrs T was trying  to help 
her ex-husband and trying to find a solution to the debt. I appreciate Mrs T says she should 
Ref: DRN33821012have been told the debt was her ex-husband and that one option  was for him alone  to sort 
out. But I think its clear that is not what Mrs T wanted at the time as I think during the calls 
she and her then husband  are discussing  a number of different options  with Clydesdale and 
I think Clydesdale was acting fairly  in trying  to find a solution.
The key call concerns the discussion about the option of using  the bond. Im satisfied that 
Mrs T is clear in her instructions to Clydesdale telling it if the bank allows  it  ... do it and 
clear the balance.  And I think Clydesdale told her that the decision was Mrs Ts and that she 
could leave the money. But again Mrs T repeats her instructions. So I dont think  Mrs T tried 
to stall. But was clear in what she appeared to want to happen  and that Clydesdale didnt put 
any pressure on her to agree to the use of her bond. I also dont think  there was any 
evidence of Clydesdale seeing a cynical opportunity to claw back its money as Mrs T 
suggests. And I have  also explained that I think Mrs T thanked  its staff on a number of 
occasions for the help it gave her. I dont think it likely she would  have acted in such a way if 
she was being  forced  against her will to surrender her savings bond.
Overall Im satisfied Clydesdale was trying  to help Mrs T and provide her with options to 
clear her then husbands debt. I dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly or made a mistake 
here. And that it couldnt  have known  about  any problems within  the marriage and fairly 
concluded from the calls that Mrs T was trying to help her husband and the family finances. 
I accept that Mrs T will remain  unhappy with my decision  but Im satisfied that brings  an end 
to what we, in trying  to sort out this complaint informally, can do. I can see that Mrs T is in 
any event considering alternative action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3382101