K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside a credit card. Miss A says HSBC UK Bank plc, First Direct at the time, mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss A says that nothing was mentioned to her about the PPI and she had no idea she 
had taken this out. But based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think HSBC made it clear  that 
Miss A didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this having seen a copy  of Miss As New  
Customer Application  Form which included a section to apply  for a credit card and PPI. 
In this section Miss A completed the boxes to apply  for the card and ticked  the box to 
indicate she also wanted to take out PPI. But there was the option to decline the cover if 
Miss A didnt want it. And based  on the evidence Ive seen I think  this was a postal 
application  which means Miss A completed  this in her own space and time and without 
any involvement from HSBC other  than the provision of the form itself.   
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check if the policy  was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss A got the information  she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her. 
Miss A says she wasnt  given any information about the policy or how much  it would 
cost. From  what  Ive seen I agree that the information HSBC gave Miss A about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover.  And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable and I think it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. I say this having  considered what  Miss A has said about her sick 
pay entitlement at the time and the support she says she wouldve received from her 
partner and parents.  Even though I dont doubt  Miss As partner and parents wouldve 
wanted to support her if she was unable to work   help from others cant  always be 
guaranteed as their circumstances can also change. The PPI policy  wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months, and in addition  to her sick pay entitlement. So these funds couldve 
been used for other expenses. And I think Miss A wouldve found the PPI particularly 
useful if she was off work for longer than her sick pay wouldve lasted her. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN31770782Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3177078