K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In February 2016,  Miss B took out car insurance with Advantage. The application was 
completed online. In November  2016, Miss Bs car was stolen  and she claimed on her 
policy. During validation  checks Advantage discovered that Miss Bs speeding points from 
2011 hadnt been disclosed during her application. Miss B said it was a mistake  and the 
points were from a long time ago.
Advantage said that had they known  about Miss Bs points, her premium  would  have been  
16% higher. They said that meant  they were entitled  to settle Miss Bs claim proportionately by 
paying 84% of the claim. 
Miss B felt that settling the claim proportionately was unfair, so she complained.  But Advantage 
didnt uphold  her complaint.  Miss B brought her complaint to our service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Advantage hadnt done anything  wrong. As 
Miss B didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss B, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Miss Bs points very carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus  on what  I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Advantage  have dealt with Miss B in a 
fair and reasonable way.
Advantage have  said that Miss B not disclosing her speeding points amounted  to, what is 
known in the insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific 
legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
that sets out what  insurers may do in such a situation. It says that if an insurer  would have 
charged a higher premium had they known about a fact that hadnt  been disclosed, they may 
reduce proportionately  the amount to be paid on a claim.
During the online application  Miss B was asked if she had committed any driving offences 
or had any Fixed Penalty Notices in the last 5 years  She answered  that she didnt. While I 
accept that was a mistake  and there  was no dishonest  intention,  it was nevertheless  a 
careless misrepresentation.
Advantage have  said that had she disclosed her penalty points her premium  would have  
cost 16% more than what she was charged. As a result, in accordance  with CIDRA, 
Advantage were  entitled to reduce the claim by that amount. While I sympathise with 
Miss Bs position, I think Advantage  have acted reasonably. 
Ref: DRN31094132It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
Miss Bs premium  would have been  higher had she disclosed her speeding points. But just 
because Advantage would  have  charged  Miss B more because of her speeding points 
doesnt mean that Advantage  have treated her unfairly. Advantage have  provided  me with 
information to show how Miss Bs premium has been calculated once the speeding points 
were added. Im aware that Miss B asked to see that information. But that information  is 
commercially sensitive  so I can't share  it with her. But having looked at it carefully,  Im 
satisfied that Advantage treated Miss B in the same way as they would  other policyholders in 
similar circumstances. So I think they calculated her premium  reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Miss B thinks it was unfair  for Advantage  to reduce her claim because  
her policy would have  cost more had they known about her points. But each insurer will have 
their own methods of calculating risk. Im aware that most insurers  think an individual who 
has received penalty points  for speeding  presents  a higher risk than people who havent. As 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think  theres anything  wrong  with 
insurers considering  whether  or not certain individuals  fall into higher risk groupings. So I 
cant say Miss B has been singled out or treated differently to others in similar 
circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3109413