K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
1st Stop Car Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with 1st Stop Car 
Finance that he electronically signed in September 2018. The car was about nine years  old 
and it had been driven for about 88,000  miles. Mr S returned the car to the dealer three 
times within the first month because of power  issues. And he then complained to 1st Stop 
Car Finance. It arranged  for the car to be inspected by an independent expert  and then said 
that it would  pay for the car to be repaired at Mr Ss choice of garage  and the dealer paid 
£300 to Mr S as a contribution towards  the cost of the repair  and 1st Stop Car Finance 
agreed to pay the balance  of £308. But before the car was repaired Mr S said that he wanted  
to reject the car and he complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  It was her 
understanding that 1st Stop Car Finance wasnt disputing that the car was faulty  (or 
developing the fault) at the point  of sale and that the dealer  had had an opportunity  to repair.
But she said that 1st Stop Car Finance feels that Mr S has waived his rights  to reject the car 
as he accepted for the car to be repaired at a third party garage.  But she didnt feel that that 
was a reasonable approach as the repair didnt go ahead. And she recommended that 1st 
Stop Car Finance should allow the rejection of the car and terminate the agreement   and 
that it should arrange for the collection of the car and should  refund any payments made by 
Mr S from November  2018 in recognition of the limited use that hed had and the trouble and 
upset caused.  And she said that it should instruct Mr S in the correct  process  to return the 
£300 to the dealer.
1st Stop Car Finance  has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that it doesnt  agree  with the outcome for the reasons previously  given. And Mr S says 
that hes very disappointed with 1st Stop Car Finances  response  and that hed like a full 
refund of the money that hes paid for the car as it only worked for a month and the stress 
and inconvenience  that this has caused him is unacceptable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1st Stop Car Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car 
was of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Mr S. That will depend on a number of 
factors, including the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
The car that was supplied  to Mr S was about nine years old and had been driven for about 
88,000 miles. But there doesnt  seem  to be any dispute that there was an issue with the car 
so Mr S returned it to the dealer  he says three times in the first month.  So the dealer had 
the opportunity  to repair the car but the fault continued. Mr S then complained  to 1st Stop 
Car Finance and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert.  The car 
Ref: DRN35954862was inspected in January  2019 and its mileage was recorded as being  90,192  miles at that 
time. The inspection  report  says:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle  
does display reduced performance and what is consistent with a boost leakage to the 
under bonnet area which may be related to previous diesel particulate filter issues  
however, until further investigation has been carried out we cannot fully confirm. 
1st Stop Car Finance  then offered  to pay for the car to be repaired at a garage of Mr Ss 
choice. It says that he provided  a quote  for £608 for the repair  and it agreed to pay him £308  
and the dealer has paid him £300.  But Mr S says that he decided that he wanted to reject 
the car. He says that the garage  that quoted for the repair can no longer repair the car and 
other quotes that hes received are much more expensive and hes been advised  that he 
should reject  the car.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that theres a fault with the car. And I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the fault was present  (or developing) when the car was supplied to 
Mr S. So I consider that it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  at that time. The dealer  has had 
opportunities to repair the car but the fault continues. So I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Mr S to reject the car. Im not persuaded that Mr S 
isnt able to reject the car because hed agreed  to have the car repaired and has received 
£300 towards the repair cost from the dealer.
 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 1st Stop Car Finance to end the agreement  and 
to collect the car from Mr S. Mr S was able to use the car after it was supplied  to him  and 
when the car was inspected in January 2019  its mileage was 90,192  miles so hed been  able 
to use the car to drive about 2,000 miles. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require 1st Stop Car Finance to refund to him all of the payments that 
hes made under the agreement. I agree with the investigators recommendation that 1st 
Stop Car Finance should refund to Mr S the monthly payments that hes made since  the 
beginning of November  2018  and that it should  pay interest on those amounts. 
Mr S has received £300 from the dealer  but hes happy to return  that to the dealer. So I 
consider that 1st Stop Car Finance should  arrange  for Mr S to receive details about how he 
should return that payment to the dealer.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order  1st Stop Car 
Finance Limited  to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr S  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr S the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since  the 
beginning of November 2018.
3.Pay interest on those  amounts  at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of each  
payment to the date of settlement.
4.Arrange for Mr S to receive details about  how he should  return  the £300 payment to 
the dealer.
Ref: DRN35954863HM Revenue & Customs  requires 1st Stop Car Finance to deduct  tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 3 above. 1st Stop Car Finance  Limited must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3595486