K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a Royalties 
packaged account in 1997.
background
Mr and Mrs S account history is as follows:
February 1992 - opened as a fee-free  account  in Mrs S name  only,
October 1997  converted to a Royalties packaged account,
September 1998  Mr S added to the account,
February 2012  migrated to a Select Silver  account. 
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint and didnt agree that the Royalties account had 
been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think RBS mis-sold the Royalties account to Mr and Mrs S. Ill 
explain why. As Mrs S was the sole account  holder when the Royalties account was sold,  
Ive mostly referred to her in this decision. 
Mrs S has explained that as the account was converted such  a long time ago, she no longer 
remembers the details  of what happened. Listening to the telephone call Mrs S had with 
RBS when it discussed the complaint with her, Mrs S again says she doesnt  remember 
what happened when  the account  was converted or know anything  about the loans she took 
out around that time.  But she assumes  she was brought into the branch to discuss her 
account when  it was converted. 
Its understandable  that Mrs S doesnt  recall what happened over 20 years ago. Because  of 
this, its difficult for me to place much weight  on her recollections of what  she thinks 
happened at the time.  So Ive looked at all of the information available  to me to determine 
what I think is most likely  to have happened in the circumstances. This includes everything 
both Mr and Mrs S and RBS have sent to me.
Mrs S thinks  she was told she needed to take out the Royalties  account  in order  to take out 
a financial product like a loan or a mortgage.  I can see that around  six months  before Mrs S 
converted to the Royalties account,  she successfully took out a loan for £10,000 and she 
took out an overdraft  around ten months  before. So I think  she was aware  that could take out 
financial products  with her fee-free  account. And theres nothing  to suggest she wouldve 
believed this was different  under  a year later when  she converted  the current account.  I also 
cant see that she had any declined applications at the time of the upgrade, so I cant see 
why she would think she needed to change her account to take out a financial product.
Seeing as Mrs S already had an overdraft on her fee-free account  and had successfully  
taken out a loan just six months before, I think its more likely she was aware she could 
continue to take out financial  products with a fee-free account. So I think its more  likely that 
Ref: DRN36949542RBS gave Mrs S a fair choice to take out the Royalties account and that she chose to take 
out the account knowing she didnt  have to. 
RBS has let us know  that it didnt give Mrs S a personal recommendation for the Royalties  
account based on her individual circumstances  at the time. Mrs S feels that it did give her 
financial advice over the years and that it must have recommended  the account  to her. As 
Mrs S points out, its not possible to know what was said at the time of the sale. RBS has let 
us know its normal process at the time wasnt to provide  advice when selling the Royalties 
account in branch. And based  on what Ive seen, I think  its more  likely it followed its normal  
process. So I think its more likely  no personal recommendation was made. Because of this it 
didnt have to check if the account  was suitable  for Mrs S. But it did have to give her enough 
information so she could make sure the account  was right for her. 
At the time of the sale, the account  cost £4 per month and included  payment card protection, 
accidental death  cover, 90 day purchase  protection, extended warranty  cover  , commission 
free currency as well as £100 interest free over draft with a preferential  rate over that amount 
and discounts  on loans. As RBS was trying to sell Mrs S an account with an increased 
monthly fee, I think its more likely the RBS representative told her about the benefits to 
make the account  more  attractive to her. 
Just four days after the account was converted to a Royalties account,  Mrs S increased  the 
overdraft to £400. At the time, one of the benefits on the account was an automatic £100  
interest free overdraft  with a preferential overdraft  rate above that point. While I cant  know  
exactly what was discussed  at the time of the sale, on balance, I think its more likely  there  
was a discussion about the overdraft  benefits on the account and that Mrs S thought  this 
could have been of use to her. Mrs S also applied for a loan a few months  after taking out 
the account, so its also possible the loan related benefits also appealed  to her. While  its 
possible she wasnt told everything about the account, I dont think better information 
wouldve made her change her mind  about  converting the account.  
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think its more likely Mrs S chose to 
take out the Royalties account  after having a reasonable  idea of what  it entailed.  So overall, I 
dont think RBS mis-sold the account to Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S have  also said they shouldve been  told about the existence of fee-free 
accounts when  the Royalties account was converted to a Select  Silver account.  Because  the 
Royalties account  was no longer available, RBS migrated Mr and Mrs S account to the most  
comparable packaged  account, which was the Select Silver account. As I explained earlier,  I 
think its more likely  that RBS gave Mr and Mrs S a fair choice in taking the Royalties 
account and that they were aware  of the existence of fee-free accounts.  So I dont think RBS 
needed to remind  them that fee-free accounts were available when it migrated the Royalties 
account to a Select Silver. And I dont think RBS needed to do more  in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN36949543my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694954