K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought two PPI policies some  time after taking out a mortgage. He bought  the first 
policy in connection  with a further advance on an existing  mortgage  in December 1998 
(policy 1). He took out the second  policy in connection with a further advance in December 
1999 (policy 2). Mr H applied for the PPI policies in branch.
The policies provided cover for Mr H for accident,  sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
their exclusions  and limitations. Policy 1 offered  to repay £39.41  a month towards  Mr Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £2.00 a month.  
Policy 2 offered  to repay  £79.69 a month towards Mr Hs mortgage balance  in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost £5.45 a month  in total.
At the time of the sales, Mr H was self-employed as a builder. He has told he was not 
entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay and didnt have any other  means of repaying  his 
mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr H has said he didnt have  any health problems at 
the time of the sale.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in January 2007.
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Mr H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr H and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN35854482The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sales took place  in 1998 and 1999, before the General Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in January 2007. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN35854483The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN35854484Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the further advance application forms. There is nothing on these  that 
would suggest  PPI was compulsory. I also note that Mr H had not taken out PPI when he 
first took his mortgage  out. Mr H completed separate PPI application  forms in order  to apply 
for PPI in 1998  and again in 1999. And I havent seen evidence which would lead me to 
conclude Mr H was pressured  into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policies were  
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during the sales. Mr H is silent on this point in his 
questionnaire. Looking at what happened  when Lloyds  sold Mr H the PPI, Im persuaded 
that it provided advice.  This is because the PPI was sold in connection with a mortgage  
during a meeting and Lloyds accepts  in these circumstances  it would have provided advice  
this also places Mr H in a more favourable position.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr H with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policies were appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policies were a suitable  
recommendation for Mr H. The adviser had information about some  of Mr Hs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  PPI proposal forms were 
completed to try and establish whether Mr H had a need for the policies   by asking 
questions about  his wider circumstances such as any health issues and existing means  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because there are no 
answers provided to the questions asked in the form and in any event the questions werent 
sufficient to be able to elicit the information which the representative would have needed to a 
make a suitable recommendation. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr H given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mr H, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately suitable 
for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr H had a need for the policies  Mr H would not have  received  any pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness or unemployment  and he didnt have any savings he 
Ref: DRN35854485could fall back on. The policies would have helped  Mr H manage the consequences if 
Mr H was unable to work.
-Although Mr H says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr H. There  
was nothing about Mr Hs employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr H was self-employed  when the PPI was taken 
out, it wouldnt have  been any harder for him to make a claim if he became 
unemployed than someone who was permanently  employed.  And he hasnt told us 
about any pre-existing medical  conditions that could  affect his ability  to claim. There 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policies   included a requirement that Mr H be disabled or unemployed for 
60 days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr Hs 
circumstances, the fact the policies  protected the mortgage repayments relating to 
his home  and the potential consequences  should Mr H be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr H sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policies  to enable him to understand what  Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policies .
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  his payments if Mr H 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr H would have  taken out 
the policies  without any sense of what the policies were for and of how much the premium 
might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sales doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr H agreed  to take out the policies . 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr H Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr H the information he needed 
about the policies to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN35854486PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr H? To what extent did Mr H suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policies to Mr H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr H would have 
still taken out the policies,  had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended was suitable for Mr H, I have found that the policies  were  ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr H would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mr H says he wouldnt have taken PPI out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
Ref: DRN35854487product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr H knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policies, it doesnt appear  Lloyds  told him the exact  premium  at the point Mr H applied  
for the policies. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr H would have been told the cost before 
the policies started  and he paid for the policies for some times so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr H would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr H would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Hs expectations about 
what the policies   would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policies  actually did  if anything, 
it is more likely than not that the policies actually paid more  in the event of a claim than he 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr H knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies or for which  he had 
seen/arranged to have seen a doctor about or received treatment from a doctor for in 
the 12 months before the start date; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be totally 
unable to do his own job or any similar  job his ability, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; or if he was unemployed  at the time of the disability, 
that he be unable  to do any work;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr H pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policies werent as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Ref: DRN35854488Mr H wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. Although Mr H was self-
employed when  the PPI was taken out, it wouldnt have been any harder for him to make a 
claim if he became unemployed than someone  who was permanently employed.  So, I still 
think he had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr H 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job (if unemployed at the time of the disability)  
which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be qualified for, it might have played into his 
thinking about what he would do. And I accept it may have given him pause for thought  
although given  Mr Hs circumstances and the limited  other means he had to make  his 
repayments if he wasnt working, on balance, I still think he would have been interested in 
taking out the cover.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr H that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but he 
didnt have any other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr H would still have thought  policies that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr H be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policies. The policies allowed for multiple claims to be made, they could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable for him, were 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr H was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr H 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN35854489Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies . I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies . 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policies , I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr H thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 and 1999 when  providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr H and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2021.
Ref: DRN358544810Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3585448