K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2004. Mrs D says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs D took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs D says that the PPI was added without her consent or knowledge, and that she feels  
very strongly  that she wouldnt knowingly agree  to have  PPI on her account. But I think that 
FICL made it clear  that she didnt have  to take out the PPI, and that she chose to do so, 
although I can understand why she doesnt  remember this as it was so long ago. I say this 
because FICL has provided  a copy of Mrs Ds store  card application  and I can see that the 
policy is presented  as optional, and Mrs D has signed to select  it  this is separate  to her 
signature for the card itself.    
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35750452
Ref: DRN3575045