K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a personal  loan in 2009. 
Mr W applied  for the PPI online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint because I dont think  Santander gave  Mr W enough 
information about the cost of the PPI. And I think  that if Mr W had been given better 
information its unlikely  he wouldve  taken  out the policy. I say this because:
Mr W wouldnt have  automatically been  given the cost of the PPI policy during the 
online process. And it looks as if he needed  to use an online loan calculator to get a 
price for the PPI. It wasnt an essential step in the online  application, but even if Mr W 
had used it, the calculator may not have shown him the actual cost of the policy  as 
the interest rate for the loan had not been  set; 
Santander says that the cost of PPI was set out in a welcome pack  sent with the 
credit agreement  when  the loan was approved. But Mr W had already been asked if 
he wanted to take out PPI, so he had already  committed  to buying it. Ive not seen 
anything in the documents Santander has provided  which  clearly asked Mr W to re-
confirm his choice  or explained what he needed  to do if he changed his mind. So I 
dont think he was given the opportunity to review the PPI and decide if he still 
wanted it;
I think that if Mr W had been given  information about the cost of the policy, it 
wouldve made a difference  to his decision to take out the PPI. I think  he is unlikely to 
have thought  the policy wouldve been good  value  for money taking into account the 
monthly cost of the policy in relation to the cost of the monthly  repayments.  So I 
thinks it unlikely  he wouldve  taken the policy out had he been  given  better 
information about the cost.  
In conclusion I think Santander have not given enough information  about the PPI policy to  
Mr W. And I think Mr W has lost out as a result of what Santander did wrong  on this 
occasion. 
fair compensation
Ref: DRN34207272I think it likely that Mr W would not have  purchased  the PPI but would  still have gone  ahead 
with his personal loan.
Santander will need to put Mr W back in the position he would  have been  in if he had taken 
out his loan without PPI. So Santander  should:
Work  out and pay Mr W the total of the premiums he paid on his policy;
Pay interest at 8% simple on each of the premiums from the date of payment to the date 
the compensation is paid;
If Santander has already repaid any amount of the premiums to Mr W already relating to 
commission, it can deduct this from the total. 
Set out in writing for Mr W how the above was calculated.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Santander  to take off tax from this interest  payment. 
Santander must give Mr W a certificate showing how much  tax theyve taken off if he asks 
for one.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr W compensation in accordance with the calculation  of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3420727