K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained  to Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) about its response to 
a claim under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Bs complaint on 4 February 2020 setting out why I 
considered the complaint should  be upheld.  A  copy of that decision is attached and forms 
part of this decision.
Mrs Bs representatives confirmed that she accepted the decision, but queried part of the 
redress to put things right.  It asked if a repair to Mrs Bs laminate wasnt possible, if a repair 
on a closest match basis meant the replacement of the flooring.
Tesco didnt  respond initially, but when contacted said it didnt accept the provisional  
decision and asked  for an extension of time to respond.   The extension was granted, but 
Tesco didnt  provide any comments by the agreed date  and hasnt since.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
As Mrs B accepted my provisional  decision and Tesco hasnt provided any further comments  
for consideration, I remain of the conclusions  reached in my provisional decision.
So Ive decided the complaint should  be upheld as the benefits  of the system were 
misrepresented to Mrs B.
To clarify the point queried by Mrs Bs representative, Im asking Tesco  to repair  the 
laminate flooring that was damaged during the installation of the solar  heating system.  But if 
it isnt possible for the floor to be repaired, then it should be replaced  on a closest  match 
basis.
putting things right
In order  to put things right Ive considered  what fair compensation is in the circumstances  of 
the complaint.
The heating management system  hasnt provided the energy savings represented  to Mrs B, 
and had she known  that at the time, I dont believe she would have gone ahead  with the 
purchase. So I consider it is fair and reasonable to put Mrs B in as close  a position as 
possible as she would  now be in were it not for the misrepresentation.
To resolve matters, Tesco should  do the following:
A)  Pay for the removal of the heating management system from Mrs Bs house 
and reinstatement of the condition before its installation.
B)  Refund all payments  to Mrs B made  towards the cost of the heating management 
system.
Ref: DRN36931802C)  Pay interest of 8% simple per annum on the amounts at B above, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
D)  Pay for the repair of the laminate flooring that was damaged during the 
installation of the heating  management system. If a repair  isnt possible, the flooring 
should be replaced on a closest match basis.
E)  Pay Mrs B £200 for the trouble and upset she has suffered as a result of the 
s.75 claim not being dealt with by Tesco.
Tesco has said that it wouldnt look to adjust any records  on Mrs B credit  file. Ive 
considered this as Mrs B used the available balance on her existing Tesco  credit  card to 
make the deposit  payment, rather than take out a dedicated loan. So any credit agency  
report would  reflect the overall position  of the credit card account  rather  than a standalone 
record. So Im satisfied  Tesco doesnt  need to arrange for an adjustment with any external  
credit agencies  unless the balance from the transaction  has resulted in any adverse 
credit file entries.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Tesco  Personal Finance  PLC.   
To put things right Tesco should follow the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36931803COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs B has complained  to Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) about its response to a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).
background
In 2015 Mrs B bought a heating management system from a supplier called Enviro Solar which 
she says is not fit for purposes. The system cost £7,900  and she paid a deposit of £1,800 using 
her Tesco credit card.
Mrs B says she was cold called and offered a central heating system. A representative of Enviro 
Solar then attended  her home and explained  it would  save her money on her heating  bills whilst also 
prolonging the life of her existing boiler and radiators.
Initially Mrs B was unhappy as the system wouldnt work correctly.  A number of engineers were 
sent out to assess it, and it was determined the problem  was due to the existing  boiler not working  
as it should. It was identified the boiler hadnt been serviced for some time.
In October  2015 the boiler was serviced and subsequently a representative of Enviro Solar 
attended Mrs Bs home.  They said the heating management system  was now working  as it should  
and having reviewed  bills Mrs B was saving energy.
Still unhappy  with the system, Mrs B made a s.75 claim to Tesco  saying that it had been 
misrepresented to her. More specifically,  she complained:
the heating management system was mis-sold and the good werent as described;
the heating management system was not satisfactory as there was no reduction in energy  
usage.
As well as stating there was no savings from the system, Mrs B said that the installation
work had caused damage to her property. There was water damage to laminate flooring and Enviro 
Solar offered  her £150 compensation for this.
Tesco declined the s.75 claim. It said there was no breach of contract or misrepresentation
and energy savings were  being made. Mrs B was unhappy with the response and so 
referred her complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators looked into matters and recommended the complaint be upheld. He was 
persuaded that Mrs B wasnt  making energy  savings,  but was in fact using  more energy. He 
compared Mrs Bs usage for the same three-month period from before the system  was installed, 
against the usage for subsequent  years. To put things right the investigator recommended  that Tesco  
pay to remove the heating management system and refund the payments Mrs B has paid for the 
system. He also suggested a payment of £500 for the distress and inconvenience experienced by 
Mrs B.
Mrs B accepted the investigators findings   but Tesco  did not. It responded  saying  that comparing 
the energy consumption wasnt accurate as there are a number  of variables which  can affect usage,  
and an independent inspection report should  be obtained by Mrs B. It also said £500 isnt merited as 
it isnt responsible for service failures  of Enviro Solar, only the handling of Mrs Bs section 75 claim.
As no agreement  could be reached the complaint has now be passed to me to consider  afresh.
Ref: DRN36931804my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached largely the same  conclusions as the 
investigator  and Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account:  relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry  practice at the relevant  time.
In this case the relevant  law includes  section 56 (s.56) and s.75 of the CCA, which  provides 
protection for consumers  for goods or services bought using credit. Section.75  states:
If the debtor under  a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier  in the respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor.
As Mrs B paid the deposit for the heating management system using  her credit card, Tesco agrees 
that s.75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs B could claim against Tesco  the creditor  
 for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by Enviro Solar  in the same way he could  have 
claimed against  it as the supplier. So, Ive taken  s.75 into account when deciding what  is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant.  This is because  it says that any negotiations between Mrs B and Enviro 
Solar, as the supplier, are deemed  to have been conducted  by Enviro Solar as an agent  of Tesco.
The heating management  system was advertised by Enviro  Solar stating  that it saves up to 30% on 
your fuel consumption , and this is confirmed in the terms and conditions of the sale. It should be 
noted that the statement  says up to 30%  savings, rather than any guarantee of that level of savings. 
As energy saving was the main inducement for purchasing the system, I would expect Mrs B to have 
benefited from a noticeable reduction in usage  following  its installation.
Mrs B didnt have any prior experience of heating management systems and was cold called by 
Enviro Solar. So Im satisfied she decided  to go ahead with the purchase of the system based upon 
the representations made that the system would  save her energy (and so money).
So the key issue for me to determine is whether the system has reasonably delivered her energy 
savings and that were represented to her. I understand that Tesco has raised concerns  about  
just comparing consumption levels  before  and after the installation of the system  as being  an 
accurate reflection of savings.
I understand  that Mrs B could have started using the heating  system more, or there could have been 
particularly significant  changes in weather conditions. But overall I dont consider it necessary for 
Mrs B to have obtained  an independent inspection  report. She had called out the supplier previously 
and had her boiler  serviced, but ultimately  she hasnt experienced the savings she was reasonably 
led to expect by Enviro Solar.
The investigator who initially looked into the complaint provided  both Mrs B and Tesco with a table of 
information comparing energy using before  and after the installation of the new system   so I wont 
provide that again here, but have taken account of it. Im satisfied that overall  it shows  Mrs Bs 
energy usage has increased and not fallen as expected.
For the reasons  I have explained above, I find that Mrs B has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by Enviro  Solar. The system hasnt resulted in energy savings  and so Mrs 
B has ended  up paying  a significant amount for the system in addition  to her energy  usage.  And as 
Ref: DRN36931805Tesco has equal liability for the misrepresentation  made by Enviro Solar, I find that its responsible 
for Mr Bs loss.
putting things right
In order to put things  right Ive considered what fair compensation is in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
The heating management  system hasnt provided  the energy savings represented to Mrs B, and had 
she known that at the time, I dont believe she would have gone ahead with the purchase.  So I 
consider it is fair and reasonable to put Mrs B in as close a position as possible as she would  now be 
in were it not for the misrepresentation.
To resolve matters, Tesco should do the following:
A)  Pay for the removal of the heating management system  from Mrs Bs house and 
reinstatement the condition before its installation.
B)  Refund  all payments  to Mrs B made  towards the cost of the heating management  system.
C)  Pay interest of 8% simple per annum on the amounts  at B above,  from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
D)  Pay for the repair of the laminate flooring that was damaged during the installation of the 
heating management system. If a repair  isnt possible, the damaged  flooring should  be 
repaired on a closest match  basis.
E)  Pay Mrs B £200  for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered as a result of the 
s.75 claim not being dealt with by Tesco.
Im aware that the investigator  who initially looked at the complaint  recommended a payment of £500 
for distress and inconvenience, and whilst  I recognise this matter has caused considerable upset to 
Mrs B, I cant hold Tesco responsible for the service failings of the supplier.
Tesco has said that it wouldnt look to adjust any records on Mrs B credit file. Ive considered this as 
Mrs B used the available balance on her existing Tesco  credit card to make the deposit payment, 
rather than take out a dedicated loan. So any credit agency report would reflect  the overall position  
of the credit card account rather than a standalone record. So Im satisfied Tesco  doesnt need to 
arrange for an adjustment with any external credit agencies  unless the balance from the 
transaction has resulted  in any adverse credit file entries.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Tesco  Personal  Finance  
PLC and I direct it to put things right by following the steps  set out above.
Ref: DRN3693180