K820x#14complaint
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Mrs T have complained about  The New India Assurance Co Ltds  
(New India) actions following a motor insurance  claim.
Mr B1 has represented all three  complainants in bringing this complaint. So, for ease, where  
I refer to his comments below, those are in respect of all three complainants.
The policy is branded  in the name of New Indias agent, so all reference to New India 
includes the actions  of its agent.
background
Mr B1 and Mrs T are married. Mr B2 is their son. New India  issued a policy  to Mrs T, which 
was applied for online. Mr B1 was driving  the car insured on the policy  when it was damaged  
in an accident.  The car was deemed  a total loss and New India paid the claim  for its loss. It 
also accepted  a claim from the other  driver involved in the accident.
New India later said that Mr B1 wasn't  covered by the policy.  So it said that he and Mrs T 
should refund its outlay  (what it paid out) for the claim. Mr B1 didn't think  that was fair and 
brought the complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didn't think New India  had done  anything wrong. 
Mr B1 didn't agree so the complaint's  been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint and in response  to the adjudicators view Mr B1 has made a 
number of detailed  points. But I don't intend  to address each of those individually and will 
instead focus on what I see as being the key issues.
I've seen that the policy documents clearly  name  Mrs T and Mr B2 as being covered by the 
policy. Mr B1 isnt named  on the policy. Mr B1 says that this was because of a mistake by 
New India. 
Mr B1 says he applied for the policy online. I've seen that initially the request for cover was 
through a price comparison website. And I've seen  evidence  of the information given to the 
comparison website during the application  process.  It's clear  that as well as Mrs Ts details, 
the information provided for the only named  driver on the policy was for Mr B2. That 
information included  Mr B2s date of birth and occupation. The comparison website asked for 
the relationship  between  Mrs T and Mr B2 and the answer given  was spouse. In other words  
while applying for the policy the applicant said that Mrs T and Mr B2 were  married. 
After accepting the application  New India sent policy documents  to Mrs T confirming that she 
and Mr B2 were covered by the policy. The policy documents  sent at that time said Mr B2 
was a named  driver and gave  his date of birth and profession. That information - Mr B2s 
date of birth and profession  - are not similar to Mr B1s details. So, from the outset the policy 
documents didn't refer to Mr B1. 
Ref: DRN39354412New India later learned that Mrs T had previously had a claim she hadn't  told it about when 
applying for the policy. And it asked her to provide evidence  to validate some  of the other  
details given when  applying for it. It asked her to provide driving licence details  for all the 
drivers on it. Mrs T provided  driving licence details for herself and Mr B2. She said the 
information was for all named drivers. She didnt  provide Mr B1s licence details.  
New India updated her policy  and again sent out policy documents that named Mrs T and 
Mr B2 as covered  by the policy.  Again  the documents didn't include Mr B1s details.  Neither 
Mrs T nor Mr B1 sought clarification of this information.
So the evidence  from the comparison website application and from New Indias policy 
documents show that the only driver details provided were  for Mrs T and Mr B2. At no point 
were Mr B1s details  provided during the application process. And Mrs T didn't send them  
when New India sought the licence details  of all the drivers named to drive on the policy. 
Mr B1 also said that the so called name change  happened within 14 days  of the policy  
being taken out, so could  be amended  retrospectively. But I think hes wrong. I haven't  seen 
any evidence that there  was a name change on the policy at any point. Apart from Mr B1s 
comments, all the evidence I've seen shows that the two people named as drivers on the 
policy remained consistent throughout. And those two people were Mrs T and Mr B2. 
Theres no persuasive evidence that one of the drivers was changed on the policy  at any 
point.
And in any event the 14 day cooling  off period, which I think  is what  Mr B1 is referring to, is 
there to allow a consumer  who changes their mind about cover to cancel their policy  if it 
doesn't suit their needs. I don't think its intention is to allow  retrospective  changes to the 
cover.
So Im satisfied that at no point in the application  process was cover sought for Mr B1. It 
follows that Im equally satisfied that New India didn't make a mistake and add Mr B2, 
instead of Mr B1 to the policy. Instead  I think New India did exactly what  it was asked to do 
by Mr B1 when he applied for the policy. That is it provided cover for Mrs T and Mr B2 in the 
belief that they were  spouses. 
Mr B1s said that the policy says that it will cover  the named driver  and their spouse. So as 
he says he and Mrs T are married, he thinks it should cover him. But it's clear that when 
applying for the policy the applicants said that Mrs T and Mr B2 were spouses. New Indias 
also explained that the policy is intended for spouses and attracts a significant  premium 
discount for such couples. And it charged Mrs T an additional premium of over £200 - which 
as the policy  was cancelled it didn't insist she pay - when  it learnt  Mr B2 wasn't her spouse. 
Also the policy  documents are clear  that the policy doesn't cover any driver other than the 
people named on it. And the people named on it are Mrs T and Mr B2. So the policy  doesn't  
extend to cover Mr B1 simply because he says hes Mrs Ts spouse.  That means that Mr B1 
simply wasn't covered  by the policy.
Following the accident  Mr B1 reported  it to New India. But when asked who was driving he 
gave Mr B2s first name,  which Ill refer to as O, and not the name he uses,  which Ill refer to 
as P. As a result New India thought it was Mr B2 who was driving  at the time of the incident. 
It paid the claim for the total loss of the car on that basis.  Mr B1s said that he shares the 
same first name as Mr B2, O, but chooses  to use the P name instead. So he thinks  hes 
accurately reported  who was driving at the time of the accident.
Ref: DRN39354413But hes confirmed that his driving licence  shows P as his first name. And that name doesn't  
appear on the policy. And at no other  point  that I've seen has Mr B1 used O as his first 
name. Nor has he provided any other  evidence, beyond his comments,  that his given first 
name is O. 
So Mr B1 told New India  that the driver  involved in the incident had Mr B2s name. And 
Mr B2 was the only other driver - other than Mrs T - named  on the policy. In those 
circumstances I think it was reasonable for New India to believe that the driver at the time of 
the incident was Mr B2. So I can understand why it paid the claim on that basis.
New India later learned from the police  that it was Mr B1 that was driving  at the time of the 
accident. That led it to tell Mr B1 that he wasn't covered for it. 
Mr B1 is unhappy that New India  has sought  to recover its outlay as a result of the accident  
from Mr B1 and Mrs T. But I think its actions are reasonable in the circumstances. As Ive 
said above the policy didn't provide cover for Mr B1. New India insured the car at the time of 
the accident; so, in the absence of another insurer providing cover  for it, under the provisions 
of the Road Traffic Act 1998 New India would ultimately remain responsible  for the claim 
against the car covered  by the policy. And where  thats the case the policy says that 
New India will seek to recover any outlay from the policyholder, Mrs T, and the driver of the 
car involved in the incident at the time,  Mr B1. And as New Indias paid claims that weren't 
otherwise covered by the policy, I think its reasonable  that it seeks  to recover  its outlay from 
Mr B1 and Mrs T.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1, Mr B2 and 
Mrs T to accept  or reject  my decision before 23 February 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3935441