K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 2000 when he took out a 
loan.
Its been agreed in this case  that AXA France IARD (AXA)  as the insurer should accept
responsibility for the complaint.
background
In 2000 Mr M applied for a loan account by completing an application form in a store.  PPI
was added to his account. He says he couldnt  recall  any conversation about PPI; and he 
thought that whatever he signed was all part of the agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  And having done  so, Ive decided  not to
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint  him, so Ill explain why.
AXA had to make  it clear that the policy was optional and gain Mr Ms consent  before adding 
it to his loan. I have seen a copy  of Mr Ms loan application. I can see there  was a separate 
box headed Optional Payment Protection  Insurance. Within this box a selection  has been 
made to take PPI. Mr M also signed  a credit agreement that showed the cost of the optional 
PPI policy  that had been added to the loan.  So, taking  all this into consideration, I think Mr M 
knew the policy was optional and chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mr M so it didnt have to check  the policy was suitable  
for him, but it still had to provide him with clear information about the policy  so he could 
decide if he wanted to take it out.
Mr M says he would have received some sick pay if he was away  from work  due to illness. 
But the policy could  have paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer. Based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  So, I 
think it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was
affordable. So, I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Which means AXA doesnt have to pay back to Mr M the cost of the policy.
Ref: DRN33686722my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2021.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3368672