K821x#15complaint
Mr S says MYJAR  Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 8 loans MYJAR provided to Mr S between  March and October 2017. 
Mr Ss loans  were for between £100 and £2625. From what  I can see, Mr S has repaid all his 
loans.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint in part and thought MYJAR shouldnt have given 
Mr S any of the loans  from loan 4 onwards. MYJAR disagreed  and said it wasnt  clear  that 
the adjudicator  had reviewed all of the information  it had sent and there was a lack of 
reasoning in the view. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN36604282Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. 
MYJAR asked Mr S for information  about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr S said he earned between £1500 and £2400 a month  and his outgoings  
were £200.  
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Mr S provided 
or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr S was saying. So I cant say MYJAR  was wrong to 
have provided  loans one to three.
At the point of loan 4 I think the business should have looked more  closely  at Mr Ss finances  
given his borrowing  pattern. By loan 4, Mr S had been borrowing consistently and this was 
his fourth  loan in just under 5 months. Mr S asked for loan 4 the day that loan 3 was repaid. 
Mr S borrowed £1925 which was a significant amount over 12 months.  I think that by this 
stage MYJAR should have done  more to make sure this lending  was sustainable for Mr S 
given the amount borrowed and length of repayments.
Looking at Mr Ss borrowing history up to this point I can see that he repaid all his loans 
early but then within days asked to borrow  again. So MYJAR ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr S was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr S was not sustainably repaying  the 
credit. Mr Ss borrowing pattern was at odds with the amount of disposable  income he had 
declared. If MYJAR had carried out further  checks at the point of loan 4 it would have seen 
that this loan was unsustainable for Mr S. Mr S had other short term lending and was using 
credit to repay credit.
So I think that MYJAR shouldnt have given  Mr S loan 4. Mr S repaid loan 4 which was 
supposed to be over 12 months just over a month later and then a few days later asked for 
loan 5 for £100 which was repaid the following day. The very same day Mr S asked  for loan 
6 for £150. This erratic  borrowing was at odds with Mr Ss declared disposable income and 
suggested he was in financial difficulty. I agree with the adjudicator and I think that better  
checks would have  revealed that Mr S couldnt  sustainably afford  to repay these  loans.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ss lending with MYJAR  to see if there  was a point at 
which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr S.
Ref: DRN36604283Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan seven. I say this because:
When Mr S took out loan seven, hed been borrowing almost  continually and wasnt  
making any inroads  into the amount that he owed. 
Although Mr S repaid loan 7 a few days after taking it out, he asked to borrow loan 8 the 
same day and asked for a further  £1000. I think this pattern  of lending shouldve  alerted 
MYJAR to the likelihood that Mr S was having  problems responsibly managing his 
money. Although MYJAR suggests this pattern of early repayment shows the lending  
was affordable, I disagree  and think it is more likely  to suggest  borrowing from 
elsewhere. Mr S wasnt using the product  as intended  and so I think  the signs  were  
there that he wasnt using  the credit as a short term measure to a temporary cash  flow 
problem.
I think that Mr S lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards. This is because:
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Mr S had been borrowing 
from MYJAR was likely to have had negative implications  on his ability to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr S in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint about  loans 4 to 8.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans, not including  anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  entries from Mr Ss credit  file about loans 4 to 6. The number 
of loans  taken from loan seven  onwards  means  any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  7 and 8 should be removed  from Mr Ss 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. MYJAR  Limited  
should pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN36604284Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3660428