K821x#15Complaint
Mr T complains that Zurich Insurance PLC didnt settle his contents claim in a fair or timely 
way following a burglary  at his home.
Background
Mr T was a victim of a burglary in January 2018  and made a claim for the stolen property 
against his home contents insurance with Zurich. The stolen property included items  of 
jewellery that were  family heirlooms.
Zurich appointed an agent to value the jewellery and in my decision any reference to Zurich  
will also include the actions of this agent.
Zurich contacted Mr T and requested evidence to assist in valuing the stolen items. Because 
Mr T couldnt provide  receipts, he was asked to provide photos showing the items. Mr T was 
able to do this for some  of the items  and Zurich  made him a settlement  offer.
Mr T disagreed with the valuation of rings that were stolen that he said were set with 
diamonds. He disagreed  with the valuation  of a pocket watch  and chain, and the fact that 
hed been asked to provide a valuation which then wasnt accepted. Additionally  one of the 
photographs hed sent Zurich - of his late mother wearing a watch  that was stolen - wasnt  
returned by Zurich.
Zurich revised their settlement offer several  times  in response to complaints made by Mr T. 
Their final settlement offer was £4,915.09 which was made in November 2019. This figure 
included £700  in compensation - £600 for the time and upset in reaching  this settlement offer 
and £100 for the photo that was lost.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Mr T proposed a 
settlement figure of £8,527.62. His complaint was forwarded for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional decision
My initial view was different to that of our investigator, so I issued  a provisional decision to 
both parties to allow them to comment. In it I said:
I can see that this has been a drawn out and upsetting process for Mr T. When Mr T made 
his claim for the stolen  items his policy required  him to provide proof of ownership. This was 
understandably difficult with watches and jewellery that were inherited, which he had no 
receipts for. Mr T provided photos for five of the thirteen items  that were  included in his initial  
claim.
Mr T couldnt provide  any valuations for the stolen items. So Zurich  had to estimate the value 
of the stolen watches and jewellery based on the descriptions and the photographs Mr T 
could provide. In considering this complaint, it isnt my job to determine  what  the correct 
value of the items was, but rather to determine  whether Zurich treated the claim in a fair way.
In explaining  my decision Ill focus on what I think are the most  contentious  points. Id like to 
assure Mr T that Ive considered all the evidence. When the claim was first made  by Mr T, he 
placed a value on the lost items of £4,875  and £500  cash. The settlement that Zurich 
suggested had a retail value  of £4,103  for the items  and £500  cash.  
Ref: DRN33675752Mr T placed a value on his pocket  watch of £1,250 compared  with Zurichs estimate of £50. 
Mr T obtained a quote from a jeweller to replace the pocket watch  based on his description 
of it. Given that the jeweller hadnt  seen  the watch or a photo of it, I dont  think it would be 
fair to treat that as a valuation. The jeweller  headed the quote as opinion  of replacement 
price rather than a valuation. The jeweller  estimated that it could be replaced for £600, but 
given that was not a valuation I dont think it is fair to expect Zurich  to be bound by it.
Zurich modified its valuation of the watch when it was apparent  that it had not considered  the 
value of the watch chain described  as being  stolen  with it. Without  a better  description  of 
what the watch was, its condition or a valuation, I think the way that Zurich approached 
valuing the watch was fair. Mr T is unhappy because he says that he got the estimate 
because Zurich asked  him to. I cannot  see any evidence in the correspondence to indicate 
he was asked to do so. It would have been the case that if he had a valuation it wouldve 
supported the value  he placed on the watch. I cant on balance say that he was instructed to 
get a retrospective replacement  quote like he did.
Mr T described two ladies rings as being of 22 carat gold with diamonds. Zurichs initial 
quote for these was lower than Mr Ts. They quoted for 22 carat gold rings with synthetic 
diamonds. Mr T argued with the valuation, and it was explained  that Zurichs values were  
based on the fact that diamonds would  not normally be set in 22 carat  gold rings.  Given  that 
Zurich had to work from a description and photo  it is reasonable that there was confusion. 
The valuation of the rings was later amended to reflect the value of those  rings  if they had 
diamonds set in 18 carat gold. 
Here again,  because Mr T didnt have  valuations of these rings before they were stolen, their 
value is very much  speculative. Mr T had the benefit of having  seen them  in making  his 
assessment. But he is not a qualified jeweller  so isnt able to say with any certainty  that the 
values suggested  by Zurich are wrong.  In making  their final settlement offer though I think 
that Zurich have made a mistake. Their agent  provided a revised valuation per ring of £950 
at retail  and a cost to replace of £430 plus VAT. In their final settlement offer to Mr T they 
offered a cash settlement figure for each ring of £430. That cash settlement should have the 
VAT added.
The final settlement figure  that Mr T proposes was reached by taking the recommended  
retail valuations suggested by Zurich and his valuation of the pocket watch. Because  some 
of the figures  that Mr T used were  the recommended  retail prices of items, those prices 
already included VAT. Mr T then added VAT to that, so I dont think  Mr Ts proposal is fair.
Mr Ts insurance  policy covers - as contents policies tend to - putting the customer in the 
position they were  in before the event occurred. His policy said: 
we will decide whether  to repair or replace any item as new if available  (or 
otherwise with the nearest  equivalent) and we will have the option to do this by using 
one of our suppliers. If we can offer a repair or a replacement but we agree to make  
a cash payment instead, this payment will be limited to the cost of repair or 
replacement to us by our preferred supplier. If the item cannot be repaired or 
replaced with a like replacement by using one of our suppliers, we will pay for the full 
replacement cost.
The retail  prices provided by Zurich  were the equivalent values of the items being  replaced. 
In this case though Mr T didnt want the items replaced. This is understandable as 
replacement items wouldnt have the same  significance to him. Mr T wanted a cash 
settlement. So the terms of his policy meant  that Zurich were  only liable to pay what  it would  
Ref: DRN33675753cost them  to replace  the items.  Because  of this the cash  settlement offer that Zurich made 
was lower than the retail  prices quoted. I think what Zurich did was in line with Mr Ts policy  
and that the policy clearly  explained how his claim would be settled.
Zurich have shown  the differences between the retail price valuations  and the trade cost to 
them to replace the items. Ive looked  at that and, apart from the failure to add VAT to the 
two rings mentioned  above, the way the rest of the claim  was treated is fair. To put this right 
Zurich should  increase  the settlement offer by the cost of VAT on the two diamond rings 
valued at £430 each.
I can see from correspondence  that Zurich tried to explain why the settlement offer was less 
than the retail values.  Mr T says he was told in a phone call that VAT would be added to the 
quote from Zurichs valuers. I think the basis of the settlement could have been made clearer 
to Mr T. The claim  process has been drawn  out. Because  I think  that Zurich have still not 
correctly settled this claim,  theyre  responsible for the fact that this claim is not yet settled.  
Mr T has been  caused distress and inconvenience by the claims handling process. Zurich 
have offered £600 to compensate Mr T for that. That is in line with what  I would propose so I 
agree its a fair and reasonable way to compensate  for this.
Mr T is understandably upset at Zurichs  loss of the photo of his mother. He points out that 
no amount of compensation can replace the photo  which I understand. After initially offering 
£25 compensation  for the loss Zurich increased that offer to £100.  Mr T points out that this 
was a photo of his late mother as a young lady and he doesnt have a copy  of it. I think  the 
compensation offered is too low and I think £250  is fair and reasonable.
Mr T also raised the issue of his insurance premium  being  increased.  Hed like me to 
consider awarding  compensation  to offset  the increase paid. Ive considered this but dont 
think that Zurich have done anything  wrong. They have applied  their underwriting  criteria to 
Mr Ts renewal which took into account  his claim.  Had the claim been settled prior to the 
renewal date, then I believe the same  premium increase wouldve applied.  I understand that 
Mr T felt that he had no choice but to stay with Zurich  while  the claim was live, but Ive seen 
no evidence that he couldnt have shopped around  for alternative cheaper insurance if hed 
wished. So I wont be asking Zurich  to do anything to put this right.
The response  to my provisional  decision 
Mr T disagreed with my provisional decision on numerous points. Id like to reassure Mr T 
that Ive carefully  considered every point he made  in his response.  Most points he made  
were re-iterating his existing view rather than offering additional evidence  for me to consider. 
I highlight what I consider to be the main issues Mr T raised as:
-He was unaware of the valuation of the ladies diamond rings at £950,  so suggests 
his valuation should be higher than he originally said.  
-He states that he added  VAT in line with what he was told by Zurich.
-He reiterated  that his proposed settlement included £1,500  in compensation, 
excluding any compensation for the photograph.  He maintains that the compensation 
that I proposed  of £250 was too low. He explained  This photograph was the only 
one of its kind a totally irreplaceable  picture of my late mother taken in her youth. It 
would have been handed on to my son as a memento of his much  loved granny.
-He refutes that he could have sought  alternative  insurance while  the claim was 
unsettled.
Ref: DRN33675754-He submitted a revised settlement proposal of £8,900 - reached by adding  my 
proposed compensation and the missing £172 VAT on the rings  to his previous 
proposal of £8,527.61  and rounding down.
In Zurichs response they accepted that theyd  failed to add VAT to the settlement figure for 
the two diamond  rings  I identified. They explained  it was a mistake and that it would now be 
corrected in the settlement. They disagreed with my provisional decision to increase the 
compensation for the lost photo. They introduced additional evidence  relating to the photo. 
They provided an electronic copy of the photo  that Mr T sent to their valuers. They  also 
produced correspondence from their valuers which disputed that theyd received  the original 
copy. Zurich explain  that this informed  their decision not to award  more  than £100 
compensation.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the decision Ive come  to isnt the one Mr T wanted. Having looked at 
everything again I think that the explanation I provided in my provisional findings  above is 
still correct though.
Where Mr T declined  to have the stolen items of jewellery replaced  with like items, his policy  
only covered him for the cost to Zurich to replace  them. Id like to assure  Mr T that Ive gone 
through the claim  very carefully. Except  for the absence of VAT on the two rings  that I 
identified, I think the remainder of this claim was dealt with fairly.
Mr T queried  the valuation  of the diamond rings. The information I provided  was the retail 
valuation of each  item and the cost to Zurich to replace them. That accounts for the 
difference between  the £950 retail  valuation - which included VAT- and the replacement cost 
of £430 - which didnt  include VAT. In taking a cash settlement, Mr Ts settlement should 
have been the £430 plus VAT. As above,  Mr Ts policy doesnt entitle him to a cash  
settlement of the full retail price  of the item where a like replacement can be provided. In this 
case, it was possible  for Zurich to have provided Mr T with similar items.
Mr T disagreed with my decision  that the estimate  of a replacement  price for the pocket 
watch was not a valuation. He referred  to correspondence with Zurich that he says led him to 
obtain that estimate. Ive seen that correspondence though and it says,  unless you are able 
to provide documentation to support your comments I am unable  to alter the figure further. 
Zurich were correct to point this out. In this case Mr T couldnt provide such documentation. 
Sadly it just didnt exist.  The items in question had never been  professionally valued  and that 
couldnt be rectified once theyd been  stolen.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision I dont  agree  that Mr Ts proposed  
settlement is in line with the cover his policy provided. So I cant  agree with his suggestion 
that Zurich settle  with a payment of £8,900.
Zurich have said that the figure I suggested  for compensation for the loss of Mr Ts mothers  
photo was unfair. In support of this they provide  documentation where  their valuers  contest 
having lost the photo.
Mr T had emailed  copies of photos  to Zurich and then sent the originals by post in follow up. 
This was agreed. The photo in question was emailed at a later date and received by Zurich. 
Ref: DRN33675755Mr T says it was then sent by post in the same way as the earlier  ones. It seems  more likely 
than not that he did this, and in addressing this complaint previously Zurich apologised and 
offered compensation for it.
I uphold this element  of the complaint. In determining redress I considered the impact on 
Mr T because of the loss. This isnt mitigated by the question of whether Zurich were  
responsible or not at this stage. Im pleased to see that an electronic  copy of the photo still 
exists and can be shared  with Mr T if he doesnt have a copy  of his own. The photo  is an 
original black and white photo of his late mother as a young woman. It has been carefully 
kept by Mr Ts family for decades. He is understandably upset at the loss of the original 
photo which cant be replaced. So I still think that £250 compensation more appropriately 
addresses the upset  of this loss.
For the reasons  Ive given, my findings remain unchanged from the provisional decision set 
out above. Zurich should  amend  their settlement figure to include the VAT on the two rings 
valued at £430 each.  The total compensation Zurich should  pay Mr T for the trouble and 
upset caused  is £850  made up of the £600  compensation for the failings in service 
explained in my provisional decision  and £250  for the upset of the lost photo.
My final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich  to do the following:
1.Adjust their final settlement figure  by adding VAT to the two diamond rings with 
replacement values  of £430 each
2.Pay Mr T a total of £850  compensation, comprising  £600 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the confusion  and delay and £250  for the upset  caused by the loss of the 
photo.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3367575