K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from Barclays Bank  UK PLC when he set up 
a new direct debit.
background 
Mr M is unhappy  with the poor service he received from Barclays. He set up a second direct  
debit to his council. But he paid the first instalment in cash. Mr M realised £312.99 had been 
taken from his account by mistake. Hed paid twice  and was advised  how to get a refund.
He called Barclays in October 2018 and they said theyd make a chargeback  request.  But 
when he checked  his account  hed only been credited with £113.  So he called Barclays 
again but didnt realise hed then been  credited  with £312.99. 
Mr M said he then received a letter from the council saying he owed £113  and would be 
taken to court. His £113 payment to the council had been taken back by the bank. So he 
would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience Barclays  has caused.
Barclays said it could see Mr M had made two indemnity claims in October 2018. During the 
first call Mr M had said hed made  a payment for his council tax by cash. And the local 
authority had advised him to contact  Barclays to process a refund for the overpayment.  
Barclays said its adviser made Mr M aware  that the amount was for £113 and Mr M 
consented to the disclaimer  that he might face legal action  if he received a refund  he wasnt 
entitled to. 
A few days  later Mr M called again to say hed made  a cash payment as well as a direct 
debit. And hed been instructed to process a refund  claim. The adviser made  Mr M aware of 
the amount,  £312.99, and Mr M consented  again to the disclaimer.
Barclays said itd acted  upon Mr Ms specific instructions to raise both claims. So it wasnt  
responsible for the court action that was brought against him. But it awarded Mr M £50 
compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Barclays  response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see thered been  some confusion when Mr M 
tried to get his refunds.  But she didnt think it was because of a banking error. Mr M had 
confirmed the amounts  and acknowledged the warnings  of legal action if he received a 
refund he wasnt entitled  to. And she could see Barclays had offered a further £100 for 
Mr Ms distress  and inconvenience. And she thought  that was fair and reasonable.
Mr M didnt  agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres clearly  been  some confusion over Mr Ms payments to his council. And he feels 
Barclays didnt do enough to help him. So Ive looked very carefully  at whats happened.  And 
what, if anything,  Barclays  needs to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN34073712It seems  Mr M had two direct debits  to his council, one for £113 and one for £312.99. 
However Mr M paid the first instalment of his new bill in cash. So when the second  debit was 
set up it paid the first instalment again.  The council advised Mr M to contact Barclays  to 
arrange a refund.
Ive listened to Mr Ms first call on 8 October 2018. He explains the situation.  And the adviser 
confirms the claim had been successful and a refund  of £113 had been credited to Mr Ms 
account. So it seems  the adviser had refunded the wrong payment.  But when the adviser  
confirmed the amount  Mr M didnt query it. He only realised some  time later the wrong 
amount has been  paid.
Mr M spoke  to Barclays again on 11 October. He explained the situation  again. And he 
asked the bank to claim back  the payment for £312.99. But Mr M didnt mention the previous 
call on 8 October or that hed also been  refunded £113 a few days  earlier.
The result was that Mr M sorted out his double-payment  of £312.99. But his other  direct  
debit  for £113   had also been  refunded  by mistake. And shortly afterwards Mr M received 
a letter  from the council demanding payment of the missing amount.
Barclays said it couldve sorted  things  out sooner if Mr D had told them about the problem. 
And it did advise he make  a payment for £113 as soon as possible  when it realised whatd 
happened. 
It seems  Barclays adviser arranged a refund for the wrong debit during the first call. But he 
did confirm the amount  as £113.  And Mr D didnt query or correct  the mistake. Mr D was also 
asked to confirm  he understood he would be liable for any legal action  if he claimed a refund 
he wasnt entitled to. 
So I dont  think Barclays has really made a mistake  here. It carried out Mr Ds request for a 
refund of his payment to his council and confirmed the amount with him. Mr D didnt say the 
wrong payment  had been refunded. And when he asked  for the correct  payment to be 
refunded a few days later he didnt mention hed already had a refund of £113  which  needed 
to be sorted  out as well.
I do appreciate how upsetting  it mustve been for Mr M. While  trying to sort out a double-
payment hes ended up with a court demand for the cancelled £113  payment with a further 
£85.50 in costs.
But based  on everything Ive seen I cant really  hold Barclays responsible for the mistake 
that led to the court  action. It tried to follow Mr Ms instructions  and he didnt correct the 
mistake when the wrong figure was confirmed  to him.
Im pleased to see the bank has acknowledged  the confusion that took place. And its agreed 
to offer Mr M a further £100  compensation for any distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
That brings the total to £150.  And I think thats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr M a total of £150 
compensation as it has already agreed to do.
Ref: DRN34073713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3407371