K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Mrs A have  complained about the service  Mrs A received when she sought  
assistance under their breakdown recovery policy with Liverpool Victoria  Insurance 
Company Limited  (LV). 
background
Mrs A contacted LV for recovery  in May 2019  as the car engine was making  a noise. She 
said the agent who attended advised her that it was safe to drive her car locally  but not on 
the motorway. So Mrs A said she declined recovery. She had work meetings she needed to 
go that day.
Later that day Mrs A left a meeting and she said the noise from the engine was louder and 
her car wouldnt start. She said she called LV for recovery  and an agent gave her different  
information this time  she was advised  to take her car to a garage. 
Mrs A said the garage told her there  was an issue with the timing  belt and its possible that 
further damage was caused to her car by continuing  to drive it since  shed called for 
assistance that morning. 
Mrs A complained to LV. But LV said Mrs A signed the agents online check  sheet  that 
morning. This check sheet said the agent had advised Mrs A not to drive her car and that 
shed declined recovery. It said the second  agent  correctly said there was an issue  with the 
engine. So LV didnt uphold Mrs As complaint.
Mrs A said the agreement she signed  with the first agent only confirmed that hed attended 
the call out. So she asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Mrs As testimony  was persuasive. And she thought the layout of 
the screen which Mrs A signed electronically  wasnt as clear  as it could have been. But she 
thought that because there were problems  with the car that morning, it was difficult to say 
that LV was therefore responsible for any potential further damage  caused. 
The investigator spoke  to the mechanic who carried out the repairs to Mrs As car. He said it 
was possible that some of the damage might  have been prevented if Mrs A had brought  her 
car in to have the timing belt replaced  prior to any problems.  So the investigator 
recommended LV pay £145 as half of the difference in the repair bill for potential  additional 
damage caused. And she thought LV should pay Mrs A £100  compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Mrs A was unhappy that she didnt have a hire car available  for longer  than LV allowed. But 
the investigator said LV had provided a car for the duration set out in the policy.  
LV didnt agree. It said its agents  use an electronic device to record the breakdowns they 
attend  this is for theirs and the customers protection. LV said the boxes cannot be edited 
after the customer signs the screen.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said LV was in breach of its agreement and it hasnt done enough to 
put things right. Mrs A said the advice she received from the first agent  could  have caused  
injury to her and others.  
Ref: DRN38471382So as both parties disagree,  the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A said that if shed been advised  not to drive her car by the first agent,  she wouldnt 
have gone against the advice and declined recovery to a nearby garage  as this is why she 
contacted LV in the first place. She needed  to use her car locally  for work meetings and this 
included driving  children in her car.
LV has provided  a printout  of a signed  online  check sheet from the call out. This shows that 
the following  boxes  were ticked: declined recovery service  and advised not to drive 
vehicle. Underneath Mrs As signature  it reads  I have read and accepted  the statement on 
this report. 
Mrs A told us that there  was nothing on the screen when she signed  the statement online via 
the agents tablet. And our investigator said she couldnt be certain if Mrs A could see what  
was on the screen   or if the boxes could have been  ticked after she signed. 
However, LV said the process it uses specifically protects its suppliers from situations such  
as this. It said its impossible for the agent  to tick the boxes after the customer  has signed  
and its impossible for the customer to sign the agreement if there isnt anything  on the 
screen. 
But I think in this situation I can see how Mrs A signed the online document  on the basis  
that she wasnt using  recovery  and under pressure to get to work. As I understand it, the 
agent would  have ticked the boxes  before  Mrs A signed  so Mrs A didnt tick them  herself.
And Im more persuaded  by Mrs As account  that the agent advised her she could drive her 
car locally. It makes no sense for Mrs A to have  driven the car - having called for recovery   
and having then been told not to drive it. 
Mrs A has provided a copy of an invoice  from a garage dated 11 June  2019.  The total costs 
to repair  Mrs As car came  to £1,080. Our investigator spoke  to the mechanic at the garage 
to discuss the repairs.  The mechanic  said that he couldnt say how much damage had been 
caused by continuing to drive that day. But he said that it was possible that the repairs might  
have been reduced to between £700  and £800  if the timing  belt had been changed prior to 
any problems.
Theres no way of knowing for sure whether there was additional damage  caused  to Mrs As 
car by continuing to drive it. There would be no benefit in having Mrs As car assessed  by an 
independent engineer now as the repairs have been  done. We know that there was a 
problem with the car that required repair. This is why Mrs A called for recovery in the 
morning. 
But its also possible that further damage was caused by continuing to drive it with a known 
problem. So I agree with the investigators approach to putting things right. The cost to 
replace the timing belt including labour would have been approximately £750 and the actual  
repair bill was £290 more  than this. 
Ref: DRN38471383So I think LV should  pay half of the difference, being  £145. And I agree that LV should pay 
Mrs A £100  compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I understand Mrs A believes LV should  be accountable for what  might have happened.  But 
we can only look at what actually happened. And LV provided  a hire car for the time its 
policy allowed. Mrs A said this caused  her inconvenience as she had to share a car with her 
husband while her car was being  repaired. But I think this inconvenience isnt something LV 
needs to compensate Mrs A for as her car would have always needed to go to a garage for 
repair  whether it had been recovered  by LV or not.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited  to do the following:
Pay £145 toward the repair costs  of Mrs As car.
Pay interest on this sum at a rate of 8% simple  interest a year from the date of 
the invoice to the date it pays Mrs A and Mr N.
Pay Mrs A and Mr N £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it 
caused.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mrs A and Mr N accept my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must  also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold  income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mrs A and Mr N how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs A and Mr N a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3847138