K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
catalogue shopping account in 2006.  Mrs F says Studio  Retail Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs F says that the PPI policy was sold to her over the phone  she said she didnt want 
or need the policy.  Studio has shown  that Mrs Fs account was open for about  a year 
before the policy was added, and while  its records dont  confirm  exactly how the policy 
was added, Studio thinks its likely  it was over the phone. Because of this, it has supplied  
some scripts that were in use at the time it sold PPI to Mrs F. These show  that the 
representative wouldve been prompted  to point out that the policy  was optional, and 
gain consent for it to be added.  While I cant be certain how closely the scripts  wouldve 
been followed, I havent seen  anything to suggest  that Studio  did anything differently  
when it sold the PPI to Mrs F  and as she already  had her account without PPI for some  
time, I think she wouldve  known she didnt need to have the policy   although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this as it was so long ago.
Studio  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs F got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Studio gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted  
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of  her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
This means Studio doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Studio has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because:  
Studio  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because Studio didnt tell Mrs F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Studio has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  from 6 April 2007  this is the date when Mrs Fs 
lending became regulated and we became able to look at a complaint about the credit. I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN31798052Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Studio Retail Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Studio Retail Limited  does  have to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums paid on or after 6 April 2007   I 
understand it has already done this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3179805