K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained that Red Sands  Insurance  Company (Europe) Limited  unfairly 
refused to pay her claim under her pet policy.
background
Miss Rs cat was ill throughout 2017 and 2018. The vet initially  thought she was suffering 
from cystitis and treated her for that. Miss R consequently made a claim in March 2018 and 
Red Sands  paid £701.52 for this treatment  in accordance with the policy  terms.
Red Sands  received two further claims for cystitis in June 2018 from Miss R. It paid a total of 
£640.37 for both of these claims.
However also in June 2018 Miss R made  a further  claim, this time for carcinoma in the 
bladder. Red Sands assessed this and only paid £563.22 of the £2,256.31 claimed.  It said 
Miss Rs policy  provided cover of £2,000 per condition  per year and unfortunately with the 
other claims,  she had reached her limit hence the limited payment. It was of the view that the 
bladder cancer claim was a continuation  of the cystitis claims.
Miss R disagreed. She was of the view they were separate  conditions.  Red Sands didnt 
agree so Miss R brought her complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that based  on the evidence provided to Red Sands, it hadnt 
done anything  wrong in limiting Miss Rs claim. Miss R continued to disagree, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
The investigator explained the definitions  in the policy  of both condition and treatment. 
Miss R believes  the issue  is about  what the diagnosis is, as in her cat was first diagnosed 
with cystitis and then diagnosed with bladder cancer, therefore these are two diagnoses and 
are consequently not the same. However, condition isnt defined in the policy  solely as a 
diagnosis, its defined  as follows:
Condition means  any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or 
any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting  
from the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents  areas  of your 
pets body affected.
It was because of this, Red Sands believed the cancer claim was a continuation of the 
previous claims.  I dont  consider  that to be an unreasonable assumption for Red Sands to 
make at this stage.
However, following  Miss Rs dissatisfaction with this, Red Sands asked Miss R to provide 
further evidence.  I consider  this was a reasonable request  for Red Sands to make as it 
showed it was willing to consider such further evidence. Her vet came back with the 
following:
Ref: DRN36735102Please reassess  the recent insurance  claim for carcinoma  as it is believed that 
previous treatment for cystitis may [my emphasis] not be related to this condition.
That is all it said. It didnt discuss why this might  be, having regard to the vet history of 
Miss Rs cat or indeed,  who or what thought this may be the case. It was written  in the third 
person so its then assumed the author is simply relaying information, other than having that 
view herself. I dont  consider that was sufficiently detailed or clear  based on the actual 
history of the vet treatment of Miss Rs cat, to show that Red Sands thoughts on the matter  
were at all wrong. Had the vet detailed clearly with reference to the cats vet history  why the 
conditions werent  linked, that could  have been much more  persuasive. But the vet didnt do 
this.
Looking at the vet history  in detail, whilst it is clear Miss Rs cat was indeed being treated for 
cystitis, it was merely deemed  likely  it was cystitis as detailed on 3 December 2017 entry 
but that the work up earlier showed  no crystallurea, which  I understand tends to be present 
if a cat is suffering  from cystitis. On 16 February  2018, the cat was showing signs of cystitis 
despite medication for it, which  again  to me shows it wasnt  very clear.  The first scan done  it 
appears in May 2018, was inconclusive because bladder was empty  at time of scan, which  
indicates that had the cat had a full bladder, the scan would have been more  conclusive as 
to its result.
However, crucially throughout the vet history of the cat, the symptoms are, as Red Sands  
said, linking together quite clearly on the balance of probability in my view,  culminating very 
sadly, in a diagnosis  of cancer for Miss Rs cat. Theres  a lack of definitive evidence of 
cystitis despite the symptoms and medication  being given, and it continues to reappear  sadly  
without being  resolved.
Therefore, considering everything, most  importantly  the lack of any detail from Miss Rs vet 
when asked why the claims were  not linked, I dont  consider Red Sands did anything wrong 
in assessing the claim  as continuation claim. 
Theres no dispute on the issue that if the claims were linked as Red Sands believed, that 
Miss R had then reached her annual condition limit.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3673510