K820x#14complaint
J Ltd complained  that Aviva Insurance Limited  refused to pay their claim under their fleet
motor insurance policy  after their car was stolen.
background
After J Ltds car was stolen, they reported  it to the police and made a theft claim to Aviva.
However the police  discovered that the car had been cloned.  So Aviva  declined their claim,
cancelled their insurance and refunded their premium. They said that J Ltd didnt have
insurable interest in the car.
But J Ltd said that they werent to know that the car was cloned or stolen, as theyd  bought it
in good faith and done checks on it before they bought it. Their manager  Ms G made the
complaint on their behalf.
The investigator didnt  recommend that their complaint should be upheld. She didnt think
that sufficient steps were  taken to ensure that the car was genuine, and so didnt ask Aviva
to do anything more . But J Ltd didnt agree and so their case  was passed  to me to
decide.
I issued my provision decision on the case on 17 June 2019,  saying  I didnt intend  to uphold 
the complaint.  Aviva  didnt add anything. Ms G, on J Ltds behalf,  made  some  further  
comments since then, which I have read in full and respond to below. I dont deal with every  
point again, as I consider Ive already covered the matters they raise. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J Ltds car was stolen about ten days after they bought it. They reported the theft to the
police, who discovered  that their car was a cloned copy  of another  car. In other  words,  
someone already  owned a car with that registration  number. Cloning is a type of car identity 
theft. It happens when someone takes  the registration and other information about a car 
owned by someone  else (the real car), and applies them  to another, usually stolen car, (the 
cloned car).Those responsible will often then steal back the cloned car.
When Aviva  discovered that the car was cloned,  they said that their contract  with J Ltd to
insure the car wasnt valid.  This was because J Ltd didnt have insurable interest in the car
theyd insured - the real car - because J Ltd didnt legally own the real car. It was never 
actually theirs. And the car J Ltd did have was not the one Aviva thought it was when they 
entered into the insurance contract.
Aviva accepted that J Ltd didnt know the car was cloned, but they felt that J Ltd could have
done more to check its genuineness before buying it. So Aviva said that J Ltds  loss
occurred when they bought the car, not when  it was stolen, and Aviva werent liable for that
under the policy.  They  wouldnt pay the theft claim and said that J Ltd.s recourse was
against the seller  of the car.
Ref: DRN33376202At one point  Aviva suggested that J Ltd could be seen as handling stolen goods. J Ltd were
understandably very unhappy about  that as they said theyd acted in good faith. I think that 
Avivas comment  was unfortunate, but I see that they apologised for that. They  also offered J 
Ltd £100 in compensation  for not giving  them good service just after the cars theft, when 
they asked about tracking  the car. I think that Avivas compensation for that was fair.
J Ltd wanted Aviva to pay their claim. They  said that theyd  bought and insured the car in
good faith and they felt that theyd carried out all necessary checks to protect themselves.
In deciding if an insurer has acted  fairly  and reasonably in rejecting a claim in these
circumstances, we look at whether the policyholder bought the second hand car in good faith
and took all reasonable steps beforehand to ensure  that it was genuine. We think
reasonable steps would include matters like checking whether  the cars purchase  price was
comparable to that of similar cars in make,  model  and age, obtaining the cars registration
form and a purchase receipt both showing the sellers contact details (-even  though these
might turn out later to be false). Wed also expect  the buyer do a check on the cars history.
Ms G told us as follows. The car was for sale on an online  auction  website. It was advertised
there as being  grey in colour. J Ltds  director,  Mr G, went to view the car at what  appeared
to be a family home. The seller told Mr G that he was selling the car at a lower  price to
achieve a quick  sale as he was going through an acrimonious divorce and his ex-partner had
attacked the car on several occasions  and had destroyed the spare  key. The car did have
some damage to its sides.
Mr G paid £9,500  for the car in cash.  He got a handwritten  receipt, but didnt get the cars
service history and only got one car key. The receipt  shows  the sellers name and address
on it. J Ltd said that they also received  the V5 registration form, and that it showed the 
sellers name and address. They showed us the part of the registration form that theyd  sent 
to the DVLA, but that particular part doesnt show us the sellers name and address. The 
registration form says that the cars  colour was silver.
Ms G says that, before they bought  the car, they also did an online car history check which
didnt suggest  any problems. She showed  us copy of that result. It was dated  6 November
and said:
there is no adverse data recorded  against  the number plate youve provided. However, to
ensure youre  fully protected  we still need  to check a few more details relating to the
VIN/Chassis number V5C/Logbook. Please provide the rest of the vehicle details by
06/12/2017 and before purchasing the vehicle.
J Ltd said that they did the online check on the morning before they bought the car. But
although the above online car history check result, and the payment receipt for that check,
are both dated 6 November, the receipt for their cash purchase of the car is dated 5
November. 
So I didnt think that J Ltd had shown  that they did any online check  before they
bought the car. Ms G says that they paid the deposit on 5 November and returned on 6 
November after doing the online car history check to pay the balance.  Nevertheless the 
receipt for the balance is dated  5 November.
In any event, I accepted  that if, before they bought the car, J Ltd had done that same online 
check, its result would have been the same. 
Ref: DRN33376203But J Ltd didnt  take the checking companys recommendation and enter the vehicle 
identification number  (VIN)/chassis number before buying the car. The problem with omitting 
that step and only providing the registration number is that the car may not show as stolen. 
Thats because the registration number has been  cloned from the real car. But the real car 
hasnt been stolen. However if the VIN as well as the registration  number  is checked  that 
might flag up other issues, and if the VIN doesnt  match the registration number on the V5 
that may indicate  cloning.
Ms G said that she had checked  the VIN on the different parts  of the car and they matched
each other  and didnt look as if theyd been  tampered with. But thats  not the issue. 
Whats relevant is whether J Ltd checked  before purchase that the VIN on the car they 
bought matched the other information  they were given about  the car such  as its V5 
registration form. Theres no suggestion that they did. J Ltd say that theres no obligation on 
a car buyer to do those checks, but we do think that its a reasonable precaution to take 
before buying  a second hand car for about £10,000  in cash.  
In Ms Gs comments  on my provisional decision  shes said that even if she had input the 
cloned cars VIN, instead of just the registration  number,  into the online car history check  
before J Ltd bought the car, it wouldnt have shown  up any adverse history  for the car. 
She said that this was because shed given the cloned cars VIN, not its registration number, 
to the car tracking company after the car was stolen, and theyd claimed  to be able to track  
the car, though ultimately Aviva wouldnt pay to activate the tracking. But, assuming the 
tracking company  did genuinely track  a car using  that VIN, it could at most it mean that they 
were tracking the cloned car. It doesnt  mean that the VIN on the cloned car matched the 
VIN on the real car. 
Ms G has also sent us a copy email  from the company with whom  she did the online history  
check on the car on 6 November. It says:
On 06/11/2017 when you checked  the vehicle it was clear.
You then updated  your check on 15/11/2017 and included  the VIN on this report, at this time 
the vehicle showed as stolen with a marker dated  14/11/2017.
In conclusion when  you first checked  the vehicle the reason it showed as clear  was due to 
the fact that the police only added their marker on the 14*^ of November and this was added  
the same  day to HPI.
Ms G says that this also confirms that the VIN number she had and the one on the cloned 
car were the same. But at most  the email suggests that the online check company allowed 
Ms G to enter into their system the VIN of the cloned car after it was stolen. It still doesnt 
confirm that the VINs of the cloned  car and the real car were the same.  The issue is whether 
J Ltd made reasonable checks that the VIN on the car they bought  matched the real cars 
VIN. 
And regardless of what the email  says about  why Ms Gs original check didnt show the car 
as stolen, I think its more  likely  that was because the real car with that registration hadnt  
been stolen. So none of this changes my view about  the reasonableness  of J Ltds  checks 
on the car before they bought it.   
Ref: DRN33376204I thought that there were other reasons which should have alerted J Ltd to make further 
checks on the car. In particular, I thought  that the cars  price  should have caused them some 
concern. The investigator checked the motor  trade  guide we use to determine  car values 
and found that a similar car has a market value of about £14,000 - £15,000.  
J Ltd paid £9,500 for the car, so that was much  less than its market  value. And although they 
said it had some damage to its side panels, and only had one key, I didnt think those issues 
would reasonably justify such a large  discount  in market value. Its also possible to do an 
online valuation check as part of a cars  history  check but Id not seen anything  to suggest 
that J Ltd did this. As regards the sellers reasons for the selling price,  I appreciated that a 
divorce is a reason someone may wish to sell a car quickly,  but again its unlikely to warrant 
such a large reduction  in market value. And I didnt think  that the other reason the seller 
gave, that his ex-wife  kept tying to attack  the car, was plausible.
Ms G didnt agree with the valuation that the investigator relied on and thought that it was too 
high. But the investigator used the trade guide valuations that its Services policy  to use, and 
we find them reliable.  Ms G also felt that given the cars bodywork damage and that it had 
only one key, the price  was not unreasonable. But she hasnt  said anything to make me 
change my mind on that. She also suggested that Aviva should have checked and advised if 
they felt J Ltd were  paying over the odds for the car and potentially  being the victim of crime, 
but theres no obligation on an insurer to do that, as its the consumers responsibility to take 
reasonable precautions.
I saw that thered been a lot of discussion about the cars colour.  It seems  that at some point
J Ltd had described  the car as black. But the online advert had described it as grey, and the
V5 referred to it as silver. So the investigator  though  that these discrepancies  should have
raised J Ltd.s suspicions and should  have prompted them  to do further checks to be carried
out on the car itself. However  Ms G thought that it was pedantic to focus  on the cars colour.
She felt that the cars colour could potentially  be described as black, grey or silver, as they 
were all in the same  colour  range. J Ltd didnt think that this was a discrepancy that they 
should have spotted or that should  have made them suspicious. I accepted that colour can 
be matter of opinion,  so that sort of discrepancy  on its own wouldnt necessarily  be expected 
to alert them to a problem with the car. But given all the other factors  Ive mentioned above, I 
did think that there was enough to raise their suspicions about the genuineness of the car 
and enough to have prompted them to do the above  reasonable checks before they bought 
it. I also took into account that J Ltd are a business,  and had several other cars on their 
insurance policy with Aviva,  and so they had experience of buying cars.
Taking all J Ltds  new comments into account, I dont see any reason to change  my 
provisional view.  I still accept that J Ltd bought the car in good faith, in that they didnt know  
that it was cloned.  But taking all the above factors together, I still dont think that it was 
unreasonable of Aviva  to decide that J Ltd didnt  take reasonable care and do reasonable 
checks before buying the car. I appreciate that the situation is very unfortunate for J Ltd and 
that it must  have been stressful for those  involved there to have been the victim  of a crime. 
But it wasnt  Avivas fault that J Ltd bought a car that was not genuine.  And so I agree  that J 
Ltds loss occurred when  they bought the car and not when  it was stolen. I dont think that 
Aviva were  liable under  the policy for that loss. And so I cant say that it was unreasonable of 
Aviva to decline J Ltds claim, and I dont  ask them to do anything else.
Ref: DRN33376205my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision 
that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3337620