K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  was 
irresponsible to agree  to lend to him.
Background
Mr G took out 22 instalment loans with Sunny between August 2017  and April 2018. Mr G 
says that he was borrowing money from various  short term lenders to help support his 
gambling habit.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Gs complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans six to 22. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mr G had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove loans six onwards entirely from Mr Gs 
credit file. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said that the monthly  repayments  
represented a small percentage of Mr Gs declared  monthly income of £2,080. Sunny says 
that Mr G was able to repay all of the loans. It points  to the fact that Mr G repaid  some loans 
early as an indication  that they were affordable for him.
Sunny said that it took account  of the fact that Mr G was repaying  more than one loan at the 
same time when assessing  affordability.  Sunny said that it offers customers a flexible 
product allowing them to take out up to four loans at any one time.
As Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation, the complaint has come  to me 
for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN38845092the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to five. Because  of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr G had 
with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when considering his other loans.
Loans six to 22
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr G with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr G any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Gs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Gs borrowing suggested  that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr G had taken out in less than two months. Mr G took out 
loan six on 7 October 2017.  I can see that hed repaid  an earlier  £600  loan on 2 October  
before taking out another £600 loan on 5 October 2017 and then repaying that loan the next 
day. I think this unusual pattern of settling loans  much  earlier  than Mr G had originally 
agreed might have been an indication that he was borrowing  elsewhere  to juggle 
repayments. I cant see how all of the repayments  would have coincided  with Mr Gs pay 
dates so I would question how he was able to repay  large amounts in quick succession.
Ref: DRN38845093Mr G continued to take new lending that overlapped with a previous loan - sometimes 
borrowing three times in the same month. So Sunny should have realised that it was more 
likely than not Mr G was reliant on short term lending and needed to borrow further  to fill the 
hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his finances. 
Although the amounts that Mr G borrowed  sometimes  fluctuated, he often went on to borrow 
more money within the same month.  For example in January 2018  Mr G borrowed a total 
of £450 over three separate loans. Mr G did the same in March 2018. 
In the final month of taking out loans  with Sunny, Mr G borrowed a total of £1,150  over nine 
days. Mr G wasnt  making any real inroads into what he owed Sunny and his indebtedness  
was being prolonged.  This meant that Mr G had been paying large amounts of interest to, in 
effect; service a debt to Sunny  over a long period.
I think that Mr G lost out because Sunny continued to lend money from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about  loans six to 22. 
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr G paid on loans six to 22;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 22 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 22 should be removed from Mr Gs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN38845094My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3884509