K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  
S.A. (Mapfre) declined  his travel insurance claim.  My references to Mapfre include its 
agents.
background
Mr O was on a business  trip. He says while he was carrying his laptop  in his shoulder  bag 
between his hotel  and a workshop his bottle of water spilt on the laptop. He claimed for 
accidental damage  of the laptop.
Mapfre declined the claim. It relied  on the exclusion in the personal baggage section of the 
policy which  said it wouldnt cover:
Wear and tear, loss of value,  mechanical  or electrical breakdown or damage caused  by  
leaking powder  or fluid in your baggage.
Mapfre said as the damage was caused by leaking water in Mr Os baggage the claim wasnt 
covered.
Mr O complained to us. He said the damage happened while he was carrying out work 
related duties and the computer was in his workbag. He thought Mapfre couldnt fairly  call 
his workbag baggage. Hed sent Mapfre definitions of baggage hed found on the internet 
which he thought  supported that his workbag wasnt baggage.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had fairly considered Mr Os workbag to be baggage to 
decline the claim.
Mr O disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint and 
say Mapfre must reassess the claim. I said:
Mapfre referred to the exclusion  in the personal  baggage section to decline the claim. 
However, from the information  Ive seen Mr O had a single trip policy  for the business  trip 
and had business cover  under the policy. 
The business cover  section says Mr Os business equipment is covered for:
After taking off an amount for age, wear and tear and loss of value, we will reimburse  you 
for an item of business equipment that you have  lost or that has been damaged or stolen. 
There is a limit for each  single article, set or pair, as set out in the table of benefits.
The policy defines  business  equipment as:
Computer equipment and other business  related equipment which you need for your 
business and which is not insured elsewhere.
Ref: DRN34758762From the information I have Mr Os claim for the damaged laptop should be assessed under 
the business cover section of the policy. I cant see the business cover section has any 
exclusion equivalent to the personal baggage  exclusion that Mapfre  relied  on to decline the 
claim.
I dont think Mapfre fairly  relied on the personal  baggage  exclusion  to decline the claim. In 
these circumstances  I dont need to decide  if Mapfre fairly considered Mr Os workbag  to be 
baggage.
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome of Mr Os complaint  is for Mapfre  to reassess his 
claim in line with the policy terms, limits and excess under the business cover section and 
related policy  sections.
I dont need Mapfre  to tell me the outcome of its reassessment of the claim in response  to 
my provisional decision. It just needs to tell me if it objects to the claim being reassessed as 
detailed in my provisional decision below, and if so why. Once the reassessment had taken 
place if the parties  dont  agree then ultimately Mr O can make a separate complaint to us.
further developments since my provisional decision
Mapfre asked for evidence that the laptop  was company property or used specifically for 
business use, which Mr O provided.
Mapfre then confirmed it would pay the claim under the business cover  subject to the limits 
and remaining terms and conditions, which  Mr O accepted. Mr O also wanted to raise that 
Mapfre had treated him unfairly as he said it could  have  agreed to pay much sooner rather 
him waiting  six months. He thought  Mapfre had done everything  it could to try to avoid 
paying the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has now agreed to pay Mr Os claim  under  the business cover  within  the policy, 
subject to the limits and remaining terms and conditions, and Mr O agrees. So for the 
reasons given in my provisional findings  and these findings I uphold this complaint.  I order 
Mapfre to take the action  detailed in my final decision  below.
Mr O has now raised  his concerns about how Mapfre dealt with his claim, and I understand 
his thoughts. But as service  issues  have  only been  raised at this late stage Mr O will need to 
raise a separate complaint  if he is seeking compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
due to Mapfres alleged  poor service.  He will need  to first raise that complaint with Mapfre.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay 
the claim in line with the policy terms, limits and excess under  the business  cover section, as 
both parties have now agreed.
Ref: DRN34758763Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. must  make 
payment within  28 days  of us telling it that Mr O accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3475876