K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has been reporting a loan to credit reference  
agencies when they previously said that wouldnt happen.
background
Mrs L had a previous  complaint with Barclays, and as part of the resolution they agreed to 
provide her with a resolve loan (an interest free loan). Barclays  told Mrs L the loan wouldnt 
be reported to credit reference  agencies unless she missed payments.
When checking earlier this year, Mrs L discovered  the loan was showing  on her credit  file. 
She feels its having an adverse effect on her credit score, meaning its more difficult  for her 
to borrow money, either at all or at favourable rates. Mrs L says resolve loans  are given to 
people in financial difficulties and that this means  anyone looking at her credit file will think 
badly of her.
In dealing with Mrs Ls complaint,  Barclays  apologised and said theyd made a mistake. 
They said the information given to Mrs L during her previous complaint had been incorrect.  
Barclays offered £50 compensation to Mrs L but she didnt think that was enough  and asked 
our service  to look into the matter.
An investigator here said that Barclays  had actually given Mrs L correct information  during 
her previous  complaint, because the loan wasnt initially  being reported to the credit  
reference agencies.  But they felt the way the matter had been  handled  and the service 
provided hadnt been acceptable, and so recommended  a total of £150 compensation be 
paid.
Barclays agreed to the investigators recommendations but Mrs L didnt. Mrs L feels  the loan 
was mis-sold to her because she was given incorrect information. Mrs L has asked for the 
loan to be written off and for it to be removed from her credit file. She also wants  Barclays  to 
cover interest shes paid to other credit providers,  because shes  been unable to take 
advantage of 0% balance  transfer offers.
Because agreement  couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to clarify the issues Ive looked  into, because Im unable to revisit  those  which 
one of my ombudsman colleagues  looked  into in 2017.
1)Did Barclays  give Mrs L incorrect information about the resolve loan, and does that 
mean it was mis-sold?
2)Was Barclays wrong to start reporting the loan to credit reference  agencies, and if so, 
did that cause  Mrs L any detriment?
Having considered these concerns of Mrs Ls, Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator  for largely the same reasons. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN37686662I dont believe Barclays gave Mrs L incorrect information when she took out the resolve  loan. 
Thats because it wasnt being reported to credit  reference agencies to begin with  as per 
the original advice. So I dont think that means the loan was mis-sold to Mrs L, because  she 
was given correct  information at the time.
What I think went wrong here is Barclays not telling Mrs L when things changed. I think this 
is something they shouldve done,  so it didnt then come as a shock  to Mrs L when she saw 
the loan on her credit file. But the terms and conditions of the loan always allowed Barclays  
to share  information  with credit reference  agencies   it was just that theyd  chosen  not to at 
the time it was provided to Mrs L. I dont  think  its wrong for Barclays to now be following the 
terms and conditions, given the importance of credit files showing accurate information.
Mrs L says resolve loans are typically given  to people  in financial difficulty  and because  of 
this anyone looking at her credit file will think badly of her. But Barclays has told us the loan 
is being reported as if it were  an ordinary personal loan  not as a resolve  loan. This means 
any third party looking at Mrs Ls credit  file wont know from it that its anything  other  than an 
ordinary loan.
Its worth  noting that the interest  free resolve loan was used to replace an existing interest 
bearing loan. So if the resolve loan hadnt  been  taken Mrs Ls interest bearing loan would 
still be in place and that would be reported to her credit file. So, either way, Mrs L wouldve 
had a loan showing  on her credit file.
And as its money  Mrs L owes  I think its understandable other  lenders would want to know  
about it, and to take it into account when deciding whether  to offer her other  credit.
I appreciate Mrs L has shown us that shes been declined for another loan and that she 
believes shes been unable  to get a 0% balance transfer credit  card.  But Ive not seen 
anything to make me think thats  down to it being called a resolve loan. And there  could be a 
number of reasons  why thats the case.
Overall, I agree  that Mrs L hasnt been  treated fairly, because I think  Barclays  shouldve told 
her when things changed   when  they started  to report her loan to the credit reference 
agencies. And they confused matters when  they first looked  into her concerns about  this. But 
I think the £150 previously  recommended is fair compensation for this.
Mrs L asked me to listen to some  calls shed  had with Barclays. Ive listened to those but I 
dont consider them to be decisive in the matters I set out earlier.  They relate to Barclays 
handling of the complaint rather than the sale of the loan or reporting to the credit  reference 
agencies. And I thought  Barclays advisers tried to be helpful. So the compensation above is 
still fair.
Ref: DRN37686663my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint about Barclays  Bank UK PLC and require it to pay her a total of 
£150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3768666