K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the poor service he received from Swinton Group Ltd when arranging 
his home  insurance  policy. The policy was cancelled  less than two weeks  after he bought it 
and he doesnt  think hes been given enough  compensation  for his wasted time and effort.
 
background
In May 2018  Mr C called  Swinton as he wanted  to take out home insurance on a property 
hed just bought. Mr C explained  that the property  didnt  have  any bedrooms but he planned 
to have two or three bedrooms at the property once  hed got planning permission for this. He 
also said the property  was already insured by Swinton and asked  it to provide a quote  based 
on the details  it already  had. Mr C encountered a number of problems during his telephone 
calls with Swinton. It failed to call Mr C back when it said it would  and missed  opportunities 
to explain that it needed more details  about  the property he wanted to insure. Mr C therefore 
had to make  a number  of unnecessary calls.  However, he eventually  paid for a policy to 
cover the property. Less than two weeks later Swinton called Mr C to say it had reviewed his 
policy and it had to cancel it as none of its insurers would cover a property with no 
bedrooms. 
Mr C complained to Swinton and it accepted it had provided a poor service.  It apologised 
and increased  an initial offer of £75 to £100  to recognise the inconvenience it had caused. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. He noted that Mr C had not needed to make  
a claim before the policy had been cancelled and Swinton had refunded his premiums. He 
said Mr C had not lost out financially. The impact on Mr C had therefore been due to the 
poor customer service hed received and then having to find alternative  cover.  In light of that 
he thought £100 was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree and thought it was unacceptable that his policy  was cancelled without 
notice, leaving him without cover. The complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
I understand why Mr C is so unhappy about  what happened,  and I dont underestimate his 
strength of feeling.  I can see that he was open  and honest about the property he wanted to 
insure and I can understand why he thought it would be helpful if Swinton used the details it 
already held from a previous policy. 
Unfortunately, it was not as straightforward  as that. Although the property had already  been 
insured by Swinton, Mr C had only bought part of it and Swinton couldnt rely on the details it 
already held for the property because  of this. 
In addition, although Mr C believed the previous owner had given her consent  for Swinton to 
discuss the previous  policy with him, it doesnt  appear Swinton received that consent. This 
led to a series of confusing conversations. And meant Swinton wasnt  able to use the details 
from the previous  policy to find a policy for Mr C. That confusion  was compounded by the 
Ref: DRN38747162fact Swinton used the number of bedrooms  as a security question when Mr C called  in and 
refused to discuss the quote when his answer didnt match  what  it had recorded. Mr C was 
understandably frustrated by the poor service he experienced.
About a week or so after Mr C paid for the policy, Swinton reviewed Mr Cs policy  as it still 
recorded the property as having three bedrooms  when it didnt have any. Swinton checked 
with the insurer  and it confirmed that it wouldnt insure a property with no bedrooms. It also 
checked to see if any other insurers on its panel  would  insure  the property but they wouldnt.  
Swinton therefore  cancelled  the policy.
There is no dispute that Swinton provided  Mr C with a very poor service. Both parties  accept 
that. The initial calls Mr C had with Swinton were confusing and frustrating  and I can 
understand why he was so upset when, having  gone through  that, he was told soon 
afterwards his policy had been cancelled and he would need to arrange  another  policy.  
Swinton has acknowledged it provided a poor service.  It wrote to Mr C to explain where it 
had got it wrong  and apologised for the impact on him. It also agreed to pay Mr C £100  
compensation for the inconvenience it had caused.  Mr C believes that isnt enough and said 
the compensation should be closer to £1,000.  
However, as our investigator  pointed out, Mr C didnt suffer any financial loss due to the poor 
service Swinton provided. His premiums were refunded and he didnt have any need to 
make a claim in the period before his policy was cancelled.  So, the impact on Mr C was the 
inconvenience and frustration he suffered when dealing with Swinton in early May when 
arranging the policy and then again  later in May when  he found out the policy  had been 
cancelled. I dont underestimate how annoying  and frustrating that wouldve been but, 
bearing in mind the sort of payments  we normally award, I think  the £100 Swinton has paid 
Mr C is proportionate  to the distress  and inconvenience it caused  and provides fair and 
reasonable compensation. I dont think Swinton need to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Swinton Group 
Limited to do anything more. If it hasnt  already,  it should pay Mr C the £100  compensation 
offered to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019].
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3874716