K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained about six loans she took out through MYJAR Limited  trading  as 
MYJAR (MYJAR). She says the loans  were not affordable.  
Background
Miss C took six loans from MYJAR  between February 2015 and November 2015. A 
summary of Miss Cs borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsAmount Highest 
Repayment
1 14/02/2015 31/03/2015 3 £200 £249.60
2 09/04/2015 26/06/2015 3 £200 £103.54
3 10/07/2015 30/08/2015 3 £500 £268.47
4 30/08/2015 02/09/2015 3 £600 £294.92
5 10/10/2015 30/11/2015 6 £550 £160.76
6 30/11/2015 18/05/2015 6 £750 £216.55
The adjudicator concluded that the overall pattern of borrowing suggested  Miss C had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans  when  she took out loan 6. So she partially 
upheld her complaint.
MYJAR didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions.  So as both parties  are still not in 
agreement, the complaint has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to make  a decision. If 
Miss C accepts my findings it will be legally binding on both parties. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN37997392the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
MYJAR told us that, when  the loans were  taken, it asked Miss C for details of her income 
and expenditure  costs.  It says it also carried out credit checks.  Miss C was in the early 
stages of her relationship  with MYJAR and the amounts  that Miss C needed to repay were 
relatively modest compared  to her declared  income.  Looking at MYJARs lending  to Miss C, I 
think the checks for the first two loans went far enough and I dont think  MYJAR was wrong 
to lend Miss C those  loans. 
However from loan 3 onwards, I think that MYJAR  should have been looking to build a clear  
picture of Miss Cs finances before agreeing to lend.  Miss Cs third loan was for a larger  
amount and by this stage she was borrowing from it for over 5 months. I think it would have 
been proportionate for MYJAR to take its checks further. As Miss C hasnt  provided  
information about her actual  circumstances at the time such as bank  statements,  I cant say 
that a detailed check  by MYJAR would have shown that she couldnt  afford  the loans and 
that it lent loans 3 to 5 irresponsibly.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Miss C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN37997393Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Cs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
the time she asked for loan 6. I say this because:
A pattern had emerged where Miss C was borrowing  shortly  after she repaid her 
previous loan. I think that when she took out loan 6, MYJAR  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  regarded  that pattern as established.
So MYJAR ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss C was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Miss Cs indebtedness had increased unsustainably.
Miss C wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. It had 
increased from loan 1. In addition, Loan  6 was taken out more than 9 months after 
loan 1 and the amount borrowed had increased to over three times the initial amount 
she borrowed. 
Miss C had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
I think that Miss C lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing when it agreed 
to loan 6 because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing  
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
The sheer number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Cs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 6 and MYJAR should put things right as set out 
below.
Putting things right
MYJAR  shouldnt  have  given  Miss  C loan 6.
refund  all interest and charges Miss C paid on loan 6,
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*,
Any information recorded about  loan 6 is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 should 
be removed from Miss Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one
Ref: DRN37997394My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Miss Cs complaint. I require MYJAR Limited 
trading as MYJAR to put things right for Miss C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799739