K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is detailed and covers a number of issues. But, materially,  it concerns the 
recommendation of the Odey Total Return fund (OTR) to him by Odey Wealth  Management  
(UK) Limited (Odey). He was first advised  to invest some of his pension in that fund in 2014.  
But I understand Mr Cs main concern is that he was advised to invest  the majority of his 
pension in that fund in 2016. He says he was not given sufficient information about  this fund, 
especially the positions within it being taken  at the start of 2016,  the recommendation was 
not suitable at the time bearing in mind  his objectives and risk tolerance and he was not 
given alterative options in 2016  which  would  have better suited his position. That was 
particularly in respect of his intention to retire in 2017  and start taking  an income from his 
pension by way of drawdown.  
  
background
in 2012 Mr C met with Odey with a view to it managing  his investments, which  included  
some of his pensions. This resulted in a switch of some  of Mr Cs existing  pensions  to a new 
plan so the investments within that plan could be managed by Odey.
Odey originally recommended two collective investment funds,  the Odey Opus and Portfolio  
funds. In 2014 it then recommended Mr C move some of the money to the OTR. In 2016  a 
decision was then taken  to move all the pension  money to the OTR.
Mr C later complained to Odey  about the recommendation to invest in the OTR,  particularly 
to invest all the money in that fund in 2016.    
Odey did not uphold the complaint.  It said it had recommended that Mr C invest in suitable  
funds that matched his tolerance  of risk. It also said that it had adequately explained the 
operation of the investment funds  and the long  or short positions that might be taken.  It 
said that Mr Cs objectives, particularly his intended retirement date, had been taken into 
account when  the advice  was given. The performance of the investment had been positive 
and provided a return as intended. It also provided some protection  in falling markets.  
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator.  She did 
not believe the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr Cs risk tolerance had been  
assessed as medium/high and also noted  as high in the client  agreement.  She thought the 
investment funds recommended did not present more risk than it was indicated  he was 
willing to accept. She did not believe  that any guarantees had been given about the 
performance that would  be obtained from the funds. She also thought the investment 
recommendation were  suited to Mr Cs investment  horizon  - bearing in mind that he wanted  
to remain invested  to maintain the purchasing power  of his money. She didnt think  that 
Odey was incorrect  not to recommend a switch to cash   given Mr Cs objectives.  
Furthermore she thought  that Mr C had been  notified that the OTR fund could take short 
positions and this was discussed with Mr C. It was unfortunate that Mr Cs investments fell in 
value  but that was possible when making risk-based investments.
Mr C did not accept the investigators  assessment.  In summary he:
Said the investigator had not considered if any FCA/COBS rules or regulations were 
breached by Odey. Mr C referred to rules  that he believed should  be considered. 
Ref: DRN31474082Said the central aspect of his claim  were the actions or inaction of Odey  in the latter 
part of 2015 and early 2016.   
Referred to what Mr C believed were  indisputed key facts,  including that Odey did not 
review his risk level and objectives as he neared  retirement,  that he had very little 
knowledge of hedge  funds, that Odey did not make reference to, or explain,  
shorting, that the OTR  was very high risk, that he made it clear to Odey in late 
2015/early 2016 that he was very concerned  about  preservation of capital, that it did 
not inform him he could  transfer  to cash and that it did not explain the risk of the OTR 
properly. 
Said that Odey knew of his intention to retire in 2017 and that his pension  drawdown 
would be his main  source of income, that he was concerned about capital 
preservation and that he shared Odeys view that a market  correction was likely.
Confirmed he had not made  a complaint about  the performance of the OTR  between  
April 2014 and January 2016.  He mentioned 2014 to make  clear the lack of 
explanation from Odey about shorting or hedge funds of which he had no experience.  
Said he was specifically advised in January 2016  to place all his money in the OTR. 
He asked that consideration be given to what  assessments and advice was given at 
this point, and whether  Odey acted correctly  in terms of record keeping,  risks it took 
in management  of the fund in question and Odeys selected  use of evidence.   
Queried the actual  level of risk taken by the OTR  in the period January to April 2016 
Queried what records Odey should have retained so that it could evidence  it had 
explained the risks of a course of action to an individual who didnt have any relevant 
experience.
Questioned whether  where Odey  has discretion as to an asset class, whether it can 
take any action  regardless of the risk. 
Said the high  risk option was only ticked on the client agreement because there 
wasnt a medium/high risk option.  It was agreed in 2012  that he should be treated as 
medium/high risk. His claim should  be assessed  on the basis that he was a 
medium/high risk investor. 
Said whatever  its general risk designation, a very high risk approach was taken with 
the OTR  and this is reflected  in an Odey internal call note. This was outside of the 
agreed medium/high  risk level and so was a breach of mandate.
Said what may have  been suitable for him in 2012 and 2014 was not necessarily 
suitable as he neared retirement and his situation should  have been reviewed  
which Odey acknowledged at the time.  No such  review was carried out in 2015 or 
2016. Odey should have taken into account his need for wealth preservation and 
given him different  options in 2016. An obvious consideration given Odeys and his 
worry about a market correction, would have  been to lock in gains by switching to 
cash. If he suffered  significant loses in 2016  he would have had to take a high level 
of risk thereafter to make back the loss.
Ref: DRN31474083Said that he didnt  have to be placed in a medium to high risk fund once he retired  
and he had no target figure in mind at the date of retirement. And that it was 
reasonably expected  he would  take less risk following his retirement. 
Said Odey should have pointed out the pros and cons  of being out of the market. If 
Odey had informed him it was taking bets on a fall in the market which could cause a 
significant reduction in his capital, he would have been happy to take the risk of being 
out of the market.
Said the documentation/information he was given  did not outline sufficiently the risk 
or operation of the OTR. 
Said that the discretion exercised under his agreement with Odey  should  be viewed 
in the context of his situation and objectives to assess whether it was managed 
suitably in this respect.  Odey in 2016  invested outside of the kind of asset classes  
originally agreed  in 2012.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ombudsman service  is required to resolve  the complaints it receives quickly  and with 
minimum formality,  and my overriding requirement  to determine the complaint on the basis  
of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So whilst I have 
considered Mr Cs submissions in full, I may not address every point that he has made but 
consider what I believe  is material to the outcome of the complaint.  I would also like to note 
that the ombudsman service  is not the industry  regulator, that is the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I do not decide  how generally a regulated firm should operate  its business.  I 
consider individual complaints to decide  whether  the business has acted incorrectly  in some 
way that has led to the financial  loss or disadvantage for the complainant.  
I have noted the Key Investor Information for the OTR. This set out the fund had been 
launched in 2014 and, in terms  of risk, it had a grading of 6 on a scale  from 1 to 7. 
The OTR could take long or short positions.  In other words it could take a position (short)  
where it was thought  that a market  sector or share would  likely fall in value  and make a 
positive returns if that transpired. It could also take at the same time a long position  where  it 
thought the market or share could rise. So it could make a positive return  in generally rising 
or falling markets as opposed to a fund which  would only buy shares  or assets  and make  
profit or return if they increased in value. Conversely the OTR could suffer  a negative return  
in a rising market  which is what I understand occurred in 2016. 
 
Mr C originally met with Odey in 2012  and a Confidential  Client Profile  was completed. This 
recorded that Mr C held £1,150,000 in pensions (transfer  value). He held some  other  liquid 
assets of about  £250,000 and an investment property portfolio worth about  £950,000.   
I have also seen an Odey Wealth Management report  dated  July 2012. This set out Mr Cs 
objectives and Odeys recommendations.
It set out its Discretionary approach to investment  management:
Ref: DRN31474084Discretionary portfolio  management is just what it sounds like; your manager,  using their 
discretion, to make the day-to-day investment decisions to provide you with long-term 
strategic direction  and current asset allocation in order to meet  your investment  objectives 
within your assessed  risk parameters. You should understand that these decisions are made 
without reference  to you, although we endeavour to keep  our clients  as fully informed as 
they would  wish to be. The report details:
 Our understanding of your current circumstances  and future intentions.
 Your long-term  portfolio  objectives and risk tolerances.
 The strategy we have recommended to meet these objectives,  and why we have selected 
this for you.
 A summary  of the tactical positions  we are currently employing and the asset allocation  
ranges we may adopt in the future.
 An explanation  of the investment process your manager will apply to your portfolio.
It was discussed  that Mr C had several  personal pensions that were to be placed under  
Odeys management. The primary objective was capital growth and he had an investment 
horizon of over 10 years. 
An Odey  Active  Equity Strategy was recommended which was described as investing in 
global equities for the majority of the investment cycle. The aim was to maximise capital 
growth prospects but it was likely to be extremely volatile on occasion.  
The makeup  of the Odey Active Equity Strategy was said to be 50% in the Odey Portfolio 
fund and 50% in the Odey Opus fund. The asset allocation  did show  that an investment of 
up to 35% could be made in hedge funds. 
An illustrative portfolio  breakdown showed that the Odey Portfolio fund would invest  mostly 
in equites but could  invest around 10% in Hedge  funds. The Odey Opus  fund was almost 
entirely equity based. 
An Odey Pension Report was prepared for Mr C in August 2012.  This set out:
You are keen to appoint an investment adviser to manage your pension assets on a 
discretionary basis, but this cannot be achieved through your existing policies.  We therefore  
recommend your existing  pension assets  with (pension providers) are transferred to a SIPP  
administered by (SIPP  provider) to benefit  from, in our opinion,  a superior level of service 
and low administration fees. Following the transfers,  it will be possible to appoint  Odey  
Wealth to manage your assets.
Mr C completed  a Risk and Objectives Questionnaire at the time. 
This set out that he had experience of investing  in equities but did not have experience of 
investing in any other  types of investment asset. It was noted however that he was 
comfortable with investing  in Bonds, Hedge  Funds, Derivatives, Property, Private Equity, 
Commodities and Structured Notes.
It was indicated that Mr C didnt intend  to take income for the next 4 years  and the 
investment time horizon  was ten years or more. 
Ref: DRN31474085In terms of investment  return  or volatility it was recorded that Mr C would be comfortable  with 
the highest noted example of negative returns  which indicated a loss of up to a maximum 
of 25% could be tolerated.
It was also indicated that Mr C would expect at least a 20% increase in his returns in a 
market increasing by 20% in that year and would expect at least a 15% decrease in value if 
the market fell by 20% in one year. 
On a Client Agreement completed  at the time, it was indicated  that Mr Cs attitude to 
investment risk was High, noting that there were three gradings of Low, Medium and 
High. It was also recorded  that the investment horizon was 10 years  plus.  
A Terms of Business document also set out that it would manage Mr Cs funds on a 
discretionary basis where it would  decide  on the appropriate asset allocation,  taking into 
account Mr Cs attitude to risk. A variety of risk factors were set out and the various  different 
asset classes it could  select. One of which was Hedge funds  which could take short  
positions. 
Odey has records of its contact with Mr C over time. I have considered these carefully and 
will set out some of the correspondence and records of meetings.
On 9 July 2012 there is a record of a meeting  between Odey and Mr C:
Covered WM report, their circumstances, current positions and investment objectives. Went  
over our investment principles and our recommended mandate. Custody, fees and current 
positions. Explained that we categorised him as High according to our assessment of his risk 
profile and highest  likely equity exposure. Mr C was comfortable with all this. Gave  our 
macro outlook  and went over how we would  move him from A to B. Confirmed that we would 
transfer ISAs and write to all pension companies.  Set up a taxable account that he would  
transfer in 3.5k each  month.
There is an email from Odey to Mr C dated  5 September 2012:
Your projected income
The overall split of the properties and their income is 70:30 in your favour. Therefore, at age 
63 you estimate property income  will amount to £28k per annum gross.
In addition, you have  a guaranteed income  available from your NPI pension of at least 
£17,646 at age 60 and £24,722 at age 65. From this, it could be assumed your income at 
age 63 may be £21k per annum gross.
Your Scottish Widows  policy benefits from a guaranteed annuity rate of 9.8%, which  is only 
available at age 60. Based on a current value of circa £95k, the total gross income will be in 
the region of £10k per annum gross.
You have  an additional  £800k of money purchase  funds that are being  transferred to Odey 
for management. If over the next 4 years we achieve a net investment return  of 6% per 
annum compound (this is not guaranteed),  the value will increase to £1m.  From this you will 
be able to take a lump  sum £250k;  i.e. 25%, and draw the residual fund at whatever rate you 
wish through Flexible Drawdown.
Ref: DRN31474086Your other taxable income (as described  above) will amount to £59k gross and you will 
probably want to restrict your total income to just below  £100k in order  to benefit from a full 
personal allowance.  You should be aware that your personal allowance  is reduced by £1 for 
every £2 of income above £100k.  This is effectively an income tax rate of 60%, which  should 
be avoided if possible.
Childrens education
You are currently funding CTFs for your children at the maximum rate and estimate these 
will be valued at £36k  each by the time your children  are 18. Your thoughts  are that this can 
be used to pay for all university  tuition  fees. However, you believe you will need to find a 
further £200k to cover  accommodation and living expenses for both children.
Assuming your Odey managed pension assets  increase in value to £1m by age 63 you will 
have access to a tax-free  pension  commencement  lump sum of £250k.  Of this, £70k will be 
used to repay the mortgage on (property), with the remaining £180k being  available  to cover  
university costs. Of course,  this is only an outline  plan and doesnt take account of the fact 
that the university fees wont be paid until 6 years after you have retired. Nevertheless, it 
does demonstrate that your current investments are sufficient to cover these future 
expenses.
In April 2014 a decision was taken, after discussion with Mr C to sell a third of Mr Cs 
holdings in the Odey Portfolio and Odey Opus  funds and invest that in the OTR.  On 15 April 
2014 there is a meeting note:
We discussed a couple of the larger positions  in the portfolios (Sports Direct  and Ocado) 
and explained  our thoughts behind these. Mr C has heard that Sports Direct may be under  
pressure from some of the larger brands such as Adidas and Nike as there is a feeling  being 
associated with them is harming their own image. RNR said we had not heard anything  
about this.
Mr C also mentioned another development in battery technology that will allow  devices to be 
charged far more quickly than they currently are  a mobile phone  may be charged  in 30 
seconds. In addition to this, Mr C is aware of the individual that set up and sold Traffic 
Master and is now developing  charging stations for electric cars.  Do we want to get 
involved? RNR said we would happily  pass details  on if he sent them in to us.
We went on to discuss the merits of OTR and RNR went in to a great deal of details about 
the composition of the fund and how it will operate. Mr C agreed that he would like to invest 
a third of his total assets in OTR  and that the cash should be raised  equally from Portfolio 
and Opus. Mr C mentioned that he will be retiring in two years (we know  this already) and 
RNR suggested he may wish to reduce his investment risk further at this time.
Mr C signed the OTR switch instruction and seemed quite happy with everything.
Mr C signed an instruction to invest 33% or his pension fund in OTR in April 2014. This 
investment instruction document  set out:
When you became a client of Odey Wealth Management (UK) Ltd, the firms approach was 
to build portfolios  through a combination  of a single multi-asset fund (Odey  Portfolio Fund) 
and a long-only fund (Odey Opus/Odey Allegra International). These funds  have performed 
well over recent years as the stock market has recovered strongly from the 2008 collapse.
Ref: DRN31474087We think the time is right to broaden the offering, in particular to provide the firm's private 
clients access to Odey's  complete range that includes its well regarded  long/short funds. We 
are in the process of launching  the Odey Total Return strategy that will enjoy the following 
benefits;
* In addition to Odeys range of long-only  funds, Odey Total Return  will include meaningful
exposure to Odey  long/short funds.
 The strategy will enjoy  the diversification  benefits  of being managed across the entire Odey  
UCITS fund range numbering eighteen funds. The Odey Total Return strategy  is to be held 
within a new fund, the Odey Total Return Fund, in which holdings can be changed cost
effectively and without  triggering  CGT.
More generally, the strategys objectives  and approach is summarized below;
The strategys investment  objective  is long-term  capital growth. More specifically, by being 
active, the strategy aims  to achieve Positive returns in all market conditions over a 
rolling 12 month timeframe, although there is no guarantee this will be achieved.
Odey long/short funds have greater investment flexibility  than conventional  funds, in terms of
the range  of asset classes they can hold, which includes bonds and currencies as well as 
equities. They are also able to make use of leverage  and to hold short positions - where 
securities are sold without the position  being  owned on the expectation of purchase  at a 
lower price.  Their inclusion may help to protect capital when markets are weakening and 
provide individual profit opportunities.
The Odey Total Return strategy is invested  in a range of Odey  funds, each of which  has an 
active approach with judgement and research a vital ingredient.  The overall positioning of 
the strategy is not determined  by a single committee but is the product of active  
underlying managers who are best placed to identify  opportunity.
Notwithstanding the above, the Odey  Wealth investment Review Committee  (IRC) retains 
overall responsibility for the individual allocations to Odey funds and the investment 
positioning of the strategy. The overall positioning will be actively monitored and if 
necessary, changes made to the underlying constituents.
Odeys approach is not to restrict managers  to one asset class,  but to allow  diversification  
over a broad array  of asset  classes.  Therefore, the Odey Total Return strategy  benefits  from 
being invested in a diverse range of asset classes that may perform well at different  stages  
of the economic cycle.
The active  approach allows  managers  the opportunity to mitigate  downside volatility  or to 
benefit from rising markets. As a result, underlying exposures to any particular
asset class  are likely to vary over time.
The portfolio  will invest in a range  of global assets and, as you are a Sterling investor, we 
are likely to make use of certain currency hedging instruments, should we feel this will be to 
your benefit.
And:
RECOMMENDATION
Ref: DRN31474088At the outset of your relationship with Odey Wealth Management (UK) Ltd, you were 
assessed in terms  of your risk profile.
In your case you were assessed  as having a Medium/High risk profile. For clients with a
Medium/High risk profile up to a 100% of Odey Total Return  is consistent  with your risk 
profile and is suitable.
As per our discussion, we have agreed  to switch 33% of your portfolio into the Odey Total  
Return fund.
There followed a list of about 10 collective funds that might be included  within  the OTR  
listing several as taking long and short  positions.
Mr C signed the instruction  on 14 April 2014.
On 21 July 2014 Mr C sent the following email to Odey:
I am writing because I am becoming a bit concerned  at what seems  a gradual but 
nonetheless noticeable decline in the performance  of my funds  over the last six months or 
so. From  checking my on-line valuations on a regular basis,  I have noticed that the Pension  
Fund has dropped  from a figure in excess  of around  £1,170,000 to the £ 1,096,000 it is 
today. The comparable figure in the ISA funds is from around £ 220,000 to £ 207,000.
I appreciate that these  falls have to be looked  at against the preceding significant gains, but I 
was nonetheless wondering if I should  be doing anything  different with my portfolio beyond 
that which we discussed and agreed on in April.
There is an email response of 23 July 2014:
Thank you for your email and apologies  for being slow in getting back  to you.
Performance has been poor as we discussed when  we met and I appreciate your concern as 
to the gradual  drop off in value of your portfolio. While disappointing, this is not unusual 
given the way we run money and we do go through these periods from time to time, 
especially at times like now when  the stocks that we like have  temporarily (we expect!) been 
de-rated by the market  in favour  of stocks that we don't like. This can be particularly difficult 
for clients when the broader indices are performing well but, as you know, we are not trying 
to be index trackers.
Reviewing your current holdings:-
When we met in April,  we switched some of the portfolio into the Total  Return Fund to 
provide some diversification  to the portfolio by giving exposure to the long/short  strategies 
which should perform  when markets turn down. This strategy has not been successful so far 
but it is early days. The Portfolio Fund  is managed with a balanced mandate, has the ability  
to hold high cash  balances and therefore take a defensive or aggressive posture depending  
on how the manager views the outlook.
OPUS is probably the most risky fund you hold because of its high weighting  to long 
equities, up to 100% but currently 89%. Ironically it has performed better year to date than 
the other two funds  for this very reason. However it has underperformed the broader indices 
because of our exposure to US equities (currently c38%) where we have left the currency  
Ref: DRN31474089unhedged as sterling looks expensive. This would be the obvious place to look to reduce 
risk.
I think that the overall risk rating of the portfolio still matches your medium  high profile. 
However I know that you are retiring in 2016 and it would certainly  be essential to review risk 
profile etc at that point but given  your current concerns, it may be more  appropriate  to do so 
now. Let me know what you think on this point.
On 4 September 2014 there is a meeting note:
Mr C mentioned he may be retiring  a year earlier than he anticipated (potentially 2015)  and 
this prompted  a discussion about  attitude  to investment risk. Mr C confirmed he was still 
Medium/High and would  not wish to change this as he is only likely to draw an income  of 5% 
from the pension  portfolio  and wishes to maintain the real purchasing power  of this portfolio. 
We agreed that he understands the risks he is taking and is unlikely to change the shape of 
his portfolio.
RNR discussed the underlying investments held in each fund in some detail and focused  on 
the Japanese holdings  Mr C seemed satisfied with this.
There is a note of a telephone conversation  of 3 February 2015:
Had a long chat with Mr C about  markets and ongoing suitability of Port and Opus. Got to a 
point where we agreed it might be sensible to switch to 25% Port and Opus and 50% in 
OTR. Mr C is going to think about this and get back to me.
There is also a record of an email  from Odey to Mr C dated 3 February 2015:
Very good to speak  to you earlier today and as promised I am writing  to cover the issues  we 
discussed. Odey Total Return  Strategy  (OTR).  We discussed our current  thoughts on the 
markets and in particular Crispin's concerns about  the markets  falling  as a result  of the tools 
that would  usually be employed  to prevent a downturn having  already been used (please 
see the attached factsheet). Your investments in Opus and Portfolio  fund are long-only and 
are exposed to such a collapse and we believe it would be prudent  to switch more assets to 
the Odey Total Return Strategy, which has the ability to go short' and make  money  in a 
falling market. We discussed this and I suggested  the following change  may be sensible:
There followed a suggestion  to change the allocation  so that more money was allocated  to 
the OTR.
It was then set out:
The following should be noted:
1.The level of investment  risk within OTR is similar  to the combined level of risk in a 50:50  
split between Opus and Portfolio fund.  Indeed,  OTR  is now our flagship  offering for new 
clients with the same appetite for risk and investment objectives as you.
2.OTR has a higher  fee than Opus  and Portfolio fund. The fee is around  1.25%, plus 
performance fees, compared to 1.00% for Opus  and Portfolio funds.
3.By making the switch you will incur no tax charges. 
 
Ref: DRN314740810Odey noted in March  2015 that Mr C intended to retire, by April 2017. maybe 6 months  
earlier.
On 26 August 2015 it is recorded:
Mr C called LB. LB discussed  the performance  of the three  funds and confirmed Port was 
down 9% since mid-April, Opus  down 13% and OTR flat. Mr C wasnt fazed by this as he 
understands markets  have fallen by a similar  amount. We discussed the cash  holdings  
(Opus  28%, Port  35%) and Mr C was satisfied  that he had 20% of his overall portfolio 
held in cash, with 33% held in a long/short strategy. I mentioned the option  of rebalancing 
but Mr C is happy  to leave things as they are for now. I said we would keep an eye on things 
and only make a change if we saw markets  fall considerably more. Mr C is happy with all of 
this.
In the latter  half of 2015 there are records that indicate Mr C generally voiced concerns 
about the investment markets. 
There is a record on 16 October 2015:
Spoke to Mr C again  and discussed  current market  outlook. Mr C is quite pessimistic and is 
concerned about  falling markets. No changes to be made  at present - just keep an eye on 
things.
I have not seen any further exchanges  until 16 January 2016, when there  is the following 
record:
As you know, we have  been bearish about markets for the last 18 months and believe this 
year may see high volatility and falling  indices across the globe. With this in mind  we believe 
switching a larger proportion of your portfolio to the Odey Total  Return strategy is a sensible 
thing to do.
Whilst the Odey Portfolio  fund can allocate assets defensively and attempt to retain value, it 
cannot actively invest on a short basis to make  money in a falling market. As you can see 
from the above, OTR is currently  more  than 50% short, resulting in a net equity exposure of 
just 18%.  Unlike  Odey Portfolio fund, Odey Opus  fund is a 100% long only equity fund that is 
permitted to hold up to 50% in cash  this is as defensive as the fund can be. If markets  do 
play out as we believe, and of course we could be wrong, having a low net equity exposure 
ought to help preserve capital.
It is important  to note that we deem  OTR  to be a medium  high / high risk investment, which 
is similar to the 50:50 Odey Portfolio/Odey  Opus split you held originally. Therefore, by 
switching more of your portfolio to OTR,  you would not be changing the level of
investment risk you are exposed to. Indeed, for new clients with the same  investment 
objective and attitude to risk as yourself,  our recommendation is that they have a 100% 
allocation to OTR. Finally, its worth  reminding  you that OTR  is marginally more expensive  
than the Odey  Portfolio  fund with the annual management change  being circa 1.25% 
compared to 1.00%.  In addition, the underlying  funds of OTR have performance fees
applying to them.
Mr C then agreed that all his pension funds should  be transferred to the OTR. Before that 
point his pension  was split roughly equally across the OTR,  Odey Portfolio and Odey Opus  
funds. 
Ref: DRN314740811On 28 April 2016 there is a note of correspondence:
Following our conversation, I understand your concerns are as follows:
Whilst you believe Crispin's analysis is correct,  you are aware we are unable  to predict 
when things might change.
If markets continue to rally for another three months, your portfolio may lose another  10% in 
value.
We talked about  selling  investments and holding cash pro tem, but this is not something  you 
wish to consider.
With this in mind we discussed  switching your portfolio out of Odey Total  Return and back  
into Odey Portfolio  and Odey Opus.  You are aware these funds are long-only  and are 
unlikely to make significant investment returns should markets fall. Conversely,  if markets 
continue to rally you are likely to have more opportunity to participate  in any upside.  
Attached to this email are dashboards' for each of these funds, which show  the recent 
performance, current allocation and top holdings. From an investment risk perspective,  an 
equal split between Odey Portfolio and Odey  Opus is consistent with our understanding of 
your investment objectives  and attitude to investment risk.
When we spoke I suggested holding a small proportion of your overall portfolio in Odey  
Swan (dashboard attached), Crispin's hedge fund, might be a sensible thing to do as it 
would provide a hedge against the long-only strategies. However, you were  concerned  that 
given the volatile nature of the fund it may fall further, which  is not something you are 
comfortable with. In retrospect, I don't believe you should include this in your portfolio as we 
can offer no guarantee about how it will perform from here. As the funds are traded daily we 
can switch you very easily should  market conditions  turn to our way of thinking. I hope  this is 
of use. If you would like to make the changes, could you please email  confirmation to me?
On 28 April 2016 Mr C gave an instruction to transfer  all his money out of OTR and into 
Opus and Portfolio.
On 10 May 2016 it was noted:
Mr C called to ask a number of follow up questions to the emails  I sent to him last week.
He asked what had caused the large  fall in the values of OTR and I confirmed it was largely 
as a result  of the short positions losing value in a rising market. Mr C said this is the reason  
he asked to switch  back into Port/Opus as he is concerned a continued rally would produce 
further losses. Mr C went  on to ask what would need  to happen  to see the 13% fall 
recovered if he had chosen to stay invested in OTR.  I explained that based on the current  
positioning of the fund we would expect to make  money in a falling market before switching 
'long' and participating in any recovery. I also mentioned that if we were  convinced the rally 
was going to continue for some time, we would adapt our strategy and potentially go 'long'.  
Mr C asked how long we expect this to take and I told him we can't possibly  answer that. Mr 
C did ask this question  in light of the fact we know he intends  to retire next April.
Mr C once again mentioned the option  of switching back into OTR  once a sustained 
correction had been established and I confirmed this will be possible.  I did point out that we 
are unlikely to time this perfectly and that he is likely to miss out on some of the potential 
Ref: DRN314740812upside as markets fall. However, we see the fall as two potential opportunities to make 
money as we would  hopefully  be long equities  as the markets recovered.
Mr C also asked how Port and Opus  operate if the market rally continues. I explained  that 
they are long only funds  and as such should  make  some money in a rising market. I 
explained that Port does  have short exposure  though Odey Swan, but that neither fund can 
go short  itself. I don't recall if I explained  both funds are positioned  relatively defensively.
On 16 May 2016 there was an exchange  which set out how Odey viewed  Mr Cs risk 
attitude:
Risk Profile   I confirmed we treat Mr C as Medium/High and he asked for a copy  of the risk 
questionnaire he completed to be sent to him along  with our definitions of the various  risk 
categories. No problem.  Mr C stated  that risk depends on how long he has to retirement and 
suggested with one year to go to retirement  he should have less risk than a 20 year old. I 
disagreed and explained that we consider his time horizon to be until he dies,  not when he 
retires. Also,  we discussed drawing an income  from the portfolio and agreed  that he was 
unlikely to sell everything and hold cash as this would  lose value in real terms. I went  on to
explain that when  he starts to draw an income  from the portfolio he would probably  want  to 
hold an amount as cash to avoid having to sell into a falling market.  I suggested  at the same  
time as sending the old risk questionnaire, it might be sensible to complete another risk 
assessment. Mr C was happy  to do this.
How to Make Money Back  Mr C is concerned about how he is now going  to recover  the 
losses he has incurred. I went through the current allocation of the funds and explained that 
even if the markets raced away from here,  he wouldnt fully participate due to the defensive 
positioning of both funds. Of course,  Mr Cs biggest  concern is losing  more  money in the 
short positions, hence the recent  switch  out. I explained that we would not time the re-entry 
perfectly as we would  want to wait for signs of a sustained fall before switching. Understood.  
What made  the switch  in January the right thing to do then?  At the time, OTR had held up
very well in a falling market, being  flat compared  to the FTSE, which had lost circa 10%. 
Given our outlook we were of the opinion markets  would  continue to fall, but unfortunately 
that was not the case.
As mentioned previously,  when  markets  do eventually fall, we are unlikely to time the switch  
back to OTR  perfectly (assuming  this is still suitable) and are likely to miss some  of the 
potential upside.  However, we see any fall as a two-legged affair  with money to be made on 
the fall and then again on the subsequent recovery. I reiterated the fact that OTR is not only 
a defensive strategy and go more  than 100% long.
And:
Further to our conversation earlier today, please  find attached  a copy  of the Risk & 
Objective Questionnaire  you completed  when you became a client in 2012.  As agreed, I 
have also attached a copy of our current Risk Questionnaire for you to complete and
return to me.
At present, we treat you as having  a 'Medium/High' attitude to investment risk. Our 
definitions of investment  risk are as follows:
Medium
Ref: DRN314740813You understand the portfolio may be invested  in equities or other asset classes  over the 
period of your investment.  You are able to tolerate some  capital  loss and some volatility  of 
return. 
Medium / High
You understand the portfolio may be invested  in a higher level of equities over the period  of 
your investment. You are able to tolerate  a higher level of capital loss and a higher level of 
volatility of return.
In addition to the above,  I can confirm your Wealth Management Report  dated  July 2012 
defines the level of risk you are willing to be exposed to as:
The portfolio  strategy  we have recommended is designed to have the potential to meet  your 
investment objectives  stated above,  and operate within  the risk tolerances you have 
indicated you are comfortable with. We have interpreted your risk tolerance  as being:
 You are experienced and understand asset class risk.
 You are comfortable with the Investment Manager making asset allocation decisions to 
alter the risk profile of the portfolio. This may result in you being  more cautiously placed  at 
certain points than your overall risk profile would allow.
 You are comfortable with the portfolio being fully invested into equities  offering greater 
growth prospects  but with potentially with high fluctuations in the value of your investments.
 You are comfortable with taking a global approach to investing.
 You have other assets on which you can rely should the value of the portfolio fall 
significantly.
 You do not have a need  for a regular withdrawal  from the portfolio.
 You are comfortable taking future  withdrawals  from both income and capital.
On 20 May 2016 there is a record of contact  between  Mr C and Odey:
(Mr C) called to ask why his fund has suffered further losses.  I explained that since  we 
switched into the long only funds, markets have  sold off, hence the fall in value. OK. (Mr C) 
went on to say he's between a rock and a hard place at the moment. I suggested that if his 
objective is to prevent  any further losses he should  consider  switching to cash,  but if he's 
looking to get back the losses he will need  to stay invested. (Mr C) asked about the Yellen 
Chinese deal that comes to an end in June (?) and I said I'd have to get back to him about 
this. He'd like to know what event will trigger a fall in markets.
On 6 June 2016 there  is a record of contact  between Mr C and Odey:
Mr C called to say he is considering switching back to OTR. As he sees  it, the only way he 
will make back  the losses  is by being  in a long/short  fund that can benefit from a crash  in 
markets. He has asked  for details  of the performance of OTR, Port and Opus since he made  
the switch.
On 14 June 2016 a decision was taken,  after discussion with Mr C, to transfer  all his 
holdings to cash. 
On 20 June 2016 there is a record of a meeting between Mr C and Odey. It is recorded:
The purpose of the meeting was to agree a strategy  going forward  for (Mr C), in particular, 
how he can recover the losses  he has incurred.
Ref: DRN314740814Initially, we discussed  the EU Referendum and agreed holding cash  until the outcome was 
known would be a sensible  option. LB agreed to call (Mr C) on Wednesday in case  the 
outcome becomes obvious and reinvestment  should happen before Thursday. We also 
confirmed that in the event of no investment decision being made before the result  was 
known, Mr C would contact us before 11am  on Friday to confirm any investment instructions.
We went on to discuss the options on how to invest the funds  longer  term and Mr C 
suggested he has the following options:
1. Continue to hold cash. He was not keen  on this idea as he understands longer term this is 
not a sensible  option as he needs  to achieve at least 5% pac to draw  an income and 
maintain capital valued.
2. 50:50 Port/Opus. Mr C believes  this would allow him to continue to participate in any 
upside, albeit  with reduced upside as a result  of the cash weightings, whilst giving some  
protection to the downside, again, because of the high cash weighting.  We stressed  that in 
the event of a severe correction this strategy would still fall in value and would not be 100% 
protected.
Understood.
3. Reinvest in OTR. Mr C is nervous about  this as he does not want to lose any more  capital  
and sees OTR as a bet against a falling  market only. His concern is that the longer markets 
hold up, the more he will lose.
Mr C will need  to draw circa £50k per annum from his SIPP from 1 April 2017.  We offered a 
4th solution that is retaining £100k of cash to leave the balance  of the funds  free to invest 
with no need to call on the capital for a two year period. Mr C was not keen on this idea as it 
means crystallising the losses  he has already  incurred. Besides, Mr C has £150k of other  
assets he can draw on instead to cover the income requirements.
During the conversation we asked Mr C to look at the risk profile  again,  but he wasnt  keen 
to do so as he believes  we know all we need to be able to make a recommendation. When 
writing to Mr C we will ask him again  to complete  the questionnaire.
I note that on 24 June 2016 there was the following exchange between  Odey and Mr C.
Odey said:
Further to our recent conversations  and meetings,  I am writing  to you with options on how to 
invest your portfolio in the period following the immediate reaction to the EU Referendum  
result. For the avoidance of doubt,  the options  are based on our understanding of your 
investment objectives  and attitude  to investment risk. These  are summarised  as follows:
Following the fall in the value of your portfolio this year, you are looking for capital  growth to 
restore the portfolio  to its value at the beginning of the year.
You do not wish to suffer any further capital losses and remain concerned that investing  in 
short strategies could  result in this. From  April 2017  you will potentially need  to draw an 
income from your SIPP of circa £50,000 per annum  (gross).
You hold sufficient assets outside  of Odey  to be able to cover your income requirement 
from 2017 for two to three  years.
Ref: DRN314740815You do not wish to continue to hold cash in your Odey portfolio as this will crystallise  the 
losses incurred this year.
Based on amongst other things the risk questionnaire you completed in June 2012, we have 
assessed your attitude to investment risk Medium/High.
You agree  with our current negative  economic  and market  outlook.
In no particular order, I have set out below  a number of potential options (with  the exception  
of option 1, all suit our understanding  of your attitude to investment risk):
1.Remain in Cash
Whilst this option  would  ensure you incur no further  losses, it would also provide no 
investment return and no opportunity to recover the losses  already accrued. However, it 
would be possible to deploy the cash at a time when  markets  have  become oversold  and 
potentially benefits  from a bounce. Of course, this would rely on all parties timing the 
market correctly, which Im fairly  certain we will not be able to achieve.
2.100% Odey Total Return (OTR)
Based on the current allocation  of the strategy, the return to a 100% holding  of OTR should 
provide protection in a falling market, but it would  continue  to expose you to the risk of 
capital loss should markets continue to rise. This, of course, is something you
are keen to avoid. Over the longer term, the allocation  of the strategy  will change  and this 
strategy may be more  attractive when we find ourselves in what  we believe to be a bull 
market.
3.50:50 Odey  Opus/Odey Portfolio
As you are aware, both Odey  Opus and Odey  Portfolio  are currently  positioned relatively 
conservatively, with the equity exposures  being  at or near all-time lows.  By reinvesting in this 
way, you would be able to enjoy some of the returns of an increasing  market,  but limit any 
downside. Furthermore, there  is the potential for switching out of this strategy into a 
long/short one once an established  market  decline has been  noted. Obviously, there  is no 
guarantee any such switch will be timed perfectly  and the severity  of any downturn could be 
such that you dont  benefit from it all as a result  of not being able to react  quickly enough.
4.50:50 Odey  Portfolio/Odey Total Return
Investing in this way has the potential to provide investment returns  in a rising market  
(through long equity holdings)  along  with protection (and the ability  to make investment 
returns) against a falling  market through cash,  Treasuries and short equity holdings.  
Depending on the overall allocation at any one time,  the long and short positions may well 
hedge each other out, meaning the portfolio  may not move an awful  lot. However, as market  
conditions develop, we would see the allocation of each strategy change to try to benefit 
from the prevailing conditions.
An alternative to this approach would be to revert to the one-third  Odey  Opus, Odey Portfolio 
and Odey Total Return portfolio you held previously. The issues are almost identical to those  
identified above,  except Odey  Opus is exposed circa 60% to global equities.
Given your main objectives are to prevent further capital losses whilst  trying to recoup the 
losses from earlier this year, I believe the final option is the most suitable  because:
a. An overall  positive return ought  to be achievable regardless of how markets perform. The 
long-only strategies  will only work  if markets  are rising.
Ref: DRN314740816b. Relying on a switch from long-only to long/short  introduces  the risk of timing, which  we 
will almost  certainly  fail to get correct.  
c. Both Odey Portfolio  and Odey Total Return have flexible investment mandates and the 
managers are able to alter the asset  allocation to take advantage of changes in economic  
and market conditions.
I have attached to this email dashboards for each of the funds.
Of course,  the above options are suggestions of how the portfolio could be structured in the 
near future and will need to continue to be reviewed on an ongoing basis  to ensure the 
portfolio remains suitable.  To assist us with this, and to be certain your attitude  to investment 
risk has not changed,  it would be very helpful  if you could complete and return  the attached 
Risk Profile questionnaire to me.
Mr C replied and said:
Further to your email of yesterday and our discussion this morning, I would like to follow  
your recommendation that I place my portfolio  50/ 50 in OTR and Portfolio.
When Mr C first met with Odey in 2012 it was set out that his overall objective was capital 
growth for his pension  funds. It is documented at the time that he was prepared  to take a 
medium to high risk approach in terms of investment risk. I dont believe he was defined as a 
high risk investor  the reference to being  high risk in the Client Agreement was likely 
chosen because  the document didnt allow the indication of a medium to high risk approach.  
It was also set out, and set out over time, that Mr C wished to retire in 2017  slightly less 
than five years away. 
Odey recommended investment in two collective investment funds which Odey  would 
manage on a discretionary basis. Because of that discretion the funds approach to 
investment could change over time  but generally speaking  they were  widely  diversified 
funds investing  in variety  of risk based  assets, with a high proportion being invested  in 
equities  something  that Mr C was more familiar with.  
Although positive returns were achieved from 2012 on the pension  investments, I think it is 
fair to say that Mr C was concerned  about  a market  correction at least  from 2013  when he 
was referring to other commentators that had misgivings of the nature that there would be a 
significant fall in the value  of investment markets. Given the commentary  by Odey (some of 
which I have referred  to), it held a similar view,  albeit not until some years  later.  
There is evidence of significant discussion between Odey and Mr C over time about the 
positioning of his investment portfolio. It was not that Odey simply made recommendations 
that Mr C should  change his investment split between funds and then carried that out  there 
was a significant amount of discussion around  that and why it was thought that might  be 
sensible. The change  in allocation to the OTR, which  occurred from 2014  should be viewed 
against the background of both Odey and Mr C being concerned  about  a fall in the market   
the OTR having the investment mandate to mitigate that, and in fact make  money in such  a 
market.
In 2014 there is evidence  of considerable discussions between  Mr C and Odey about 
whether to include the OTR in his pension  investment portfolio. I note Mr C disputes the 
content of some of the records but, in the documents explaining the nature of the OTR,  it is 
stated that short positions can be taken and returns made  in a falling market. Whether the 
fund actually made returns in such a market depended on what positions had been taken  
Ref: DRN314740817long or short. There is also evidence of a significant amount of discussion between  Mr C 
and Odey about the operation of the OTR   not just in 2014 but it 2016 when the decision 
was taken to invest  the majority of Mr Cs pension funds in the OTR. I have set out evidence  
of that.
Given that, on balance  I believe it more likely that Mr C could appreciate the operation of the 
OTR, that it could suffer losses in both falling and rising markets (and gains) and that its 
fortunes were largely based  on the positions being taken within that fund. And also 
appreciate why investment was being  made  in that fund in 2014 and 2016  considering  
both Odeys and Mr Cs views of the investment market.  I do note that Mr C was designated 
a retail client. Essentially, he was not classed as a professional or sophisticated investor 
and I believe that is correct. However  Mr C did show an appreciation of the behaviour of 
investment markets in general and was clearly  taking  an active  interest  in his portfolio. Mr C 
is not an investment  professional but my understanding is he is a professional  who has 
experience of financial services disputes/rules/regulations. My decision is not determined  by 
that experience  as I believe  the evidence is that Mr C appreciated the nature of what was 
being recommended,  but I believe this adds to the evidence that he could appreciate  the 
operation of the investments he was being recommended. That includes the operation  and 
risks of taking short positions.  
I note Mr Cs reference to COBS Rules as to requirements on a regulated  firm to, generally  
speaking, make suitable recommendations and explain the risks and nature of its 
recommendations to its client. And how it goes about documenting its recommendations and 
risk explanations. I will go on to discuss the suitability of Odeys recommendations in terms 
of the OTR,  but the crucial issue here is not specifically  how Odey documents or records  its 
recommendations and explanations but whether the evidence is that it did enough to make  
its client aware of what was being recommended,  why and what risks were being  taken.  As, 
discussed I believe it more likely  did so. 
When considering  the suitability  of the OTR  recommendation, particularly that in 2016, Mr 
Cs future intentions need  to be taken into account. As set out, Odey was aware of Mr Cs 
intention to start drawing  pension benefits  in 2017. 
However, I dont think its right to view 2017 as a fixed  point in time at which all risk was to 
be taken off the table or all matters had to be settled. 2017 was only a point when the 
intention was for Mr C to start taking benefits.  There  wasnt a straight  line between the point 
in 2016 and 2017 when  any reduction  in value  of the pension in 2016 had to made up by 
2017. What was actually happening  was that the intention was for Mr C to remain invested to 
some extent in risk-based assets before  and after his notional  retirement  date in 2017.  It was 
not a situation where, say, an individual was to take an annuity  in 2017 and then any value  
at the specific point in time would be crucial  and any income  from that would be fixed  
indefinitely by the value in 2017. Mr C effectively had a much longer investment time horizon  
than 2017 for investment  stretching into his retirement. This is indicated by the answers to 
the 2012 risk questionnaire where  it was indicated that the investment horizon was 10 years 
or more. Mr C has said during this complaint  that he didnt have a set target  for a sum at 
retirement.
But that does  not mean  that Mr Cs intentions in 2017 are not relevant  starting  to take 
benefits is still a significant event and that requires a review of acceptable risk levels going 
forward, income levels and objectives. Many  would wish to take somewhat less risk from that 
point on  bearing in mind  that the drawdown  will need to provide a long term income and 
Ref: DRN314740818the drawdown fund value  will be affected  by the income being taken. What  was 
recommended should  be viewed in that context.
The evidence indicates that Odey  did suggest  reviewing Mr Cs risk tolerance in 2014   
when for a time it was thought that Mr Cs retirement  was sooner than 2017. However it was 
confirmed at that point that Mr Cs risk tolerance  was still medium/high and he didnt want  
that to change even considering that he might be taking income relatively  soon. An 
appreciation is shown of remaining invested  and taking risk in retirement  to maintain the 
purchasing power  of the pension.
In terms of that risk level  which I believe persisted  through  2016   the OTR  is not an 
unsuitable recommendation. I do not believe the evidence is that it necessarily presents 
higher risk than was acceptable. In my view it was managed appropriately to its mandate  of 
trying to generate  returns in rising or falling markets. The fact that it did bring about a 
significant fall in value in 2016 is not evidence  that it was of a higher level of risk than was 
acceptable to Mr C  it was only that the position being taken did not bear out. It may be that 
Mr C equates taking  short positions with a high level of risk but that is not necessarily the 
case. It can present  no more risk than investing in a risk based or volatile asset and hoping 
for it to rise in value. Short positions can mitigate risk, they dont necessarily increase it. It 
should be noted that this position was taken  and likely accepted  by Mr C was that the parties 
thought a market  fall was likely.  The OTR  did not operate  in the same  way as the funds 
originally chosen  in 2012 but I dont believe it presented higher risks than originally agreed or 
Mr C thought he was taking. As discussed  I believe Mr C likely understood the operation of 
the fund and accepted  the change to his investments in 2014  and 2016.  
What is being  put forward  is that Odeys actions in 2016 were flawed and this caused 
financial loss. That is clearly different than taking a justified investment decision  that in 
hindsight did not work  out as hoped for. Having considered that matter carefully I believe it is 
the case of the latter.  Odey  didnt guarantee that Mrs Cs pension would increase in value 
and it did set out that returns  could be volatile (which I believe the evidence  indicated Mr C 
was aware of). In March 2013  Mr C said:
Unless there were to be significant falls in the value of my Odey portfolio, or unless some 
unexpected event happens, I am set on retiring at age 63. The actual retirement date would 
be 31 March 2017, just over four years  from now.
So Mr C was aware that negative returns were possible.  
Odey had overseen  significant positive returns in the past.  In August 2013 it confirmed that:
Based on todays prices, the current value of your SIPP assets is £1,108,695, which is 30% 
up from the £852,290 originally invested.
A return that Mr C said was very pleasing.
What occurred in 2016 was not an absolute reduction in value  of the pension Mr C first 
invested in 2012 but a reduction in previous gains he had achieved on the recommendation 
of Odey. What was discussed after 2016 was Mr C trying to regain a high point in his 
pension valuation  this was not a target or certain  figure that had to be recouped  as such. 
A lack of hoped for performance  is not in itself evidence  that a fund was negligently 
managed or inherently unsuitable for the customer.  The management of an investment or 
Ref: DRN314740819the choice to make an investment in a given fund calls for making  decisions  about, for 
example, the future economic situation.  Making  a decision that turns  out to be wrong or less 
beneficial is not necessarily proof of negligence and the situation should not be viewed with 
hindsight.
I appreciate Mr Cs submission that he says he could and maybe should have transferred to 
cash earlier in 2016. But, bearing in mind  what I have  discussed about the long term 
investment horizon, I dont think that would  have been necessarily the right recommendation 
or the alterative option to not investing  in the OTR. A reaction to not investing in the OTR is 
not investing in cash. A variety of other options could have been taken and I recognise that it 
is plausible to suggest that somewhat less risk could be taken (certainly less than investing 
entirely in the OTR) bearing  in mind the intentions post 2017.  But the evidence is that 
maintaining the ability  to generate returns,  taking into account the prevailing view as to a fall 
in the market, was seen  as the favoured option.  In this context the recommendation to invest 
in the OTR  was not unreasonable or unsuitable.  In hindsight a switch to cash  would have 
been better but hindsight should  not be used in such assessments. 
In summary,  I believe Odey  made suitable  recommendations  taking into account Mr Cs 
objectives and position. It also provided information  and explanations sufficient to make Mr C 
aware of the operation of the investments being recommended and the risks. 
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3147408