K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  with the response  of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), following her 
chargeback claim.
background
Ms W decided to buy a new mobile  phone  from a retailer  that Ill refer to as C. She paid for 
this on her debit card.  After she returned home she decided to cancel the mobile phone.
However, the payment for the mobile phone was still debited from her account. When  she 
was unable to resolve  this issue  with C, Ms W contacted RBS and raised a chargeback.
RBS refunded the money to Ms Ws account,  whilst the chargeback was looked  into. C was 
able to provide  evidence  that the mobile phone had been  delivered and signed for at the 
correct address. Because of this, RBS wrote to Ms W, to explain that the cost of the mobile 
phone would  be taken  back from her account.
Unhappy with this Ms W complained to RBS. It explained that it had followed the relevant 
chargeback rules. And it had received sufficient evidence that the mobile phone had been  
delivered and signed for at the correct address. Therefore, it couldnt continue  with 
chargeback.
Ms W referred her complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked  into what had 
happened. She thought  RBS had treated Ms W fairly as it had taken the chargeback  as far 
as it could. She also suggested that Ms W pursue the issue  with C.
Ms W asked  for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking RBS to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
My role is to look at whether RBS has done  anything wrong in the way that it handled the 
chargeback.
Chargebacks are decided  based  on the relevant card scheme rules, not the merits of the 
dispute. So it isnt for me - or RBS  to decide whether the mobile  phone  was or wasnt  
received and for Ms W to have her money back.  RBSs responsibility is to raise the 
appropriate chargeback, and consider whether any defence provided complies with the 
relevant chargeback rules. And based on what Ive seen, it did.
RBS raised a chargeback under reason code 13.1: Merchandise/  Services  not received. But 
the response from C suggested  that the mobile phone had been received.  This meant  that 
the chargeback  wasnt successful  and the money was taken back  from Ms Ws account.
Where a merchant, in this case C, challenges  a chargeback, a bank doesnt have to carry 
out a detailed investigation  into what actually  happened  to decide who deserves the money.  
Ref: DRN37409782RBS decided not to take the dispute  any further because it didnt think it had a reasonably 
prospect of succeeding.  And I cant say its made a mistake or treated Ms W unfairly by 
deciding that.
I understand how strongly Ms W feels about  her complaint and that shell be disappointed  by 
my decision.  She may like to get advice about  any further avenues she may have available  
to pursue this matter  further.
 
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3740978