K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy about the service  he received  from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited. 
In particular hes unhappy about the time it has taken the business to transfer his holdings 
from a third party provider.  
background 
Hargreaves hasnt upheld  the complaint. In short, it says the transfer was made within the 30 
day HMRC guidance  period.  Also the third party provider was known under a different name 
to the one it initially had. But as a gesture  of good  will it offered to pay £52 compensation. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
The business overall offer to pay £52  comprised of £40 plus the dealing  charge  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The business acted  in line with its internal procedures, it didnt cause a deliberate  
delay and completed the transfer  within 30 days.  
It had to make enquiries about whether the third party provider was registered and 
the consequences if it wasnt.  
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He 
maintains the offer is unreasonable given that the business  failed  to action his request on 
two occasions.  He also feels hes lost out a lot more than whats  being offered.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im satisfied 
that the goodwill gesture payment by Hargreaves is fair and reasonable.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  Ive also listened  to the relevant telephone calls provided by the 
business. However, I hope he wont  take the fact my findings focus on what  I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr D and Hargreaves, and reach  what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
Ref: DRN36172732In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
It seems  to me that Hargreaves was trying to do the right thing by trying to establish if it 
could act upon Mr Ds request  and if so, the potential  consequences of a transfer  from a 
non-registered ISA provider.  
I note in one of the telephone call recordings Mr D was told that Hargreaves needed to 
confirm if the third party provider was a business it could accept a transfer from. Despite Mr 
Ds initial assurances, Hargreaves said that the third party provider wasnt on the HMRC  list, 
so it needed to check that it was, in order to establish if this was a transfer  it could accept.  
I appreciate Mr D has confirmed that the third party provider has transferred to/from  
Hargreaves in the past. But Im also mindful  that it was registered with HMRC under a 
different name, and this is whats likely to have caused the confusion. 
Although the transfer took longer than Mr D wouldve  liked because the initial transaction 
had to be cancelled  and resubmitted,  Hargreaves still completed  the transfer within 30 days. 
I note what Mr D says about him supplying  the information that enabled Hargreaves to 
complete his instructions, which it couldve got itself.  But Im conscious a business like 
Hargreaves receives many requests and its unlikely to be able to make phone  calls in every  
case. It had procedures that it needed  to follow and thats what it did. 
So, in the circumstances, I think the offer to pay £40 plus the dealing  charge, amounting  to a 
total of £52 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr D will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr D 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3617273