K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy  was taken out in 
one of the banks branches when Mr S was applying for extra  borrowing on his mortgage.  
The policy provided  Mr S with cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Mr S says he successfully complained about  another PPI policy he bought  and that 
complaint was upheld. Each complaint we look is decided on its own merits. So Im only 
considering this particular sale and the circumstances Mr S has told us about. 
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S suggests he wasnt given a choice about  taking out the PPI  he says if he had been 
he wouldnt  have bought it, because he didnt need it. I cant be sure what was discussed  
between him and the bank, but I see there was a separate  application form for the PPI which 
Mr S signed.  Theres no mention on Mr Ss mortgage offer that PPI is required.  Overall I 
cant see anything that implies that the PPI is compulsory, so I dont  think Mr S could have 
thought he had to have  the PPI in order  to get the additional mortgage. 
Overall, despite what Mr S remembers, I think the bank  made  him aware that PPI was 
optional and he chose  to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it advised  Mr S to take out the policy  and it doesnt  look like it 
was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Mr S was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.  
-Mr S did have some work-related benefits  if he couldnt work  due to a sickness  or 
accident. And he also had an income protection policy that would replace part of his 
basic salary on an indefinite basis. But the policy would have  paid out in addition  to the 
occupational benefits and having  the policy in place would mean Mr S could  use his 
work-related benefits to pay for other  expenses. This would probably have been all the 
more important when  the policy was sold given  that Mr S was solely responsible  for 
repaying the mortgage, and a considerable part of his income  was commission  related  
Ref: DRN32778892which he wouldnt be able to earn if he was too ill to work. Overall I think  Mr S would 
have had some use for the policy despite  his other  arrangements. 
-Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr S 
needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-The PPI application  set out the monthly benefit  that would be paid if a successful claim 
was made. Im not sure when Mr S was told the cost, and that may well have  been  in the 
meeting when it was sold. But it was in line with the cost of other  similar policies and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit  was insufficient to meet  
his monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said Mr S wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr S would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3277889