K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a loan after theyd 
rejected a foreign cheque payment unfairly.
As Mr Hs complaint has been  dealt with by a representative, for ease Ill refer to anything  
shes told us as being said by Mr H.
Background
In December 2017, Mr H tried to pay a cheque into his UK current account from a French 
account on a negotiation  basis. Unfortunately, this was rejected and presented on a 
collection basis, meaning it would  take some weeks to clear.
So, in January 2018 Mr H attended  a Barclays branch to understand why this had happened.  
When he was in branch,  Mr H took out a £5,000 loan with the view to consolidate his debts. 
He used this loan to pay a credit  card as well as transferring  another amount to a third party.
Mr H met his monthly payments on the loan for the next four months. But from June,  Mr H 
stopped making  these  payments. Barclays chased Mr H for payment and Mr H then raised a 
complaint.
Mr H said he thought  Barclays mis-sold him the loan when he was in branch. He said he 
thought Barclays  had taken advantage of his difficult financial situation  and convinced him to 
take a loan he couldnt afford. So, he thought Barclays should write off the loan.
Barclays didnt agree. They said the loan had been  approved considering Mr Hs income and 
expenditure which showed it to be affordable. As Mr H had used the loan to pay a credit card 
and a third party, they felt this showed Mr H understood the reason for the loan. They 
explained Mr H had the 14 day cooling off period to change his mind on the loan and didnt 
contact them  to cancel  it. So, they thought it was sold reasonably. Mr H was unhappy with 
this response so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. He said Barclays  were able to 
decide how they presented the cheque so didnt find them at fault for that aspect  of the 
complaint. He also thought the loan was affordable and as Mr H used it to consolidate his 
debts rather than cancel  it within the 14 day cooling off period, he didnt agree it was mis-
sold. So, he didnt think Barclays needed  to do anything  further.
Mr H disagreed with this view. He and his representative felt he was told by Barclays to pay 
off his credit  card straight  away meaning he was unable to use the 14 day cooling off period. 
He maintained the loan was unaffordable and this should have been obvious to Barclays if 
they looked at his previous banking history.  So Mr H felt hed found himself  in a much more 
difficult financial situation due to the actions  of Barclays.
Ref: DRN35071452The points made by Mr H didnt change the investigators initial view and Mr H remained 
unhappy. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Ive first looked at whether Barclays were  reasonable to reject the €200 cheque  payment on 
a negotiation basis as this decision led to Mr H attending his local branch where the loan 
application was made.
Ive seen Barclays eligibility criteria for foreign cheques being  paid on a negotiation  basis.  
They state clearly  that cheques  cant be negotiated on savings accounts,  which  Mr H 
attempted to pay it into. Mr H has said he wanted  to pay into this account so the money  
wouldnt be used to pay off the overdraft he was in on his current  account.
I think Barclays are entitled to set their own policies on how these cheques are processed 
and theyve handled Mr Hs cheque payment in line with these. Ive seen rather  than 
rejecting the payment outright, they presented  the cheque on a collection basis meaning the 
funds would still be paid into the savings account  but would take longer to do so. I think  this 
shows Barclays attempted to ensure Mr H received the €200, whilst operating  within their 
own policies. So, I dont  think  theyve  acted unfairly.
Ive then turned to the affordability  of the loan Mr H took out after the cheque payment was 
delayed. Mr H thinks the loan was mis-sold as it was unaffordable  and has left him in a more  
difficult financial position. There  arent set checks that a lender needs to carry out when 
considering the affordability of a loan.  But, Id expect Barclays to have completed checks  
that were proportionate  to the size of the loan Mr H took out.
Ive seen that when making  the loan application, Barclays  considered  the income and 
expenditure based on the figures Mr H provided. This showed  a disposable income  of £339. 
They also considered the transactional data shown on Mr Hs account over recent  months 
which showed a disposable income  of £309.  As the monthly re-payment figure of the loan 
was £137.02,  I dont think Barclays were unreasonable to decide  Mr H had the ability  to 
repay the loan.  
Im aware Mr H has said he doesnt think Barclays took into account other expenses  such as 
contributions to the household but I think Mr H had the opportunity to provide this information 
when declaring  his expenditure. I dont think itd be proportionate to expect Barclays to 
review an extended  amount  of statements to make sure the information he provided was 
correct. So, I think theyve  acted  reasonably  by assessing the application on the expenditure 
information he gave  and the transactional data they had available.
Barclays have explained they completed a credit check which showed Mr H had been 
managing his outstanding  credit effectively. Mr H has confirmed he had no other credit apart 
from a credit card and his overdraft facility. So, I dont think there were any reasons that 
suggested Barclays should decline the loan application. For these reasons, I think  theyve 
acted fairly  when giving Mr H the loan of £5,000.
Ref: DRN35071453Ive also considered whether the loan was mis-sold  to Mr H as hes said he felt pressured 
into taking it. Hes said Barclays should have  extended  his overdraft for a short period of 
time instead.
But, I dont think Mr Hs actions both before and after he received the loan support this. Ive 
seen the loan agreement that Mr H signed  which explained he had 14 days  to change his 
mind about  the loan.  They explained  the money could be returned  without giving  a reason or 
having to pay an early settlement fee. Instead, Mr H used  the loan to pay off his credit card 
and a further £1,000  was transferred to another third party. I think this shows that Mr H 
understood he was taking  the loan to consolidate  his debts so I dont think  itd be fair for me 
to say it was mis-sold. 
Mr H has said he was told by Barclays to pay his credit  card balance as soon as possible 
and says this is why he didnt utilise the 14 day cooling  off period. But, this is advice Id 
expect Barclays to give to ensure there  was no further interest or charges. Im also aware 
that Mr H attempted  to take out similar loans previously,  which were rejected, to consolidate  
his debts. 
Although I cant comment on why the previous  applications were turned  down,  I think  they 
show that Mr H was interested  in consolidating his debts before attending branch and 
making the successful  loan application. So, I think its reasonable to assume that Mr H would 
likely have been open to consolidation when it was discussed in branch.
 
Im aware Mr Hs debts totalled  less than the £5,000 he was given and hes questioned why 
he was given more  than the necessary amount seeing as the loan was intended  to clear 
those. But, Im aware he was also in his overdraft at the time and that was the reason why 
he needed the €200  as hed reach  the overdraft limit. Ive seen the remaining amount of the 
loan was used  to clear  Mr Hs overdraft and left a small amount of money surplus.
I dont think Barclays have been unreasonable by approving the larger loan as it helped ease 
Mr Hs financial  difficulties regarding the overdraft. Ive also seen that Mr H signed the loan 
agreement which clearly  explained how much the loan was for so I think he was happy to 
accept the additional amount.
Im aware since taking out the loan, Mr H has moved back into his overdraft  and this has left 
him unable  to pay his monthly loan payments, which Barclays  are now looking to recover.  I 
understand this must be a challenging situation  and I appreciate the worry this must be 
causing. I can also understand  why, with hindsight, Mr H now feels he wouldnt have agreed 
to the loan. But, for me to uphold the complaint, I would need  to agree that Barclays were  
unreasonable when approving the loan at that specific time with the information they had 
available.
And for this complaint  I cant agree that they were.  I think they were fair to approve the loan 
based on the information they could consider at the time. And Im satisfied Mr H made a free 
choice to take the lending  and use it so consolidate  the outstanding  debts  he had. So, I dont 
think Barclays need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about  Barclays Bank Plc.
Ref: DRN35071454Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3507145