K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained because Zurich Insurance PLCs  contractors damaged his wardrobe and it 
hasnt yet been fixed or replaced.
background
Zurich dealt with a claim for water damage  to Mr Ls flat. Mr L was unhappy with various 
aspects of how Zurichs contractor did the repair so he complained. Zurich issued its final 
response to Mr Ls complaint in September 2018 and accepted  that the service Mr L had 
received wasnt good  enough. Amongst other things, it agreed to arrange for the 
manufacturer to inspect  Mr Ls damaged  wardrobe to ascertain whether it could be repaired 
or needed replacing. It said it would then proceed  with the matter accordingly.
Mr L later told us that Zurich had sorted  out the minor problems  he had, but the problem with 
the wardrobe remained. He felt that as Zurich had caused the damage it should  replace it or 
put it back to the condition  it was in. He said three people  had tried to fix the damage.
Zurich told us that someone had been  to look at the wardrobe  but it didn't hear anything 
further from Mr L. It further said that if Mr L was unhappy with anything  that had or hadnt  
happened since then he would need  to make a new complaint and give it time to investigate 
further.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she felt Zurich 
satisfactorily resolved  the outstanding issue with the wardrobe by arranging for it to be 
inspected by the manufacturer. She agreed with Zurich  that Mr L needed to make  a new 
complaint about  anything  that happened after that.
Mr L disagreed with our investigator. He said the manufacturer told him the wardrobe would 
now be hard to match  and that it would  be expensive to get it back to how it was before, but 
to leave it with them  and they will contact Zurich. He said he hasnt heard anything  further.
Mr L later spoke with one of our managers,  who explained that she understood the point he 
made about this all being one complaint as the events were part and parcel of the same  
underlying issue.  But she explained that Zurich was entitled to have the opportunity  to 
investigate any new points and try to put them right before our service  got involved.  She 
further explained that Zurich was aware  of the ongoing complaint and that it had confirmed 
to us it will now investigate it. She also said that wed set up a new complaint and that we 
could investigate this if Zurich didnt resolve  the outstanding issue to Mr Ls satisfaction.  Mr L 
confirmed to our manager that he was satisfied with this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Zurichs  contractor damaged  the wardrobe. Theres 
reference in Zurichs file to the contractor  admitting as much.  That means  Zurich  is 
responsible for fixing the problem  whether that be by repairing or replacing the wardrobe.  
And it seems that Zurich  has accepted  responsibility  for that. Otherwise it wouldnt have 
agreed to arrange  for the wardrobe manufacturer to inspect  the wardrobe and to then 
proceed with the matter  after that.
Ref: DRN39843522I think Zurich agreeing to do that was a fair resolution to the complaint as it stood at that 
point. So Im not going to require Zurich to do anything further now  under this complaint  
to put things right.
Things have nevertheless moved on because the wardrobe  is still damaged.  I think  theres  
an argument both ways for whether  this should be dealt with as a new complaint or as part 
of this one. Its true that Zurich  is entitled  to a specific  period of time to resolve  matters  
before our service can get involved.  And the fact the wardrobe still hasnt been fixed is due 
to whats happened  or not happened  since September 2018.  But its also clear that Zurich 
took steps in September 2018 to rectify matters, and then doesnt appear  to have done 
anything since. So theres an argument that the issue now is exactly  the same as the issue 
in September  2018  and should therefore be part of this complaint.
However, I note Zurich is now looking at the ongoing  issue.  So I dont want  to say anything 
now about what I think Zurich should  or shouldnt have done once the manufacturer  had 
inspected the wardrobe as I dont want to prejudice  or delay any decision Zurich  might make,  
or any investigation we might carry out on that new complaint (if it comes to us).
So Ive concluded  in this case that its best to allow Zurich the remaining  few weeks  to 
investigate the fact that the wardrobe still hasnt been fixed.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3984352