K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says MBNA Limited  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
 I think MBNA made Mrs M aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because she did complete the credit  card application  form to show  that she 
wanted the cover. There was an option to decline the cover  next to the box that Mrs M 
ticked. So I think she wouldve  realised  she had a choice.
 MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  
for her. But even  if MBNA  had recommended  the policy, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable  for Mrs M, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs M has said she thinks she was entitled  to statutory sick pay, and that she had 
some savings.  But the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to Mrs Ms statutory 
benefits. And it wouldve meant she couldve  used her savings to cover other 
expenses. So I think Mrs M wouldve had some  use for the policy.
 Its possible the information MBNA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs M would have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3308255