K822xcomplaint
Mr T and Mrs J complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long dealing with their 
buy to let (BTL) mortgage application.
background
A decision was made to apply for this mortgage  on 9 January 2018.  This is one of a set of 
linked complaints involving other  members of Mr Ts and Mrs Js families  relating to 
mortgages applied  for at the same time. Whilst Barclays looked at the complaint as a whole, 
we separated them out into each  individual transaction.  This complaint relates to the 
re-mortgage of a property Ill refer to as 3H.
Barclays has admitted the mortgage adviser gave  a poor level of service which led to this 
re-mortgage not completing until 7 August 2018.  This was because the mortgage adviser 
delayed submitting the packaged application, packaged it poorly,  and input information 
incorrectly. Barclays has said the mortgage adviser should have submitted the packaged 
application on 9 February 2018,  and had she done so the mortgage  would  have completed  
around 18 May 2018. On that basis Barclays set out its offer of compensation as:
I am happy to pay the difference  in interest  you have paid with your previous Lender  from 
18 May to 7 August, which is when your Mortgage  completed. This comes to £122.03 and is 
based on the difference between your old rate of 2.50% and your new rate of 2.17%.
I understand that your Mortgage  with your previous lender matured before your application 
completed. I am sorry for the concern and distress this caused. I appreciate you received a 
letter from them requesting repayment of the account and you have advised this could have 
potentially caused  issues with one of the applicants [sic] job. I agree  this could have been 
avoided had we handled your application  better. As your Mortgage matured you paid further  
interest of £90.19.  I am happy to pay this and have calculated  this figure based on you being 
charged the additional interest at 2.5% from 1 to 8 August.
Due to our delay of approximately 82 days, you will not fully benefit from the five year fixed  
rate you chose. It is due to this I am happy to pay the interest  you have potentially lost out on 
due to our delays. This is based on the difference between the rate of 2.17% and the current  
Barclays Standard  Variable Rate of 5.24%. This totals £1,135.26 and covers the 82 days  
you would  have missed  out on. 
You have  requested reimbursement of postage costs  for sending identification and deeds to 
the Solicitors as part of your application.  Whilst I understand  you feel you should not have 
had to do this, it was a requirement to enable us to complete the Mortgage.  It is due to this I 
cannot meet  your request  for reimbursement of your postage costs.
I appreciate this application took an unacceptable  amount  of time to complete and you have 
invested a great deal of your time chasing  things up and attempting  to get the application 
finanlised [sic]. I acknowledge you have  asked for a sum of compensation totalling 
£1,950.00. I am upholding your complaint. However,  I am unable to meet this request. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I would like to offer £600.00  for the distress  and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN32866432The total amount  offered in resolution of your complaint is £1,947.48. Should you wish to 
accept the funds mentioned in this letter, please  contact  me with details of the account you 
would like these crediting.
Our investigator thought the general principle Barclays  had put forward was a fair resolution  
to this complaint.  But he thought the dates needed amending and that £750 was a more  
reasonable sum for the distress and inconvenience  caused. In terms of the dates he felt the 
application could  have been submitted on 23 January (not 9 February)  and that 
twelve weeks from that date was a reasonable timeframe for completion.
Barclays agreed to the revised redress, but Mr T and Mrs J didnt and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr T and Mrs J wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way I have. Ours is an informal  dispute  
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
means is that we dont  represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at or what information is needed.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. Here Mr T and Mrs J were told their re-mortgage would complete a lot more  quickly  
than it could. This is a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. 
When were looking at complaints of this type, we consider the appropriate remedy  is to 
place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been 
given. We dont put them in the position  they would be in if it had been correct.
Mr T and Mrs J could  never have been  in the position where their re-mortgage completed  
four to six weeks from the date they applied.  There are no formally contracted timescales of 
how long applications  should take as it simply depends on how many  applications Barclays  
has to deal with at any one time, and the complexity.  Mr T and Mrs J both have various other 
BTL properties  so their portfolios needed to be considered as part of this application. Its 
been confirmed  that Barclays would normally expect  these sorts of applications to take up to 
twelve weeks and Ive no reason to doubt  that, as in my experience  that seems a reasonable 
time frame where a portfolio  needs to be considered.
Barclays said a further four weeks should  be allowed at the start to give the mortgage 
adviser time to package  up the application  and submit it for processing, but our investigator  
felt two weeks was more appropriate. Mr T and Mrs J didnt think any further  time would  
have been needed as they say they provided  everything promptly.  Having considered 
everything, I agree with our investigator. The full mortgage package takes some time to pull 
together, and Mr T and Mrs J wouldnt  have  been  the only customers and mortgage 
application the mortgage adviser was dealing with. 
Ref: DRN32866433Having considered everything, Im satisfied  the application should have been  made  on 
9 January, then a two-week timeframe  be allowed  for the full mortgage application package 
to be submitted for processing  and then a further twelve  weeks for the application to be 
processed to completion. For that reason, Im satisfied the financial loss part of the redress 
offered by Barclays in its response to this complaint, with an amendment  for the date used to 
be 17 April rather  than 18 May,  is fair and reasonable.  
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish  a business and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly  no amount of compensation  can change what happened; all I can do 
is consider the impact  of a businesss actions on the consumer. Our investigator felt £750 
compensation was fair and having  looked at all the evidence   and keeping in mind the level 
of award we normally make  I consider  that to be fair and reasonable.
There are no grounds for me to order Barclays to refund the product fee paid as that fee was 
due for the mortgage product Mr T and Mrs J selected. The fee was not payable for the 
administration of the application.  As Mr T and Mrs J have the benefit of the product they 
selected, its only right they pay the applicable fee due for it.
Finally, I understand  Mr T and Mrs J are concerned that Barclays has been unable  to 
provide a copy of a conference call that was undertaken as part of the complaint handling.  
Mr T and Mrs J have  said theyre absolutely livid that our investigator  didnt  think  the 
recording would make a difference to the outcome  of this complaint. Mr T and Mrs J have 
said it would  make a huge  difference as it will clarify the facts are as they have stated,  and 
that Barclays clearly upheld every single  point they made. 
But its not in dispute that Barclays have upheld this complaint and admitted that Mr T and 
Mrs J were given  misinformation about the timescales, so listening to a call simply reiterating 
this wouldnt be needed, even if it were still available. Mr T and Mrs J have also questioned 
whether the loss of the conversation data is considered  a data breach, but thats not 
something Im able to comment on as thats  a matter  for the Information Commissioners  
Office (www.ico.org.uk).
redress
Barclays should pay compensation  as set out in its final response letter  (as quoted  in the 
background section  of this decision) but with two changes:
The distress and inconvenience payment should  be increased from £600 to £750.
The date used  for when completion  should have happened should be 17 April rather  
than 18 May 2018.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as set out in 
the redress section  above. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr T and Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Ref: DRN32866434Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3286643