K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about five short term loans  that he took out with Curo Transatlantic
Limited, trading  as WageDay Advance, (WDA). He said that WDA shouldnt  have given  him
the loans as they were unaffordable.  The complaint is brought to this service  by a claims 
management company.  But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr P.
background
Mr P took out three payday loans and two instalment  loans with WDA as follows:
Loan number  and 
date of loanLoan amount
Amount to be 
repaid including 
interest (if paid by 
due date)Date repaid 
1.4/7/2015 £150 £182.40 31/7/2015
2.18/10/2015 £80 £107.52 1/12/2015
3.3/7/2016 £150 4 instalments of 
£54.31  19/10/2016
4.28/10/2016 £170 £235.28 16/12/2016
5.28/1/2017 £300 3 instalments of 
£113.58 and one 
instalment of 
£113.5714/4/2017
Mr P said that the granting of unaffordable  payday loans prevented  him from meeting his 
essential living expenses. Suitable  affordability checks  were  not carried  out by WDA. Mr P 
was taking loans  from ten other payday loan providers  and was reliant on short term lending.
WDA said that it asked for Mr Ps income  and expenditure and made credit reference  
agency checks.
The adjudicator said that WDAs  checks went  far enough. She said that for Loans  1 and 2, 
the checks showed that the highest  repayment  was well within Mr Ps stated disposable 
income. The adjudicator  noted that Loan 3 was taken out more  than seven months  later and 
the highest repayment was a small proportion of Mr Ps declared income. She also said that 
Mr Ps stated  disposable income was sufficient to meet  the loan repayments on Loans 3 
and 4. So she didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr P disagreed. He said that he wanted the complaint to be reassessed  as there appeared 
to be no evidence that his monthly  expenses were ever queried. For example, monthly living  
costs of £50 wouldnt  cover food costs  let alone utility bills. He said that if WDA had checked 
his bank statements, it would have seen that he was gambling and using other  payday  
lenders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It should have made checks to make  sure 
Ref: DRN38687652Mr P could afford to repay each of the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr P was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks WDA  had to do. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr P borrowed from 
WDA. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable  steps to assess the customers 
ability to meet repayments  under  a regulated  credit  agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences. The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make  repayments 
without undue difficulty, and that this means  borrowers should  be able to make  their 
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet 
these repayments.  
WDA has shown us the checks it did before lending to Mr P. It asked him each time about 
his normal income and his total monthly  expenditure.  The application forms WDA  has 
provided to us break the expenditure down into rent, monthly other credit,  and monthly living  
costs. An amount for utilities  costs is also shown for Loans 1 and 2, although  the loan 
applications for these  loans  didnt  ask about  other credit.
WDA has also provided us with a summary  of its credit checks  for Loans 1, 4 and 5. It 
doesnt appear that weve received  a summary  of the credit  checks for Loans 2 and 3.
Loan 1
The repayment amount for Loan  1 was for £182.40. Mr P told WDA that his monthly income 
was £1,400 and his regular expenditure was £400. So he had a disposable income of 
£1,000. 
WDA has summarised its credit check which showed that Mr P had total debts of £4,512 and 
no defaults or county  court judgements. He had two active short term loans. He also had five 
accounts up to date in the previous three  months.  WDA said that the repayment  amount was 
15% of Mr Ps disposable  income and it was happy to lend to Mr P. Overal I, I can see that 
its unlikely that WDA would have  had additional concerns over its credit  check.
I can see that the loan repayment amount was relatively modest compared  to Mr Ps 
disposable income. And there was little to suggest  to WDA  at that stage  that Mr P wasnt  
using the loan in the way it was intended  as a short term solution to a temporary cash  flow 
problem. 
So, I think it was proportionate  for WDA to consider Mr Ps disposable income  at that time,  
without making further checks for Loan  1. So, I dont think WDA  did anything wrong in giving 
Loan 1 to Mr P.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for the reduced amount of £80 and was taken  out more  than three  months after 
Loan 1. Mr Ps declared disposable income was still £1,000. I think  the repayment  amount of 
£107.52 was still relatively modest  compared to Mr Ps disposable income. So, I still think  it 
was proportionate for WDA to consider Mr Ps disposable income  again  here,  without 
making further checks for Loan 2. So, I dont  think WDA  did anything wrong in giving  Loan  2 
to Mr P.
Ref: DRN38687653Loan 3
Mr P took out Loan 3 more than seven months after he repaid Loan 2. I think it reasonable 
for WDA to have seen  this gap as an indication  that Mr Ps finances had moved on from 
whatever situation  had required  his previous  loans. Loan 3 was for £150 repayable by four 
monthly repayments of £54.31. Mr P told WDA  that his monthly income was £1,750 and his 
regular expenditure was £475. So he had a disposable income  of £1,275.  I think  that the 
information WDA gathered before  Loan 3 suggested that the loan repayments were 
affordable, and I think it was reasonable for WDA to rely on the information it had before this 
loan. So, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint  about Loan 3.
Loan 4
Mr P obtained Loan 4 nine days after WDA received payment for Loan  3. But the loan
amount had increased to £170 and the repayment  amount had increased to £235.28. Whilst 
I think the frequency and increased amount of the lending might  have given WDA  some  
concerns, I note that Mr Ps stated disposable income was still £1,275 and the repayment  
amount was still relatively modest compared to his disposable income.  
I also note that WDAs credit check showed that he had nine accounts up to date in the 
previous three months and one active short term loan. WDA said that there was nothing  on 
the check which raised significant concerns. Ive not seen anything in WDAs  summary  of 
that check which I think should have caused  WDA additional concerns about  Mr Ps financial 
situation. So, I still think it was proportionate here for WDA to consider Mr Ps disposable 
income again, without  making further  checks for Loan 4. So, I dont think  WDA  did anything 
wrong in giving Loan 4 to Mr P.
Loan 5
Mr P obtained Loan 5 around six weeks after repaying Loan 4. The loan amount had 
increased to £300  but was repayable by four monthly instalments of around £113.58. Whilst I 
think the frequency of the lending might have given WDA some concerns,  and I note that 
Mr Ps stated  disposable income had decreased to £800, I think  the repayment amounts 
were still relatively modest compared to his disposable income.  
I also note that WDAs credit check showed that he had seven accounts up to date in the 
previous three months and one active short term loan. The last short term loan was taken 
out two months  prior to the application. Again Ive not seen anything in WDAs summary of 
that check which I think should have caused  WDA additional concerns about  Mr Ps financial 
situation. So, I still think it was proportionate here for WDA to consider Mr Ps disposable 
income again, without  making further  checks for Loan 5. So, I dont think  WDA  did anything 
wrong in giving Loan 5 to Mr P.
I note that Mr P has commented about  whether WDA had ever queried the amount  of his 
living costs.  He said that his declared amount of £50 for living  costs  wouldnt have  been  
sufficient for food and utilities.  But at the time of the loans, I think  it was reasonable for WDA 
to accept Mr Ps expenses information  at face value.  And I can see that it wouldnt have 
been unusual  for Mr P to have lived in a household  where these costs might  have been met 
by the other residents. 
Ref: DRN38687654Mr P has also referred to his bank  statements being  checked. But I think it would have been 
disproportionate for WDA to have asked for Mr Ps bank statements or independent  
verification of Mr Ps expenses for any of his loans. 
I also note Mr P refers to his gambling.  But that wasnt something  Mr P had disclosed to 
WDA or something that WDA would  have discovered from what I consider to be 
proportionate checks.
I realise this outcome will disappoint  Mr P. But I hope he can understand my reasons for 
making this decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3868765