K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr L says Barclays  Bank UK Plc, trading  as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Barclays had to make Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. I cant be certain  what was said when the policy was sold, but Barclays 
has provided a copy  of the application  form that was completed at the time. The form had a 
section on it for PPI where  there  is an option to select to take or decline PPI. The option to 
take PPI has been selected. If Mr L didnt require PPI, there is an option  to decline to take it 
which could have been selected. Mr L was also agreeing to an important financial 
commitment, so I think he would have  looked over the form before signing in agreement with 
the information on it. So overall I think Barclays made it clear  that Mr L didnt  have to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not 
remember this now many years later.
Ive also considered what Mr L has said about  not knowing that PPI had been added  and 
that it was a hidden charge. I think its likely that PPI wouldve appeared on Mr Ls monthly 
credit card statements and I think Mr L wouldve questioned why he was paying for PPI with 
Barclays if it was something he didnt know hed taken out. But it seems Mr L continued to 
pay PPI for some  years  after taking the policy out.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr L has said he would not have received any sick pay from his employer  at the time but that 
he had some savings  he could use. But this policy would cover 10% of the outstanding 
balance of his account for up to 12 months  if he was too sick to work or he lost his job.  And  
it wouldve  allowed him to use any savings he had for other expenses,  or keep them  intact 
for the future. So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
Mr L has said he wouldnt have agreed  to the PPI as 10% cover  was pointless. As Ive 
already said, Mr L chose to take out the PPI. Nevertheless, Mr L has told us he would  not 
have received any sick pay from his employer at the time.  So I think he would have valued 
the extra security the policy gave him if things went wrong.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
Ref: DRN32653152affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3265315