K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about the administration of her online Self Invested  Personal Pension 
(SIPP) plan by Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  (Aviva). She complains Aviva  failed to 
invest the money she paid into the plan in April 2017  and she has lost investment growth  on 
that money.  Ms H says Aviva also failed to properly inform her that her money hadnt been  
invested. 
background
Ms H applied for an online Self Invested Personal Pension plan in 2017. She gave an 
investment instruction in March 2017 but unfortunately her debit card payment did not go 
through.
Ms H successfully made the payment into her plan in April 2017  but her money wasnt  
invested.
On 26 April 2017 Aviva contacted Ms H by email and informed her there was a pending deal 
from 9 March 2017 on her account. It asked her to confirm whether she still wanted to 
proceed with that investment. Aviva  said if it didnt receive a response from Ms H it would 
assume she no longer  wanted to invest in that fund and the deal would be cancelled.
In March 2018 Ms H made a further  lump sum payment into her Self Invested Personal 
Pension plan. When  she made this payment  Ms H became aware that the money she had 
transferred in 2017 was being  held in a cash account and had not been  invested by Aviva. 
Ms H complained to Aviva and asked it to invest  her money into the fund she had originally 
chosen. At around  the same  time she invested  the 2018 lump sum into her chosen fund.
Aviva initially  contacted Ms H in June 2018 and apologised  for failing to carry out her 
instruction to invest. It paid Ms H £200 for the trouble and upset caused. It then wrote to Ms 
H again in July 2019 and said having investigated further  it could see that her instruction had 
not been carried out because her debit card payment had not gone through.  Aviva said a 
payment had gone through  in April 2017  but no investment choices were attached to it. This 
was why her money had been paid into the cash account. So it said it was not going to 
compensate her for any lost investment growth.
Ms H disagreed and reiterated that Aviva  had failed to invest her money.  Ms H said when 
she had initially contacted Aviva its representative  had told her they could see on the system 
that the monies should have been  invested in the fund she had chosen.  
Aviva responded in September 2018  and said the investment hadnt taken place because 
the original payment hadnt gone through. It said it had contacted Ms H by email on 26 April 
2017but had received  no reply. Aviva said the nature of her plan meant it was the 
responsibility of the plan holder to decide their investment  choices. Aviva  explained  that Ms 
H was able to make her own fund choices online. So it suggested Ms H log into her online 
account and select  her investment choices.
Ms H disagreed. She said she didnt believe she had received  the email  in April 2017 and 
questioned why Aviva hadnt sent it via the secure  email portal. Ms H said she had received  
requests from the online system after the lump  sum hadnt gone through asking her for 
payment. She said it hadnt been made clear that she had to re submit her investment 
choices. Ms H referred her complaint  to this service. 
Ref: DRN33502092Our adjudicator considered Ms Hs complaint  but didnt feel it should  be upheld.  He took into 
account the background circumstances and noted Aviva had paid Ms H £200 compensation 
in June 2018 and a further £100 in September 2018.
He took into account that the investment hadnt  been made because the debit payment 
hadnt gone through. He noted Aviva had written  to Ms H to ask whether she wanted to carry 
on with the investment of her monies. He felt it was reasonable for Aviva  to contact Ms H by 
email and noted the email was correctly addressed. So he felt it was likely on balance  that it 
would have been received  by Ms H. The adjudicator also took into account  that this online 
plan was designed for plan holders to make their own investment choices and it was their 
responsibility to do so.
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H took out an online Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) plan in 2017 with the 
intention of investing a lump sum.  Unfortunately because it was a large  lump  sum there were 
some difficulties with her debit card payment and it didnt go through. As a result  Ms H had 
to look to alternative ways  to send the lump  sum.  So although the deal to invest  was set up 
on 
9 March 2017 it wasnt until the beginning  of April 2017  that the lump sum was paid into her 
plan.
With this type of plan the business  can only act on the instruction of the plan holder, Ms H, to 
invest in a particular  fund. The terms and conditions say:
All cleared Payments,  except for Re-registration,  will be initially  credited to Your  Cash
Account.
They also say:
You will need to submit an instruction online through MyAviva to buy and sell any 
Investments.
And:
We will not apply any discretion when dealing on Your behalf  nor accept liability for any 
losses, direct or consequential,  which You may realise as a result  of the investment 
decisions made by You.
If the business doesnt have a clear instruction from the plan holder then it will hold the 
monies in a cash account until it receives  an instruction. 
Ref: DRN33502093In this instance there was a not insignificant time gap between the deal being set up and 
Mrs Hs second successful attempt  to pay the lump  sum. The first payment hadnt  gone 
through and there were no instructions attached to the successful payment. So the business 
took the view that it couldnt assume  the initial instruction applied. I dont think that was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
I also note that the business didnt just leave matters  there  but it contacted Ms H by email in 
April 2017. It asked  whether she wanted to carry out the original deal  It said if it didnt hear 
back from her it would assume she didnt want to pursue that investment choice.
Ms H says she wasnt aware of this email and questions why it was not sent via the online 
portal or in the post. 
It seems  that the email was correctly addressed and as this was an online plan I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for communication to be via email. I note this generally  would  be 
considered a quicker form of communication than post. I appreciate that sending  it via the 
online portal might have been more secure,  but I am not persuaded that it was unreasonable  
for the business  to ask Ms H about her investment intentions using regular email. While I 
appreciate Ms H says she was unaware of the email I still take into account that the 
business made a reasonable  attempt  to contact Ms H to highlight to her that no investment 
had been made.
Ms H also points out that the business  said it would assume she did not want to pursue  her 
original instruction unless  it heard back from her. She says that was the wrong way round. It 
should have assumed she wanted to pursue her original investment unless it heard 
otherwise. 
I think the time gap between the original instruction and the money being paid raised a 
question as to whether  this was still a valid instruction  particularly as there  were  no 
investment instructions attached to the successful payment. So I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for the business  to want to confirm the instructions were still valid.
I also take into account the nature  of this plan is that the plan holder logs in online and 
selects which funds they wish to invest in. This is confirmed in the terms and conditions  of 
the plan. I take into account that the plan holder can use the online facility  to manage their 
plan. I think there is an expectation  that the plan holder will give specific  instructions to the 
provider of the plan. So I am not persuaded it was unreasonable for the business to wait for 
an explicit confirmation of the original instruction.
Also as there had been an issue with the payment  I dont  think  it would have been 
unreasonable to have  expected Ms H to have logged into her online account at some  point 
and checked it had all gone through properly. Particularly as she hadnt  received anything 
from Aviva  to confirm her monies had been  invested  in her chosen fund. I understand details 
of the transactions that had taken place could be viewed using the online facility.
It is very unfortunate for Ms H that her monies havent been invested  as she wished.  But I 
have to consider  whether the Aviva has acted incorrectly  or unreasonably in the 
circumstances. And for the reasons mentioned above I dont think  it has.
Having said that I do think some of the communication from Aviva to Ms H in 2018 was a bit 
confusing and gave  Ms H the impression that Aviva  was going to carry out the transaction 
for her.
Ref: DRN33502094When Ms H contacted the business in March  2018 it seems the representative agreed with 
Ms H to some degree that Aviva had not carried out Ms Hs instruction  because there is 
reference to looking to best price this for Ms H. This was supported  by Avivas letter  in 
June 2018 that said I've asked the team to review  your policy and complete the request. I'll 
contact you within 2 weeks with an update. So I can see why at that time Ms H might have 
been under  the impression that Aviva was going  to invest  the 2017  funds  for her. 
It wasnt made clear in the July 2018  correspondence whether or not Aviva was going  to 
invest the monies for Ms H. Although Aviva did say it wasnt  going  to compensate  Ms H for 
lost investment growth because it hadnt made an error, it wasnt until September 2018 that 
Aviva made it clear  that it wasnt going to invest  the 2017 money  for Ms H. It said the type of 
plan Ms H held was designed so the plan holder made their own investment choices and 
gave instructions online to purchase  particular funds.
Whilst I think the communication  and correspondence wasnt entirely clear I take into 
account that Aviva wasnt contractually obliged to invest  the funds for Ms H until she made 
an online  instruction.  I also take into account  that once it had been made clear by Aviva that 
it wasnt going to do this for her Ms H still didnt  invest those funds. Ms H had been able to 
invest the 2018 funds in March 2018  so I consider she could have made the online 
instruction to invest the 2017 funds. Overall,  Im not persuaded on balance  that if the 
communication had been clearer and her complaint had been  investigated  more  quickly that 
her 2017  funds would have been  invested at any point.  So Ms H would be in the same  
position she is in now.
. 
But I do think Aviva  caused Ms H some trouble and upset. The business paid Ms H £200 in 
June 2018 for the level of service Ms H received and a further £100 for the delay in dealing 
with her complaint.  I consider £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms H 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont consider any further award  is 
warranted.
I appreciate that Ms H is disappointed that the monies she paid in in 2017 still havent been  
invested in her chosen fund. However the nature of this type of plan is that Ms H has the 
facility to do this herself. If this poses a difficulty then I would suggest she contact the 
business customer services for assistance.
I also note Ms H has complained that she has lost the investment return  on the 2017 
monies. Whilst its possible that there was some investment loss, I dont think Aviva can be 
held responsible for this for the reasons Ive explained above.
my final decision
My final decision is that Ms Hs complaint against  Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited is not 
upheld for the reasons outlined in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3350209