K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase  agreement  financed by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants 
compensation. Mr B is represented by his father but for ease of reading Ill just refer to Mr B.
background 
Mr B tells us he acquired the vehicle through a hire purchase agreement  in September  2016.
He says he started noticing a noise from the gearbox around  June 2017. He says these  
concerns were reported to VWFS in May 2018  and the gearbox  was replaced in June 2018.
Mr B states he still experienced problems after the gearbox had been  changed  - mainly  with 
fourth gear. And in August he says the fuel cap jammed.  Although  initially he wanted  to 
reject the vehicle he says he eventually decided  to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement 
and return the vehicle. Mr B also feels the overall  standard of customer service offered by 
VWFS was poor and that he was discriminated against due to his age. Although the 
agreement was terminated in September 2018 he reports there have also been  problems  
with the collections  process.
VWFS said that it did not think the problems Mr B experienced with the vehicle were  present 
at the point of supply.  And so it was not its responsibility to put them  right. It said the gearbox 
had been replaced under the vehicle warranty.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld - but only in part. In a very 
detailed view he explained he thought the faults  with the gearbox were most likely  due to 
poor maintenance. And he hadnt been  given any report regarding  the replacement  gearbox.
So he couldnt say there was anything  wrong with that. He also thought - given the time Mr B 
had been in possession of the vehicle - that the fuel cap was probably of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply.
But he did find that VWFS had incorrectly refused to discuss the case  with Mr Bs father. He 
said it wrongly believed  hed not had the required authorisation to act as his sons  
representative. He felt VWFS should  pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
VWFS agreed with the views of the investigator  but Mr B did not. He disputed the findings of 
the investigator about the gearbox, fuel cap and service issues.  As its not been possible to 
resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I should explain that Im not dealing with all the complaint points which Mr B 
has made. Some have arisen  during the course of his original  complaint.  I understand  these 
mostly refer to issues arising from difficulties around  the VT - including  delay in collection  
and charges for damage and excess mileage. I believe these are being considered under a 
new complaint and I only mention this to clarify the scope  of my own decision.
Im sorry  Mr B has not had the level of satisfaction  from his use of this vehicle that hed 
expected. And I accept  its disappointing  when things go wrong - particularly with a relatively 
new vehicle.
Ref: DRN34010462Ive been provided  with a lot of material in this case and if I dont mention every issue 
specifically its not because Ive not taken everything  on board. Its just that I dont think I 
need comment on it separately in order to reach what I think is the correct  decision.
I should also explain that where  evidence  is unclear  or incomplete - as some  of it is here - 
Im required  to make my decision  on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide  what  
I think is the most likely  explanation for whats happened.
Under present  legislation VWFS, as the supplier  of both finance  and the vehicle through  the 
hire purchase agreement,  is responsible  for the vehicle  being of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. And relevant legislation  
here includes the Consumer Rights Act, 2015  (CRA).
The vehicle was new when  supplied and Ive seen the subsequent service history as 
recorded by VWFS.  This shows  the vehicle was serviced in April 2017 - the mileage 
recorded is 20,737. In May 2018  the vehicle was inspected following a report  of noise from 
the gearbox - and the mileage recorded  was 53,106. And when the gearbox was replaced  
shortly afterwards the mileage was 53,744.
Satisfactory quality includes an element of durability. And Id expect, under normal  
circumstances, a gearbox on a new car to last longer - in terms both of timescale and 
mileage - than occurred here. 
Whilst theres some evidence about  the cause of failure, its not altogether clear - but for the 
purposes of this complaint I dont think I need  to resolve that point. Although I do note the 
above average mileage  covered and the fact that the recommended  service  schedule does 
not appear to have  been met.
VWFS replaced the gearbox and Im satisfied it acted fairly  in doing so. And whether it was 
replaced through a warranty or an acceptance that the consumer  had a valid claim under the 
CRA does  not seem  to me to make much  difference. 
As the gearbox  was replaced,  that would seem  to amount to either a valid discharge of a 
contractual obligation under the CRA  or the terms of the warranty.
And whilst I accept Mr B has complained about problems experienced after the gearbox 
replacement - and asked to reject  the vehicle - hes not provided  any persuasive evidence  or 
mechanics report in support of this. 
Similarly, the first report of the fuel cap fault is over two years from the date of supply. And in 
the absence of persuasive  evidence I cant say it was likely  to have been present at the point 
of supply.
I think the offer of £50 - for the error  which referred to the mix-up over the authorisation of Mr 
Bs father to discuss his account - is a fair and reasonable  settlement.
Ref: DRN34010463Regarding what  might be termed issues surrounding customer service  Ive see that several 
concerns have been raised. Im not sure why Mr B thinks hes suffered discrimination due to 
his age. Ive seen nothing to make  me think this might be the case. And the evidence  
suggests VWFS processed  Mr Bs complaint about  the gearbox in a reasonable time. It was 
just less than one month from notification to replacement - which I think shows the matter  
was dealt with properly. Ive also seen no evidence  that it was ever agreed a courtesy car 
should be provided. Whilst it might be preferable to do so - in the absence  of any contractual  
provision - it seems to me thats  a decision to be made between  the business  and its 
customers. 
I also saw it suggested  that VWFS  had offered compensation for certain issues about  its 
standard of customer service - and then withdrawn such offers.  Firstly, I cant  see any record 
of any such offers having been made. And Mr B has in any event said the offers were 
subject to him agreeing to drop the cases.  I assume  this refers to both this and his other 
complaint. 
Theres nothing unusual  or untoward in a business offering compensation which  is 
conditional upon a complaint not being  pursued. Its often the case  a business  might think an 
offer of compensation - even without admission of liability - is potentially a cost effective way 
of resolving certain disputes. So even if offers were made in the terms alleged  - and Im not 
finding they were  - as the conditions were not met, I couldnt say VWFS  would have done 
anything wrong  in withdrawing them  when  the complaints were continued.
Im aware it will come  as a disappointment  to Mr B but Im of the opinion  that the complaint 
should only be upheld  to the very limited extent  Ive indicated. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint but only in 
part.
Im ordering  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay £50 to Mr B for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3401046