K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited (Admiral) took too long to deal with 
a claim a third party brought against  his policy.
background
Admiral contacted Mr S in December 2017  to advise him that a third party had brought a 
claim against his policy  for an alleged incident  in September 2017.  Mr S disputed  any 
involvement in the incident, so Admiral let the third party  insurer know  the claim was being  
disputed. It arranged for his car to be inspected by an engineer to determine if there was any 
damage to the car. 
The inspection was carried out in March 2018,  and the report confirmed there  wasnt any 
damage present  on the car that was consistent with an accident and no sign of repairs. 
Admiral didnt act on this report when it received it.
Admiral sent Mr S a renewal notification in June 2018, the premium quoted was much higher  
than Mr S was expecting and so he contacted  Admiral. Admiral  then reviewed the report 
from the engineer  and closed the claim. It then recalculated the renewal quote significantly 
reducing it.
Mr S complained to Admiral, in summary  he was unhappy with the following:
Admiral, not dealing with and closing  the claim in a timely manner, even though he 
had called in to chase this at various points
Receiving the renewal  quotation  by email  only, as he says if he hadnt  seen it in time 
he wouldve paid more than he should
Admiral failed to update him through the process
He didnt receive a promised  call back from Admirals quality department
He said he had found the whole  situation  stressful and it had affected his health
Admiral agreed that it hadnt dealt with the claim in a timely manner. It also agreed that it 
should have communicated better  and called Mr S back  when he was promised a call. 
It didnt agree that it had done anything  wrong in regards to sending the renewal quotation  
by email, as it was sent it good time and before the renewal was due and so Mr S couldve  
chosen to cancel the automatic payment if hed wanted to.
It awarded £150 in compensation for its errors. 
Mr S didnt agree that Admiral had done enough to put things right and so brought the 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint; they felt that while Admiral had got things wrong  
the £150 it had awarded  Mr S as compensation was reasonable. Mr S disagreed and so the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
Ref: DRN34942452happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so I have to tell Mr S that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here and for broadly  the same reasons. So theres  not much I feel I can usefully add to what 
has already been  said.  I would  just add the following points.
I recognise that the receiving the higher quotation for the renewal of his policy  wouldve been  
shocking for Mr S. But as the claim was dealt with before his renewal was due, albeit later 
than it should  have been, there was no financial detriment here. So this only leaves me to 
decide if the compensation offered for the inconvenience and stress Admirals  delays and 
lack of communication caused was reasonable.
Mr S has told us that he made calls to Admiral to push the progression of the claim and that 
the whole  process  was time consuming and stressful for him. I dont doubt that it was 
frustrating and stressful but our role here is not to punish a business when it gets something 
wrong. We only ever recommend modest  awards, based on the impact the mistake caused 
and I havent seen anything here to indicate Admirals award of £150 was unreasonable  in 
the circumstances. It follows; I wont be asking Admiral to increase its offer of compensation. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with Admiral - can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494245