K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont  refund him for transactions  
he says he didnt make or allow anyone else to make.
background
Mr L is being represented by a solicitor,  but for clarity Ill refer to Mr L when referencing 
information or points  made on his behalf as well as from him directly.  All events referred  to 
are in 2017.
On 16 May, NatWest issued a letter to Mr L with 60 days notice of its intention  to close his 
accounts. Mr L says he didnt receive  this letter.
On 3 July, Mr L credited  his account £80,000  in addition to receiving other  funds. Mr L says 
hed put these funds aside for an upcoming investment opportunity and moved  them to 
spread his money across accounts to maximise  his protection from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
On the same  day, Mr L says he clicked on a link after seeing an advertisement for a webinar 
about investing in cryptocurrency. He initially said this was via email but has since  clarified  
he believes  his son sent him the link from a Twitter advertisement and they may have later 
emailed him. 
Mr L was asked to pay for this via an online banking transfer and proceeded to set up a new 
payee using his home PC and transferred £40. Mr L disputes nine payments totalling  
£53,000 made from his online banking to this same payee following this.
The disputed payments were all made using Mr Ls online banking  and appear  to have taken 
place from a mixture  of IP addresses  in the United Kingdom and Turkey.
Mr L has provided evidence that he flew outbound via Turkey  on 4 July and returned on 
10 July. He queried the activity in a webchat  on 11 July and in a call on 12 July. NatWest  
attempted to recover the funds but was only able to recover  £880.76.
Mr L has suggested some sort of key tracking malware must have been installed on his 
laptop and confirmed he took it, along  with his card, with him on his trip  hes suggested this 
may explain the location similarities.
Ref: DRN39811062The following  are all the online banking payments from this account in the relevant period, 
they are disputed and made to the alleged fraudster unless otherwise stated:
Date Time Amount Information about  the payment
17:50 £40 Undisputed  payment  to alleged fraudster
IP address 1, UK
21:32 £3,000 IP address  2, Turkey
21:53 £2,000 Undisputed payment to third party
IP address 1, UK3 July
23:17 £5,000 IP address  2, Turkey
00:55 £4,000 IP address  2, Turkey 4 July
16.03 £5,000 IP address  2, Turkey
5 July 17.37 £5,000 IP address 3, UK
6 July 14.46 £6,000 Close variation  of IP address 3, UK
7 July 17.32 £12,000 Close variation  of IP address 3, UK
15.15 £10,000 Close variation  of IP address 3, UK 11 July
22.29 £3,000 Close variation  of IP address 3, UK
Total £53,000
Mr L says that when he made a genuine  payment of £2,000  to his son on 3 July, he didnt 
notice the disputed £3,000 payment which  had recently taken place.
NatWest initially accepted Mr L was likely the victim  of a scam  but has since confirmed it 
thinks he did authorise the transactions. It highlighted that in order to make a payment 
online, the individual is required to enter a 10-digit customer  number,  followed by three 
characters from a four-digit PIN and three  from his password.  Further  NatWest says Mr L is 
a sophisticated  trader who regularly made  large  payments to and from his account, and 
normally regularly accesses his account.
The investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought Mr L had likely authorised the 
transactions, either by making some of them himself or allowing someone else to make them 
on his behalf.
Mr L didnt agree, he made several points  in particular: 
He provided a news article about a man who appears to have the same name as the 
recipient of Mr Ls disputed payments. This man admitted to attempting  to blackmail  
a large company. Mr L asserts that this individual is highly sophisticated and capable 
of installing undetectable key tracking software.
He referred to NatWests duty of care, the Payment Services Regulations  (PSRs) 
and the Contingent Reimbursement  Model  as part of why he thinks it would be 
appropriate for NatWest  to provide  a refunds and compensation.
He questioned how the last payment took place if it was after hed reported the fraud  
in the webchat.
He explained  he has a high net worth with over £260,000 into his account  and 
£240,000 out of the account and so he cant be expected to notice a £3,000 
payment.
He thought the activity including different locations and failed log-in  attempts should  
have appeared  suspicious to NatWest.
Ref: DRN39811063The matter  was passed to me to decide  and I asked for more information from Mr L, 
NatWest and the receiving bank   in particular:
Further details from both banks  about  the recovery aspect of Mr Ls funds and 
relevant information  about the receiving  account.
Further detail about what Mr L remembers happening at the time
A copy of the webchat from 11 July where  Mr L reported the fraud  and confirmation 
of timings.
Evidence of the time Mr Ls card was cancelled.
Terms  and conditions of the account  applicable at the time.
Shared one of the newspaper links with the banks involved and invited comment.
Asked NatWest whether it was prepared to reimburse the last disputed  payment of 
£3,000 when it appeared this took place during the webchat  where  Mr L reported  the 
transactions as fraud.
NatWest confirmed it was not prepared to offer to reimburse the £3,000 on the grounds  that 
it believed he was involved. The newspaper article didnt change its position  and it said it 
was an oversimplification  to conclude this third party had obtained his secure information 
because he was a hacker.  Both banks confirmed recovery  was sought on 12 July and 
available funds were  returned. 
The receiving bank  confirmed the account was not newly opened and there  were  no other 
reports of fraud in relation to it. Mr L confirmed he first found out about the payments when 
he returned from his trip and logged into his online banking.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 September 2020, explaining  why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint.  I said I thought it was reasonable that NatWest had concluded Mr L 
authorised the disputed  transactions.
Mr L didnt agree, he said:
Malware could have  been installed on his laptop on a previous trip without his 
knowledge. This would have enabled  the fraudster to obtain his full online banking 
log-in information over time.
He thought the newspaper articles  showed the individual at the heart of this fraud  
committing the same crime.
Mr Ls previous large payments dont mean he authorised these
Hes never allowed anyone to make payments on his behalf  and thinks  its beyond 
our scope  to assume he has done  so here
How and when the payments were made  is irrelevant, the loss remains, and he 
reported it as soon as he was aware.
Mr L not be held to the standards of a reasonable man, his talents and achievements 
exceed this  he shouldnt be punished for not noticing a £3,000  payment
He didnt agree the evidence was inconsistent with his version of events
That hes entitled to any payments  after the webchat or recovered.
If NatWest  had stopped some  of the payments, then that would have reduced his 
loss.
Ref: DRN39811064my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments - including Mr Ls response to my 
provisional decision - to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so I am not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Its important to highlight  that with cases like this I cant  know  for certain what has happened.  
So, I need to weigh  up the evidence  available and make my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. And determine what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
I agree  that the PSRs are relevant to this case and think the 2009 version is applicable  here. 
The account  terms and conditions are also pertinent  relevant sections say:
2.2.1 You authorise us to act on your instructions, even  if they create a debt on your 
account. You are responsible for payment of any debt which  arises  on your account.
2.2.2 Your instructions can be given in writing  (which must  include your signature(s)), by 
cash machine or, where we agree, by telephone, online, by contactless card, mobile 
message or by any other  means we tell you are available.  You must use the security 
procedures we notify you of from time to time
2.4 Protecting your account
You must:
(a) keep your PIN (personal identification number) and other security details secret; and
(b) tell us immediately  if you think someone else may know your security  details or if you 
suspect unauthorised use of your account
4.5.5. Where you have:
(a) allowed another person to make payments (other than someone that we have agreed 
may be allowed  to use your account); or  you will be responsible for all payments made in 
this way before you tell us that any transactions are unauthorised.
The PSRs  require a payment to be correctly authenticated and made with the customers  
consent in order  to be regarded as authorised. Here,  authenticated means the use of any 
procedure by which a payment service  provider is able to verify the use of a specific 
payment instrument, including its personalised security features. (Reg 60)
Consent must be given  in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between  
the payer and its payment service  provider.  (Reg 55(b))
NatWest has provided Mr Ls online banking records and confirmed its security process. 
These show his online  banking was accessed  in line their procedure  using his customer 
ID, and elements of his secure PIN and password. Mr L has confirmed he previously set up 
the payee. So, Im satisfied these payments were correctly authenticated  and that the form 
and procedure agreed between the parties  (as set out in the account terms) was completed. 
But this is not enough to say Mr L authorised  them.
Mr L has said there should have been two factor authentication  in place for these payments. 
Whilst Mr L did need to use his card and card reader to set up the payee,  once this was 
done NatWest  didnt require this for every payment. It isnt our role to set businesses  
security procedures  the Financial Conduct Authority is responsible  for regulating  NatWest  
 and there was not a requirement  for NatWest  to incorporate two factor authentication  for 
every online payment in place at the time. But I will go on to comment  on NatWests duty of 
care later.
Ref: DRN39811065Did Mr L authorise the payments?
With the above in mind,  I think the key question  here is whether Mr L, or someone that can 
be treated as acting  as his agent, made the transactions. I accept Mr L did not physically 
make all the disputed  payments himself  clearly the payments  originating  from different 
countries in a short  period of time (particularly  on 3 July) makes this improbable. And hes 
shown that he was on a flight for at least one of them. So, Ive considered  whether Mr L gave 
someone else his online  banking information on the understanding  that they would be able 
to make payments  on his behalf. And I think,  on balance, that he did.
I say this because:
Theres no persuasive explanation as to how an unauthorised third party  obtained 
Mr Ls online banking information.  Ive considered the possibility, as put forward  by 
Mr L, that his computer was hacked  and malware (such as key tracking software)  
was installed when  he clicked on a link. I dont think this is likely  given  no malware 
was found on his computer after he reported  the fraud and he isnt sure he clicked  on 
a link whilst  using that device. But even if a sophisticated fraudster were able to place 
undetectable malware on his computer, Mr L only logged into his online banking once 
that day (3 July)  before  the first disputed payment was made. Only partial secure 
information is used  which changes  at each log-in. Here different characters/digits 
were used  to authenticate  the log-in for the first disputed transaction from those Mr L 
had used earlier that day. Further to this, several other  combinations  were used to 
log on throughout the disputed payments and so its likely  Mr Ls full customer ID, 
password, and PIN were known. Ive gone on to consider his most  recent  suggestion 
that malware was installed  on his laptop at a previous date, enabling  the fraudster to 
collect this information over time. Unfortunately,  there isnt any evidence to support 
this theory and it doesnt explain  how there could be a connection between someone  
who had previously gained all of Mr Ls online  banking  information and the webinar  
he chose to purchase.
Mr L has provided little detail as to how a scam  may have unfolded. He hasnt been 
able to provide  a copy of the email  hes referred to and has repeatedly  confirmed he 
didnt share his online banking information.  Im also not aware  of any police 
involvement which you might expect given the amount lost.
Mr L credited the account with a significant amount of money  on the day the disputed 
payments began.  I understand  Mr L says this was in order to spread his funds across  
different banks. Whilst this is plausible,  the timing of this in light of the other  
circumstances suggests the deposits were linked to his intention  to make payments 
from this account.
A £3,000  payment had already been made  when  Mr L logged on to make a payment 
to his son. I understand Mr L says he didnt  see this and that he has a large turnover 
in his account. But I dont think this is a small amount of money and he would have 
seen his balance  earlier  in the day when  making  the £40 payment. Mr L is a self-
declared sophisticated investor  who doesnt  use others to help with his finances, so I 
think its fair to infer hed be aware  of what funds he was expecting  to come in and 
out of his account. I understand  Mr L doesnt agree with this, and feels  he is being 
punished for not noticing this. It isnt our role to punish either party,  and it is of course 
possible he simply didnt see it. But I think it is relevant and in light of the other 
evidence Ive set out, Im not persuaded he was unaware of this payment.
The pattern of the payments is inconsistent  with that of an unknown  fraudster  who 
with full access to Mr Ls online banking. Mr L had over £90,000 in his account at the 
time of the first disputed payment, yet only £8,000 is said to have been stolen in the 
first day. There are also large  gaps of up to three  days  between disputed  payments. 
Ref: DRN39811066More commonly a fraudster will try to take as much as they can, as quickly  as 
possible, before they are discovered  as delay risks their access being blocked. Mr L 
says that how and when the payments were made  is irrelevant. I dont agree; as part 
of my review into whether NatWest has fairly declined  Mr Ls request for a refund, 
Ive needed to consider whether its more likely than not the payments were 
authorised. This activity  is inconsistent with Mr Ls assertion that a third party made 
these payments without  his knowledge. If this was the case, the fraudster would have 
no way of knowing Mr L wouldnt  be logging onto his online banking during this time 
period.
Its a significant  coincidence  that some of the disputed payments originated from an 
area Mr L appears to have connections with  in terms of regularly travelling to the 
region.
Ive reviewed the news reports provided by Mr L about an individual with the same 
name as the payee here.  In summary  these  refer to a man who was convicted of 
attempting to blackmail a large  company by making a series of threats about 
accessing their customer accounts.  Its not certain that this is the same man, but 
more importantly, if I was to accept he was the same person, this wouldnt be enough 
in itself for me to uphold this case.
The similarities  in the cases  are rather loose and relate only to the general  nature of 
his involvement in an attempted cybercrime. I note the reports suggest  this criminal 
had overinflated his abilities  and accessed accounts previously compromised in 
unrelated events. One report says The NCA investigation also confirmed the 
findings of (company name) that there were no signs of a network  compromise. The 
data (man convicted)  claimed to have was actually  from previously  compromised 
third party.  The facts in these reports are quite different from what  Mr L thinks  
happened to him. And I dont find this persuasive  evidence  that Mr L was hacked by 
a highly sophisticated fraudster.
It would  also be unusual for a sophisticated  cybercriminal to share  his real name with 
his victims. Here the receiving account  was not newly opened and there  were  no 
other reports of fraud in relation  to the account. Whereas, the subject  of the news 
reports did attempt to keep his identity hidden and appears to have been  acting on 
behalf of a wider  group.
I agree  that Mr Ls history  of large payments  doesnt  mean  he authorised  these. My 
understanding is that NatWest would have raised this in relation to whether it ought  to have 
identified the disputed activity as suspicious  Ill go on to address this point  separately.
Did any payments take place after Mr L reported the fraud?
I note Mr Ls point that the last disputed payment appeared to have taken place after 
NatWest were on notice that he wanted  it to prevent further payments. The investigator  was 
initially informed that Mr L notified  NatWest an hour earlier than I now believe to be the case,  
Ill explain  why.
Reg 62 the PSRs  say
(3) of Except  where the payer has acted fraudulently, the payer  is not liable for any losses
incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment transaction -
(a) arising after notification 
The Webchat records show Mr L beginning the conversation at 22:08 and at 22:25 Mr L 
wrote please dont  let any more transfers  out. But when reviewing Mr Ls online banking  
records, I noticed that the IP address hed previously used for undisputed transactions  
Ref: DRN39811067wasnt accessed until 23:00 on 11 July. And that all previous log-ins  that day originated  from 
the IP address used to make the disputed  payments. Given the implications of this I asked  
NatWest to confirm what time Mr Ls card was cancelled  NatWest  confirmed this was at 
23:30 on 11 July. This correlates with the Webchat  which shows the adviser  offering at 22:26 
to cancel Mr Ls card immediately.
So, I think its more likely  than not that the Webchat records are an hour out. This could  be 
for many reasons and may be linked to some systems, but not all, reflecting the clocks 
changing for British  Summer Time. This would mean the last disputed payment was made 
before Mr L reported  any disputed  payments.
For clarity,  were I to make  the alternative finding  that Mr L had reported the fraud an hour 
earlier, this would be unlikely to impact the outcome here and would provide serious 
implications about  Mr Ls involvement in fraudulent  behaviour. This is because  there  would 
be no explanation  for how hed identified  the payments unless he had been  colluding  with 
those who made them.  So, while it would be clearer if this evidence were  more certain, 
NatWest has accepted this is likely the case and it is not to Mr Ls detriment to interpret  it in 
this way.
Is there  any other reason it would be fair to uphold this complaint?
My finding  is that it is reasonable for NatWest to have  concluded  these payments were  made  
either by Mr L or someone acting on his behalf.  This isnt out of the scope of our Service,  
rather this determination  is central  to my consideration of this complaint.
Its possible someone acting as Mr Ls agent exceeded the scope of what  they had agreed 
but I have no way to determine this. I dont think NatWest would be liable for an agent  of 
Mr L going beyond  their separate agreement with Mr L  any payments would still be 
authorised until Mr L took steps to remove their authority to act on his behalf  by removing 
their ability to make payments - as he did when  he contacted NatWest on 11 July.
Turning to Mr Ls points  about NatWests duty of care and the suspicious nature of the 
activity on the account. I agree that it may well have been appropriate for NatWest to identify 
some of the activity as potentially fraudulent; there  were multiple log ins to Mr Ls online 
banking from different countries in a short period of time,  in conjunction with a series  of large 
payments to a relatively new payee.  
His previous account  activity is relevant  to determining  at what point the activity would have 
appeared unusual. In the circumstances I dont think  it would help for me to identify the point 
at which  I thought it would be reasonable to expect NatWest to have contacted  Mr L to verify 
the payments.  I take Mr Ls point that any payments prevented would have reduced his loss. 
However, I have already  found that it was reasonable for NatWest  to conclude Mr L 
authorised these payments. So, without knowing what  Mr L had agreed  to, it would be 
completely speculative for me to comment on what  would have happened if NatWest had 
contacted him or to attempt  to determine whether this would have made a difference. Its 
quite possible he would  have confirmed they were  genuine at the time.
Other points raised  by Mr L.
In relation to Mr Ls references to the Contingent Reimbursement Model  this was not in
place until May 2019 and isnt retrospective,  so I dont  think its relevant here.
Ref: DRN39811068Ive considered Mr Ls points in relation  to regulations 63 and 64 of the PSRs  - refunds  for 
payment transactions initiated by or through a payee. I dont think these are relevant either. 
The disputed payments were initiated  by the payer  account via online banking  also known as 
push payments rather than by the payee  i.e. pull payments, for example a direct  debit.
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  think  it would be fair or reasonable to make  an 
award in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Stephanie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3981106