K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains on behalf  of the estate  of the late Mr W (her uncle).  She says The Royal  
Bank of Scotland allowed unauthorised transactions from his account.
Mrs D asked this service  to look into a number of historical transactions  dating  back  to 2006 
 but the investigator has explained  that the rules  governing this service only allow us to look 
into complaints about events which  have  occurred in the last six years.
So, this decision is about disputed transactions from 2012 onwards.
background
Mrs D says that between  2012 and 2018,  just over £44,000 of transactions were carried  out 
on her uncles account without his authority. He had moved into sheltered accommodation in 
2006 and there he was befriended  by a woman.  Mrs D says this womans  son and daughter  
in law  who I will call J and D  managed to gain access to Mr Ws account and use it for 
their own benefit and financial gain.
A large  number of ATM transactions were  made  over this period, along with payments to 
credit cards not held in Mr Ws name.  I can see a bankers draft was also issued, some  point 
of sale transactions  and some online betting transactions.
Mrs D says her uncle  was vulnerable and that RBS should not have allowed these 
transactions.  She said RBS should  have  picked up on the fact that something was not right.  
Mrs D refers to medical evidence submitted dated March 2018 which advises Mr W lacked 
the capacity to conduct his financial matters.  She submits his condition  would have 
deteriorated prior to the diagnosis in March  2018.
When Mrs D complained  to RBS, it did not uphold her complaint.   It said it does have a fraud 
detection system in place but nothing  was triggered by the spending on Mr Ws account. It 
acknowledged it had held a meeting with Mr W in branch early in 2017   but J was with him 
and despite being asked  to have the meeting in private,  Mr W invited J into the room too.
But Mrs D further submits  that the branch  manager at Mr Ws local branch was in no doubt 
that J and D were involved in the theft of Mr Ws money  and she has accordingly  reported 
them to the police.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt  think he could ask RBS to do anymore.  So,  
Mrs D made  further submissions and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
authority
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators'  rules, guidance and standards,
codes of practice and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
Ref: DRN33351922In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals which a customer authorises  it to make.  This is in accordance  with the 
Payment Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers  account. I have 
taken this into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Mrs D was not privy to any conversations Mr W may have had with J and D (or even Js 
mother).  And sadly, we can no longer ask Mr W as he passed away in February 2019. So, 
my role is to decide what I think is most likely to have happened  and whether, having made 
that decision, I can fairly hold RBS liable for these transactions.
I can see that there are some transactions to credit  cards  which  were not in Mr Ws name  
and a small amount  spent  on an online  betting  site. But the vast amount of disputed 
transactions relate to ATM withdrawals.   I think this suggests Mr W may have been 
benefitting from at least some of the transactions  because I have seen no other  evidence  
to suggest his living expenses were being  met from another source.
There may be some transactions on the account  which were not physically carried out by Mr 
W  but Mrs D acknowledges  that he had previously given J his card and PIN.  So,  if he did 
give J authority to use his account and J used these  as an extension of his authority, then 
RBS is entitled  to treat the activity  as being  authorised.
I know Mrs D feels strongly that Mr W was taken advantage of.  She says he must have 
lacked capacity before March 2018.   But Ive not seen any diagnosis before March 2018  and 
in any event, I cant see that Mrs D had placed  RBS on notice before that about her uncles 
condition.
Its accepted Js mother  had conduct  of Mr Ws financial affairs  since  2006  so I think its 
difficult for us to know the basis of any agreement Mr W might have had in place with her or 
indeed J and D.  Given that uncertainty, I dont think it would be fair for RBS to be held 
responsible for these  transactions on the basis that Mr W did not authorise them.
triggers
There are circumstances  however, irrespective  of the payment channel used, where a bank
should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks,
before processing  a payment.   In some cases it should decline to make a payment 
altogether to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether RBS acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings
with Mr W when these payments debited his account  or whether it should have done more
than it did.
Mrs D submits it should have done  more.   But I have  commented above  about the meeting 
held in branch  with Mr W.  He had taken J along  with him and I understand he often 
introduced him and D as family members.  RBS staff had attempted to speak to Mr W in 
private about his finances  but Mr W allowed J into the meeting.  Branch staff appeared to 
suggest that J had a detailed knowledge  of Mr Ws finances.
So, I dont think Im persuaded  RBS could have done any more for Mr W.  I know  Mrs D 
disagrees and as I have  already said, has referred the matter to the police. An investigation 
is currently ongoing with regards a fraud allegation   with the case having  been passed to 
Ref: DRN33351923the prosecuting  authorities.  I note from the police officer concerned  that the charge relates 
to just over £31,000  and not the £44,000  which this service  has considered.
But a criminal prosecution  or investigation  is in relation to the individual actions of J and D 
and Js mother.   My role is to decide  on whether I think  RBS has done  anything wrong here 
and for the reasons I have  given,  I dont think it has.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D (on behalf 
of the estate of the late Mr W) to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3335192