K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that he was given unsuitable  advice by Cheshire Trafford UK Limited (CT) to 
transfer deferred benefits from an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP).  
background 
Mr T had deferred benefits in an OPS from a former employer.  At age 55 he wanted to start 
accessing his retirement  benefits from the scheme and sought financial advice. In March  
2015 CT recommended  Mr T to transfer from his OPS to a flexible drawdown pension so 
that he could access a larger tax-free  cash lump  sum and access  income  more  flexibly.  He 
was also advised  to use the services  of a discretionary fund manager (DFM). 
In 2019 Mr T complained  to CT as he was unhappy with the advice he had been  given.  He 
said the costs of the SIPP and the risks of giving up guaranteed benefits in the OPS  had not 
been fully explained. After  CT rejected his complaint he referred  his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ts complaint.  He found that Mr T didnt need additional tax-free 
cash and given his limited investment experience he wasnt  convinced Mr T required the 
services of a DFM  which added additional  costs. Mr T had a cautious  attitude to risk and it 
was unlikely he could  achieve the returns needed to match his OPS  benefits. 
So overall he didnt  think the transfer  was in Mr Ts best interest  and he asked CT to 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review  methodology, as amended by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  in October 2017 and compensate Mr T accordingly if there 
was a loss.
Both Mr T and CT accepted the investigators  assessment  in November 2019. CT explained 
that they had a contract with the previous owner  of the firm to say he was liable for any 
business conducted before 2017  when the business  was purchased,  so they needed to 
liaise with him.
In January 2020 CT informed Mr T that they had outsourced the redress  calculations to a 
third party. In May 2020, the redress was calculated  as £98,823.61 if paid to Mr T directly.
CT explained that their legal team prevented them  from paying  the redress until they were 
able to reclaim the funds from the previous owner.
The calculations were  only valid for three months, so when a payment hadnt been made by 
August, CT requested updated calculations from the third party.  A second  report  was issued  
on 20 October which calculated the redress as £94,886.27. The redress figure reduced 
because Mr Ts new pension  arrangement had since increased in value and he had taken  
more regular income from the plan that he would have received from his OPS scheme.
As CT still hasnt paid the redress, Mr T asked for an ombudsmans  decision  on his 
complaint, so it was referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32215662I agree  with the investigators findings  that the advice given to Mr T was unsuitable. As CT 
has already accepted these findings  and taken  responsibility for this complaint, Im not going 
to comment on this in more detail.
The reason  why this complaint hasnt been  resolved yet is that the calculated redress  hasnt 
been paid. I do understand  that CT is trying to pursue the previous owner  of the firm for the 
redress before they make  payment  to Mr T. 
However, CT accepted  the investigators findings  over a year ago and have committed to 
paying the redress. Its not fair to Mr T that internal proceedings with the previous owner lead 
to continued delays. The figures  are calculated and so I dont think its fair to delay redress  
payment any further.
The calculations are only valid for three months from the time they were presented to the 
consumer. So when  the redress hadnt been paid three months  after the first calculation  in 
May, CT asked the third party for recalculated  redress figures.  I dont think  this was unfair.  
They were  following redress guidelines and using updated assumptions and interest as well 
as updated values for Mr Ts pension was intended to ensure he wasnt  disadvantaged.  If 
the value in his pension  for example had dropped since the calculation in May, then the 
redress figure would now potentially be higher. In this case, it turns out Mr Ts pension has 
increased in value so thats one of the reasons the redress is lower.
I appreciate that Mr T feels  CT should  honour  the first redress calculation because if CT 
hadnt delayed  the payment, he wouldve got the higher sum several months  ago. However, 
whilst I agree the delays  were unreasonable, I think paying the updated sum is fair in the 
circumstances as it puts Mr T as close as possible in the position he would be in now if he 
hadnt transferred  his pension. It also includes additional interest accumulated since the first 
calculations. Paying the higher sum now would be overcompensating him.
putting things right
For the reasons  set out above I request CT to:
Pay Mr T the sum of £94,886.27 as per their latest redress calculations.
CT must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell them  Mr T 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
According to the relevant regulators guidance  on redress  for unsuitable OPS  transfer  
cases, redress calculations are valid for three  months from the date of issue to the 
consumer. Im not sure when exactly Mr T (or his representative)  was provided with 
the latest calculations, but from emails Ive seen  it must have been  between 
26 October and 6 November 2020.  So as I see it the calculations will lose validity at 
some point between  the end of January and the beginning  of February  2020.  
CT should  pay Mr T before this. 
However, if redress hasnt been  paid within three months of Mr T receiving the 
calculations, I think for expediency no further calculation  should be completed  unless  
Mr T requests this. Before  CT pays the redress they should ask Mr T if he would like 
Ref: DRN32215663a new calculation. If he does, the result  of the updated calculation should be paid to 
Mr T (whether it is lower  or higher than £94,886.27).  
Any late interest  payment  at 8% simple per year as set out above should  be based 
on the compensation amount of £94,886.27.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Cheshire Trafford UK Limited  to pay Mr T the compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 January 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3221566