K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted  unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with 
his mortgage.  He wants the interest hes paid for credit cards refunded as he wouldnt have 
needed the cards if the mortgage arrears  were lower. Mr W also wants compensation for 
waiting for a final response letter  from HSBC.
background
Mr W had three mortgages with HSBC (jointly  with his ex-wife), and got into arrears.  A court 
order about the arrears  was made,  ordering Mr W to pay extra each month  to clear the 
arrears over time. In October 2018, he said that he found out in a call with HSBC that hed 
been overpaying above  that required by the court order on his mortgages and that the 
overpayments hadnt been used to reduce  his arrears. Mr W felt this failure contributed  to his 
credit rating and that HSBC shouldve reduced  his arrears using the overpayments. Mr W 
also said that HSBC  told him that he could capitalise his arrears  (add them to the mortgage 
balance), but later said that he couldnt  do so as his ex-wife needed to agree.
Mr W complained  to HSBC; it didnt send a final response letter within the eight weeks  
period given for it to do so. But it denied that Mr W had overpaid above  the amount  ordered  
by the court  in the suspended possession order; Mr W had paid the correct amount under 
the order. HSBC  said that due to an earlier complaint fees had been refunded, which  
reduced the arrears,  and interest was also refunded.
HSBC noted that in 2014 Mr W had paid £410.15 into the wrong mortgage, so it had 
transferred the money to the right account, but hadnt updated the arrears balance for the 
wrong mortgage account to increase the amount owed as a result of the transfer.  Due to the 
passage of time, HSBC  wrote off the money  it shouldve claimed earlier  from Mr W 
(£410.15). All of these transactions meant that while Mr W hadnt overpaid, the arrears 
balance had reduced  this meant that Mr W was further ahead in clearing the arrears  than 
when the court order was made  (but still in arrears), but he hadnt  overpaid as he had to 
comply with the court order. HSBC said that this meant that Mr W wasnt owed any money 
and HSBC apologised if Mr W had mis-understood what  had happened  due to the 
explanation it had given him over the phone in October 2018. It also apologised for the delay 
in responding  to his complaint and the two day delay in calling him back about the 
capitalisation of arrears and sent £25 of vouchers (it offered  to send another  £25 but Mr W 
said hed return them, so HSBC didnt send the extra vouchers  it offered £50 cash).
Mr W complained  to us. The adjudicators  view was that Mr W hadnt  overpaid and had 
misunderstood what HSBC was telling him in October 2018 when it said he was ahead of 
schedule. She thought HSBC shouldve explained that Mr W had to pay extra  due to the 
court order.  The adjudicator also said that HSBC didnt call when it promised. She said that 
Mr W didnt suffer financial  loss and the compensation offered by HSBC  was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W disagreed.  He said that if he was ahead in clearing the arrears, the money should  be 
returned to him. Mr W also raised  the point about the refusal to capitalise the arrears and 
didnt think HSBC should be allowed to reply late to a complaint. Mr W wasnt  happy  about 
how the court order worked either. The adjudicator explained that she didnt think HSBC  had 
acted unfairly in relation to the refusal to capitalise  the arrears as Mr Ws ex-wife needed to 
agree to any change  to the mortgage.  She also clarified what  HSBC  had offered to resolve 
Ref: DRN39227022the complaint.  Mr W responded that he wanted  me to listen  to the  telephone call of October 
2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and think all the evidence  necessary to 
fairly deal with this complaint has been  gathered.  Theres no dispute  over the call in October 
2018; the argument is about what was meant when HSBC used the term ahead of 
schedule. Mr W thinks hes paid too much; HSBC says the phrase is a reference to Mr W 
having more towards  the arrears than expected when the court  order and payment plan was 
put in place due to later account adjustments. The core of this complaint is about this issue,  
not about the actual call in October 2018.
Its helpful if I explain about the role of this service  and the final response letter. Complaints  
handling isnt a regulated  activity within the jurisdiction of this service,  though  we can look at 
whether a business has generally acted fairly and reasonably. And business arent required 
to send a final response  letter within eight weeks; sometimes more  time is required. The 
eight week period is simply how long a consumer must wait after complaining before coming 
to this service. I will look at HSBCs  conduct generally dealing  with Mr W, but Im not able to 
punish it for taking  the necessary time to consider  a complex complaint.
Having considered the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that Mr W hasnt overpaid. 
What has happened  is as HSBC has explained  Mr W is legally required to pay an extra 
£137.10 a month under  the terms of the suspended  court  order,  but hes further ahead in 
clearing the arrears than expected due to the various adjustments made  to the arrears  
balance by HSBC  due to complaints (and an error  made in Mr Ws favour when he paid 
£410.15 into the wrong account).
If Mr W wanted to ask the court to change the order to reduce his monthly additional 
payments, that is a matter for him but theres  no requirement on HSBC to take such  action,  
particularly as Mr W is still in arrears.  And while the order is in place, Mr W must comply  with 
it and make the extra payments and this service  cant interfere with such  an order. But I dont 
think Mr W has suffered  any financial loss (quite the contrary as hes benefitted from HSBCs 
mistake) or that his credit records were unfairly  or unreasonably affected. And due to the 
arrears, I dont  think HSBC is acting unfairly  or unreasonably in not paying Mr W any money 
and allowing him to increase the arrears.  Its fair and reasonable to pay refunds of fees to 
the mortgage account when its in arrears.
Mr W is unhappy about HSBCs policy about capitalisation of arrears.  But his ex-wife is a 
party to the mortgages. No change  to the mortgage can be made without her consent. It 
doesnt matter  if she isnt on the title of the property; shes  a party to the mortgage.
HSBC accepts that it couldve dealt with Mr Ws complaint better  and it delayed  two days to 
call as promised about the capitalisation of arrears. I dont think  a short  delay in returning  a 
call as promised is so unfair or unreasonable that compensation is justified; Mr W had been 
in arrears for several  years and two working days made no difference. And I can see that the 
final response letter was delayed slightly by an administrative error. I also think  that HSBC  
couldve explained much  better what had happened; phrases such  as ahead of schedule  
are confusing to consumers, particularly when theres a suspended possession order in 
place.
Ref: DRN39227023Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, but bearing in mind the evidence and 
this services guidelines I think the offer from HSBC  is fair and reasonable. £75 (including the 
£25 vouchers received) reflects  the trouble and upset caused to Mr W by the unfair and 
unreasonable element of the delay in responding to the complaint and the confusing original 
explanation given by HSBC.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr W to accept any 
unpaid element of the offer made  by HSBC UK Bank  Plc. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
10 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3922702