K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that she was mis-sold a motor  insurance policy by esure Insurance Limited 
as it didnt replace  her stolen car with a new model  as shed expected. Mr G represents her. 
background
The policy that insured the new car Mrs P got in May 2018  offered the market  value for most 
cars that were stolen  and not recovered. But it said a new car of the same  make and model 
would be provided  in some circumstances.  The stolen car had to be less than a year old and 
the policy holder  or their partner  had to be its first and only owner  and registered  keeper. 
The policy also said a new replacement car must  be available  and that anyone  who had an 
interest in the car must agree to it. It said if a replacement car wasnt  available, it would pay 
either the price  the policy holder had paid for the car or the latest manufacturers list price.
Mrs P expected to get a brand new replacement car. But esure  noted  that the car was on 
finance, so the finance  company had an interest in it. The finance company wouldnt agree 
to like for like replacements  - although other finance companies did. That meant the policy  
term allowing esure to provide a new car didnt  apply. Mrs P thought  that as a new car 
replacement wasnt possible, esure  should give her the sum shed paid for her stolen car, or 
the manufacturers latest list price. But esure  said that option only applied  when the 
conditions for getting a new replacement car were  met.  
Mrs P said esure should have told her at the outset that she would never be eligible for a 
new replacement car, given the make of car shed bought. So the policy was never suitable 
for her. Mrs P and Mr G also thought the policy wording was misleading.  
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Ps complaint. She didnt think esure had mis-sold 
the policy. She said it gave Mrs P no advice. Given the policy  terms and conditions,  the 
investigator thought  it was fair for esure  not to offer Mrs P a new car (or the price shed paid 
for the stolen one). She said the finance  company  - not Mrs P - owned the car, so that part of 
the policy term wasnt met, either. She didnt  think  it was fair to expect esure  to inform a 
consumer that having  a particular type of vehicle  meant they wouldnt be eligible for a new 
car replacement. She said there were too many variables to make that viable. But she 
thought the policy was clear about the limitations  that applied to the new car option.  
Mr G asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mrs P and Mr G are mistaken in believing that the make of the car Mrs P bought  could 
never have  fitted  the new car replacement  criteria. I think the new car option  would have 
applied to the car had it been financed by a different company that had no objection  to it.
In my opinion, the policy terms clearly  state that anyone with an interest in the car must 
agree to a new replacement. The wording  is as follows:
We can only do this if theres a replacement  car available in Great Britain  or the Isle of Man 
and anyone who has an interest in your car agrees.
Ref: DRN36027312The finance  company provided most  of the money for the cars purchase. Despite that, I 
understand why Mrs P told esure  she was the cars owner. I think many  consumers would 
have done the same. But I think its fair to say Mrs P should have been  aware  that (given its 
financial investment  in it) the finance  company had an interest  in the car. Mrs P and Mr G 
say it was very important  for Mrs P to have the new car replacement  option. So I would have  
expected her to have  read the relevant policy  wording carefully. Mrs P could have  queried  
what having an interest in the car meant, if necessary. 
 
I dont think Mrs P can show that esure mis-sold  the policy. It was already  in place to cover 
the previous car. It doesnt appear  that the new car replacement term was relevant  to that 
car. And when Mrs P called esure to change the insured car she didnt refer to it. 
Mrs P said esure knew she wouldnt be eligible for a new car replacement before she 
insured the new car. So she thinks it should  automatically have  told her that when she added  
it to the policy. Its clear that esure  knew the make of Mrs Ps new car. But we asked it when 
it became aware  that the car was financed, as I think  thats the relevant issue here. esure 
said Mrs P didnt mention  it until 21 May 2019, after the car was stolen.  So it wasnt aware  of 
the finance on the car until then, let alone  the name  of the particular finance provider. 
 
In my opinion, esure set out the limitations on the new car term clearly enough. I dont think  
an insurer can be expected to include every eventuality in the policy  wording.  In my view 
esure wasnt required to highlight that a particular finance provider wouldnt agree to the new 
car term.  As I think the wording was clear  enough, I dont agree that esures  to blame  for 
Mrs P not buying GAP  insurance, as she and Mr G have suggested.  
Mr G says esure should at least have  given Mrs P the sum shed paid for the car. But I think 
its clear that the option of such a payment only exists when a policy  holder is eligible for a 
new car replacement, but one cant  be found. This is the policy  wording on the point:
If a suitable car isnt available well pay you the price you paid for your car and all its 
accessories or the latest manufacturers list price (including taxes)   whichever is less.
Mr G says its confusing that elsewhere  in the policy, the wording says esure wont  pay more 
than the market value for a car. But I dont think that conflicts with the new replacement  car 
wording. The policy provides a market value payment for most cars that are stolen  and not 
recovered. Only cars that fit the criteria for new car replacement are treated differently.
Mrs P says that when  she spoke  to one of esures  advisors he told her the policy wasnt fit 
for purpose.  Ive listened to the call, in which the advisor says the policy wording will be 
reviewed  along with everything else. Although its clear  that he sympathised greatly with 
Mrs Ps situation, I dont think what he said meant he shared her view of the policy  wording.    
I have great  sympathy  for Mrs Ps situation.  Her car was stolen as a result of a burglary and 
was only one of many items that were  taken. I think that would have made  the loss of the car 
even more upsetting than it would  normally have been. It would have been a further  blow to 
then find that the policy  was only going  to provide the cars market value. But as I dont think  
esure acted  unreasonably  in making its decision, I cant uphold Mrs Ps complaint.   
Ref: DRN36027313my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3602731