K820x#14complaint
Mrs Fs complaint is about two loans she took with Harvey and Thompson Limited (H&T).  
Mrs F says these  loans were unaffordable.
background
H&T provided Mrs F with two instalment loans between November 2017 and April 2018. The 
loans are detailed  below:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Payment
1 20/11/2017 04/12/2017 3 £100.00 £43.17
2 17/04/2018 Outstanding 6 £100.00 £28.46
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Fs case and didnt think H&T needed to do anymore when 
providing the two loans  to Mrs F. He said that H&T had gathered  an appropriate  amount of 
information about Mrs F and the information it gathered  didnt reveal anything of concern for 
these two loans.  Mrs F disagreed, she explained  that she was dependent  on short term 
lending and she was struggling financially. She also referred to her previous bankruptcy 
which she says H&T shouldve taken  into account.  
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I dont  think H&T has treated Mrs F unfairly  or that 
it should pay her compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs F and Id 
like to explain why I think this is the case.
Mrs F was provided with two high-interest  loans, intended for short-term use. So H&T 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that H&T needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mrs F before  providing  it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN32594802In her complaint Mrs F says that the loans were given to her irresponsibly. She says she had 
serious financial issues and a gambling addiction.  She says that H&T shouldve seen this 
and realised the loans were  inappropriate for her. H&T says that it carried  out adequate 
checks  by gathering  details  of Mrs Fs income  and expenditure. It also says it carried out a 
credit check.  And based on this H&T says it didnt  see anything to alert it to any sustainability 
or affordability issues for the loans  it gave Mrs F.
Its important to note that when Mrs F took out her first loan with H&T it doesnt seem  that 
she had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid over three 
instalments of around £43.17. Mrs F had told H&T that her monthly income was around 
£1,800. Loan 2 was taken out once loan 1 had been  repaid and the payments were  spread 
over six instalments. H&T carried out similar checks on Mrs F and it seems her income and 
expenditure was similar  to what it was for loan 1. And I cant see anything to suggest  that 
H&T had reason to question the information  it had about Mrs F.
Looking at the monthly repayments in light of Mr Fs declared disposable income its difficult 
for me to conclude  that H&T was wrong to decide  that the repayments would be affordable  
sustainably for Mrs F. I note what she says about  using loans to repay  existing loans. I can 
see from the credit check carried out that Mrs F did have a number of short-term loans in the 
months before applying  for this loan. But most  of these  had been  paid off and although 
Mrs F had a negative entry about a previous loan this wouldnt be enough for H&T to 
question her situation, especially given the amount  she was borrowing. 
Mrs F has also told us she was made  bankrupt in 2011. This did come up on the credit 
check carried out by H&T. As it looks as though  bankruptcy was over six years before loan 1 
was issued I dont  think this would have informed  H&T about the issues she was 
experiencing at the time. Mrs F has also provided details of the discharge order  and the 
restrictions it imposed. But it seems these restrictions were removed over a year before she 
took out loan 1. So although this information  was available to H&T, I dont think  there were 
adequate signs  within it which  shouldve led H&T to do more checks. And as this was early  
on in the lending relationship, Ive not seen  enough  evidence to persuade me that H&T acted 
irresponsibly in the circumstances of Mrs Fs case.
I appreciate this is not the outcome Mrs F was hoping for, and I appreciate  she had 
experienced difficulties, both financially and mentally. But I hope my decision clearly sets out 
why I dont think H&T needed to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Harvey  & Thompson 
Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3259480