K820x#14complaint
The representatives of the estate of the late Mr M complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
(BoI) should have  recommended adding his daughter, Mrs F, along with his wife, Mrs M, as 
additional lives assured on the bond  set up in 2002.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 18 January 2019  in which I set out why I didnt  feel this complaint should  be 
upheld. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mrs F, one of the representatives of Mr Ms estate responded, saying:
The fact find completed  by the advisor  noted  that Mr M was an inexperienced 
investor and, as such, had a duty of care to ensure that he was aware of the options  
available and the benefits available  from the course of action  recommended
One of the main  benefits of an investment bond  is that it can be set outside the 
estate re any potential care fees that may become due. There is no additional charge 
for this
Since this was not noted in the fact find, the assumption has to be that it was never 
mentioned and Mr M was not made aware  of this option
It was a simple action to have  had her and her mothers name added to the policy
Taking funds from the bond was never required; hence it was left to grow
Her mother has/had  excess funds  each month  (till the cost of care depleted her 
assets) so there  was no justification for the calculations about her income  needs
Putting her, Mrs Fs name  on the bond  would  not have put her ahead of her mothers 
needs but given them the option  to decide what was best in the future as 
circumstances changed - as clearly  has happened in her family
Her father could  have  changed his will but he was not aware he couldve written  the 
bond with additional  lives so didnt know that changing his will was an option
He was not a sophisticated investor  and it is the duty of the advisor to outline his 
options - which  he clearly failed to do. Her father  didnt  know  what  he didnt know
The bond has not been  cashed  in while this complaint has been  made.  Therefore  the 
provider would not need to set up a new one but simply  be instructed to add her 
name to it, thereby  avoiding the need  to encash it
BoI said that only £7,000 was invested  in the bond which  is the subject of this complaint, 
with the remaining £13,000 invested in products not complained about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  Mrs Fs concerns about what she feels  the advisor ought to have done. But 
in my view,  much  of this can only be said with hindsight  there not being  sufficient,  
conclusive evidence to say that it was obvious  ought to have explored the additional lives 
assured issue back in 2002.
Ref: DRN31054902As I explained in my provisional decision,  in order to uphold this complaint I need to be pretty  
certain that Mr M definitely wanted  this money  to go to his daughter after his death, and I 
dont share  Mrs Fs interpretation of the key reference to this issue in the Suitability Letter.
I simply dont  believe  the evidence clearly indicates  what she and the estate allege in terms 
of Mr Ms key objectives.
So while I think the advisor could have explored whether Mr M might want  to add other  lives 
to the policy  I dont think he necessarily ought  to have done. I dont think the advice he did 
give was clearly inappropriate.
While Mr M was not a sophisticated investor  I dont believe this means he was not able to 
makes decisions about whom he wanted to be the beneficiaries of his will. As has been  
accepted, he made  a will in 1999,  leaving his estate to his wife. I see no reason why he 
would not have realised that this meant the proceeds of the bond,  taken out several years 
later, would also go to his wife.
I can also think of no convincing reason why he would have thought  he couldnt change his 
will subsequently  to leave the bond  to his daughter  if hed wanted. I cant see why 
agreeing to set up the bond in his sole name  wouldve led him to conclude that he couldnt 
also choose to leave the proceeds to his daughter  by amending  the will.
That said,  I am not saying  I am in a position to guess Mr Ms intentions.  Its merely  an 
additional reason why I dont think there  is sufficient  evidence  to conclude that BoI definitely 
did something wrong and that Mr M would definitely  have  put his daughter  as a life assured 
on the bond if this option  had been  outlined.
I note that the bond has not been encashed but I still believe there  would be serious  
problems with, in effect,  seeking to remove it from Mr Ms estate for IHT assessment. 
However, this was not a consideration in concluding  that this complaint should not be 
upheld.
It was not clear to me whether this complaint also encompassed the Stocks and Shares ISA. 
However, if BoI are sure that it solely concerns the £7,000 in the Zurich bond, I apologise for 
that error.  But in my assessment  I did consider  whether  there was sufficient evidence  to 
conclude that Mr M ought to have been  advised  to ensure Mrs F was a named life assured 
on any of the invested  £20,000 products including the Zurich  bond. In other words, this 
decision also covers any potential separate complaint  about  this issue in relation to the ISA.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31054903provisional decision
complaint
The representatives  of the estate of the late Mr M complain that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc should have  
recommended adding his daughter, Mrs F, along with his wife, Mrs M, as additional lives assured on 
the bond  set up in 2002.
background
In 2002 the late Mr M invested  £20,000  in a bond where  he was the sole life assured  and the 
policyholder. His will, which he wrote in 1999, left his estate to his wife (according to the available 
information) assuming she died before him. This advice meant that Mrs M would  receive the bond in 
these circumstances.
By the time Mr M died in 2018 his wife was in a care home  and responsible  for her own fees. So in 
practice the value of the bond was/is  most likely to be taken/used to pay for these fees. If Mrs M 
and/or Mrs F had been set up as a life assured the bond would not need to be surrendered and the 
local authority  would not be entitled to insist  on its proceeds. 
An adjudicator at this service thought the complaint should be upheld as he felt it was clear from the 
documentation that Mr M was looking to provide  financially for his daughter and her family (as well as 
retaining access to some  income himself). He said that it was normal for spouses to say that the 
investment was for their mutual benefit,  wanting the bond to go to the surviving spouse. Therefore, in 
his view, it was highly significant  that the advisor had recorded that Mr Ms main objective was for this 
investment to ultimately benefit his daughter rather than his wife.
He felt that Bank of Ireland  should have recommended  making Mr Ms daughter a life assured, along  
with his wife, which would have meant the bond did not have to be surrendered when he died.
He thought the monies  paid out under the bond  should now be returned to the Bank of Ireland (by Mrs 
M) and it should then reinstate the bond. The monies  should be adjusted  to reflect the value the policy  
would now hold if it had not been surrendered. Mr Ms daughter should then be registered as a/the life 
assured under the bond.
Bank of Ireland rejected this, and said:
In the Personal Financial Review it was established that Mr M had a monthly income of 
£790.00 including  £550.00 from a company pension  and £240.00  from a state  one
Upon his death, the private  pension would have been reduced to 50% as a widows pension. 
This would  have paid Mrs M £395.00 per month
Mr and Mrs Ms total essential monthly spending was given as £430.00 which would  therefore  
result in a deficit  of £35.00 per month
While  every parent would usually  want to leave  something to their children  this is not at the 
expense of leaving  their spouse in financial difficulty
Leaving money to his daughter was not even  Mr Ms first priority; she came behind  his wish to 
have more to spend on holidays. It is difficult to believe Mr M would  have put the needs of his 
daughter above those of his wife
If it had really been his intention for his daughter  to have had the money before his wife he 
could have  included her as a joint applicant  at the time or have had the investment written in 
trust or added  a codicil to his Will; he did none  of these things
The adjudicator said that Mr Ms daughter should have  become the life assured but the key 
wording says your daughter and her family so presumably this would mean her two 
daughters plus any further extended family  should also have  been beneficiaries. In 2002 Mrs 
F had two daughters  who may well now have had children of their own.  Whatever 
interpretation one uses it does not say that he wanted all the proceeds to go to his daughter
Ref: DRN31054904The report  and recommendations documents  give a generic overview of matters at the time 
and is not a legally  binding document
Mrs M confirmed  that she didnt  want to be involved  in the advice process. The advice could 
therefore only be given  to Mr M.
Mr M could have changed his will to make  provision for his wider  family  
He was happy  with the advice as evidenced by the fact that he didnt touch the monies after 
that time
There were  plenty  of opportunities to review  the bonds status during the following 16 years.  It 
offered a review which  was not taken up
If Mrs F was concerned  about the money going to her mother this is something she should  
have discussed with her father  when  she first went into care
In response Mrs F said:
Her mother was in receipt of her own private and state pensions, so her income  was 
satisfactory
Two years on from this advice the advisor  recommended that Mrs M invest some of her 
money in the same  bond, also solely  in her own name; again  without considering the obvious 
alternatives
If the bond had been written in her fathers and mothers names  along  with her name  this 
would have  provided  appropriate flexibility,  allowing  her mother  to access this money if 
necessary but still be of benefit to her, the daughter, which was her fathers objective
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
For reasons I shall outline I do not believe this complaint should  be upheld. Even if I felt it should  be, I 
am certain  that I could  not instruct Bank of Ireland to instruct it to do what Mrs F wants.
Firstly, its important to explain that my role is to decide whether a business clearly did something 
wrong, not whether  it might  have done things differently (such as made a different recommendation).  
Given this, I do not think there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that the advisor clearly offered  
poor or unsuitable advice.
From what Ive read I do not agree that there is sufficient evidence to safely  say that Mr Ms prime or 
overwhelming priority was necessarily to ensure that all this money would  go to his daughter after his 
death. The advisors  report records  that Mr M wanted access to this money, via income  payments, for 
various potential purchases such  as holidays and that he also wanted the option of one-off 
withdrawals. So it was far from clear that this money would stay untouched till his death.  While the 
advisors notes refer to Mr M wanting to benefit his daughter and her family this could mean via one-
off or income  withdrawals,  not simply through receiving the final value of the bond.
I also think  that Mr M, despite not having any investment  experience, would have understood when he 
made his Will the previous year that choosing  to leave his assets solely to his wife (in the event  that 
he died first) meant  just that. I accept that the advisor  could have  pointed out that he would  need to 
add his daughter as a life assured if he definitely wanted any residual value  from the bond to go to her 
rather than his wife. But I am not persuaded that he needed to do this. I also do not believe, based on 
the Will Mr M had just made, that he would necessarily have done this if this had been explained.
I also do not feel Bank of Ireland can be held responsible for Mr M choosing, by default, not to revisit 
this issue  after his wife sadly had to go into a care home.
I recognise that what has occurred  is highly unfortunate and fully understand Mrs Fs frustration and 
disappointment that this money may be simply  swept up by the local authority. But I am not 
persuaded that Bank of Ireland is to blame  for this.
Ref: DRN31054905Crucially, even if I felt this complaint should be upheld  I do not believe  that I could instruct  Bank of 
Ireland to do what is proposed.
Firstly, Mrs F, as the executor of Mr Ms estate, is bringing  this complaint on behalf of her father (and 
his estate). He is the legitimate complainant  under the rules governing this service, and she is in 
effect acting  on his behalf.  What this means is she and the estate must demonstrate that Mr M/his 
estate has suffered  financially as a result of Bank of Irelands alleged mistake in order for me to 
contemplate awarding  compensation.  And such compensation could only be made  to the complainant 
i.e. Mr Ms estate.
Mr Ms estate  has clearly not suffered financially  as a result of the alleged mistake as the residual  
value of the bond has gone to the estate,  and this value  has not been affected by the absence of Mrs 
M as a life assured. So it, the estate,  has not suffered any loss. I fully understand that this may feel 
like semantics but I can only operate within the remit and powers set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Further, I do not believe  I have the power  to instruct Bank of Ireland to take back the money, 
reactivate the bond and add Mrs F as a life assured.  I am also not persuaded that it would  undertake 
such action given the obvious  risk that the local authority might consider this an attempt to deprive it 
of assets  it is legally entitled  to. In my view if the authority  discovered  this had happened it would 
more likely  than not that it would view this as an illegitimate deprivation of assets  under  the Care Act 
of 2014.
my provisional  decision
I currently do not intend  to uphold this complaint.  
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3105490