K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  Unum  Ltds decision  to decline her claim under her employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
background
Miss B was a member of her employers  group  income  protection insurance policy,  held with 
Unum. The policy would  pay a regular benefit,  after a deferred  period of 28 weeks, if Miss B 
was unable to perform her occupation  due to illness or injury.
In August  2018,  Miss B stopped working due to ill-health. In September 2018, Miss B was 
diagnosed with a heart  condition. She underwent  urgent  open-heart surgery to replace a 
heart valve. She was kept in hospital  for two weeks before being discharged.
By March 2019, when  the deferred  period  was due to end, Miss B still hadnt  returned to 
work. She made a claim under her policy. However,  Unum declined the claim. It considered 
that Miss B hadnt shown she was medically  prevented from performing her occupation.
Miss B appealed  against Unums decision. However, Unum wouldnt change  this. Miss B 
therefore referred her complaint to us.
After obtaining  further medical  information, our investigator recommended that the complaint  
should not be upheld. In her opinion, the medical  evidence didnt support that Miss B was 
still incapacitated by the time the deferred  period ended.
Miss B didnt accept  the investigators  findings. She said shed been advised  by her treating 
specialists to remain off work for six months following her operation.  She considered  the 
medical evidence  supported  that she remained incapacitated until April 2019, when she 
began a gradual return to work. She outlined  the various symptoms which had prevented her 
from working and said that she was still experiencing health issues  related to the operation  
even though shed now returned to full-time working.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint, I shall explain  why.
Under the terms of the policy, to be eligible for benefit Miss B needs  to demonstrate that she 
was medically unable to perform  the material and substantial duties of her occupation 
throughout the deferred period, which lasted from her first absence in August 2018  until 
March 2019.
There is no doubt that at the start of this period Miss B met this requirement. She was 
diagnosed with a dangerous heart condition and needed to undergo urgent surgery. The 
dispute is over the date at which Miss B was sufficiently recovered  from this surgery  that she 
should reasonably have  been expected to commence a return to work.
Ref: DRN30892312Miss B says that she was told by her original treating specialists that she should  not return  to 
work for six months following the operation. She considers that her current treating 
cardiologist (Dr M) supports  her case.  She has pointed to the fact that her GP continued  to 
sign her as unfit to work throughout the period  in question and that her employers 
occupation health consultant agreed she should  remain off during this time. She has 
described the various symptoms from which she was suffering  - including chest pains,  
breathlessness, dizziness, extreme fatigue  and vision problems - which  she says meant she 
couldnt have  gone back to work.
However, there is nothing  in Miss Bs medical records  to show that she was ever told she 
needed to take six months  off work following the operation. And Unum  considered  the typical  
recovery from this type of operation, bearing in mind that Miss Bs role was largely 
sedentary, was six to eight weeks.
Unums view seems  to be supported  by the hospital  medical evidence  which  showed  that 
after being  discharged from hospital  in September 2018, Miss B returned to the cardiology 
department in November 2018 to undergo a review by a registrar. The registrar  reported:
[Miss B] currently feels well She is able to walk on the flat ground for 30 minutes  and she is 
nearly back to her normal activities. 
The registrars comments suggest  there  was nothing to prevent Miss B from imminently  
attempting a return to work.
The investigator sought comments from Dr B, the consultant cardiac surgeon who had 
carried out the operation in September 2018.  Dr B confirmed  that he could find no reference 
in the medical  files to indicate that Miss B was advised to take six months off work.  He 
stated:
 our usual advice is for a 6-8 weeks to recovery, unless there are other reasons to 
prolong this time. In this case, in reviewing the notes I could not find any exceptional 
circumstances to be considered.
Miss B asked that we consider the views of her current consultant cardiologist, Dr M. He has 
advised that in view of Miss Bs particular circumstances, he would expected she would have 
needed to remain  off work for at least three months  following her operation. He has further  
said that in view of her ongoing  symptom  of breathlessness, her recovery might have been 
further delayed.  However,  Dr M stopped short of saying that Miss B would definitely have 
needed six months off work following her operation and I also have to take account  of the 
fact that he did not start treating Miss B until June 2019 which  was nine months  after her 
operation and by which  time she was already back at work.  For this reason, I dont find 
Dr Ms comments  to be persuasive  in showing that Miss B was still incapacitated at the end 
of the deferred  period in March 2019.
In light of the comments by Dr B and the registrar, I would assume  that Miss B should have 
been able to commence a return to work  by December 2018 unless there was good  
evidence of particular  factors which  prevented her from doing so.
In November 2019, Miss B saw her employers occupational health  physician, Dr T. He said 
that Miss B was unfit to work and was likely  to remain  so until the New Year. He said:  she 
has a number of significant symptoms which are affecting her function. However, he 
specifically mentioned only one symptom and that was her low mood,  which he considered 
Ref: DRN30892313was understandable  in light of the significant  health issue she had faced. He noted that 
Miss B was receiving counselling.
In January 2019, Miss B was discharged from telephone counselling at her own request. 
There had been  an improvement in her mental  state  and she decided she no longer needed 
the therapy.  
In February 2019,  Miss B was seen again by Dr T. He said she reported  some  ongoing 
fatigue and was emotionally up and down. He noted  that she intended taking her accrued 
annual leave  before  returning  to work towards the end of March 2019.  He supported this 
course of action. However,  I dont really understand why Dr T thought  Miss B was unable to 
return to work immediately. There is no mention of ongoing fatigue in her other medical 
notes; the closest  reference  is that in January 2019 she told her GP that she was breathless 
after moderate exertion but I dont see that this should necessarily have prevented her from 
performing her occupation. And as for emotional  volatility, bearing in mind she had 
discharged herself  from counselling, I dont consider she has shown this was so significant 
as to prevent  her from working.
I recognise that Miss Bs GP continued to certify her as unfit to work until April 2019. The 
reason given was that Miss B was still recovering from her operation.  However, its not clear 
from the GPs notes  as to what functional limitations were preventing Miss B from working.
Miss B has highlighted various symptoms which she says meant she was unable to return  to 
work before she did. However, I consider there  is a lack of evidence to indicate that these 
symptoms were of such significance that they functionally prevented  her from commencing a 
return to work before  the end of the deferred period in March 2018.
Overall, and having paid particular attention to the comments  of Dr B and the registrar  who 
were Miss Bs treating specialists at the relevant time, I consider it was fair for Unum  to 
decline Miss Bs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3089231