K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  with a car 
loan in 2001. The car was bought  through  a dealership but Aviva  Insurance Limited is now 
responsible for the PPI sale. Ill therefore  refer mainly to Aviva throughout this decision.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in November 2019,  setting  out why I 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive comprehensively  reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, neither party 
has sent me anything which fundamentally affects what I think,  so theres  no reason for me 
to change the findings I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, so Aviva  Insurance Limited doesnt have to pay Mr B any 
money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35479172summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B complained he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy with a car loan in 
2001. The car was bought through  a dealership  but Aviva Insurance Limited is now responsible for 
this sale.  Ill therefore refer mainly to Aviva throughout this decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators  looked  into this complaint  and said it ought  to be upheld.  Aviva disagreed  and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Im not intending to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I recognise this will be 
disappointing for him.
the complaint point made by Mr B.
Its clear, and indeed understandable, that Mr B doesnt remember much about the sale. He has no 
recollection of ever agreeing to PPI and says he didnt even  know he had it. I completely accept this is 
his honest and genuine  view now, but this sale was 18 years ago and its obviously possible he just 
doesnt remember because  of the passage of time.
Neither he nor Aviva could produce the original credit agreement but Aviva did send us examples of 
the types of documents used  during these particular sales in 2001. Weve seen a few similar  
complaints relating to the same company and the documentation  Aviva has sent in does seem  to be 
the same.  So I feel I can rely on what weve been sent as being the same documents Mr B will have 
probably seen during  the sale.
Looking at the agreement,  I can see ways  in which  it could have more clearly set out. But there is a 
large and prominent section on the form which says AGREEMENT FOR OPTIONAL  INSURANCE. 
Below this it sets out the cost of Payment Protection Insurance. 
Aviva also sent in a Customer  Declaration Form which shows  Mr B was probably presented with an 
option about having PPI. He would have been asked to tick the box if he wanted this type of cover 
and sign the form at the bottom. I think these things show that he consented to the PPI and was able 
to see, at two stages in the process,  that it was optional. He would have been able to see PPI was 
being set up on his agreement and that it came with a cost. 
I think  he agreed to the cover.
cost disclosure
The second  relevant issue is what our adjudicator noticed about  the cost of the PPI and how it was 
presented to Mr B. 
The type of PPI sold to Mr B was a single premium policy. This means the whole amount of the PPI 
had to be paid for up-front in one single  payment. So as well as his car loan, Mr B was lent the 
money to also pay for the PPI. And like his car-loan, the PPI part of the loan attracted interest over the 
53 month term. 
Ref: DRN35479173I dont think the agreement layout was without flaws. In particular, the costs could have been set out 
more comprehensively. However, the part of the form Ive described above did still show the basic 
cost of the PPI and it also showed the overall  interest he would have been asked to pay over the full 
term. It added  these  together and displayed  them  as a monthly cost to Mr B. So whilst there were 
some shortfalls on certain details, I do think Mr B would  have had a good idea of all the costs he 
faced.
I also think  Mr B would have been sent or given some information about  the cover by the insurer. This 
part may well have  been  after the sale but Im afraid it makes Mr Bs assertion about never  knowing 
he had PPI somewhat inconsistent.
 
Given there were certain shortcomings I went on to assess whether these  would have changed  
anything Mr B went on to do  would he have still bought  the policy?  
I think  he would. 
The evidence  tends to show  he probably  wanted PPI with his loan and I think  Aviva obtained his 
consent. I think he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we 
sometimes see in these policies. Looking  at the work he did, I think  any sick pay Mr B would have  had 
would have been quite  moderate, so in the event of a successful claim the PPI could  have been 
useful in helping  to pay his finance commitments.
Its true Mr B wouldnt have received a fully proportionate refund on the PPI if hed cashed it in early, 
but theres no evidence he would have been likely to do this. 
summary
Collectively, the example  documents  we have from the sale tend to show there was a reasonably 
lengthy discussion about the PPI and although Mr B doesnt remember this now,  he would  have most  
probably known at the time.  There is good evidence  to support this.
I think  he would have also been able to see that the overall insurance  costs were  significant  amounts. 
This is because they added,  considerably, to the overall  cost he was being  asked to pay and he would 
have been able to see this on the finance agreement he signed.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold  so I dont think  Ill be asking Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr B any money back. 
However, Ill look very carefully at any other information, arguments or evidence either party wants to 
send me before I issue my final decision. This needs to be done by 7 November 2019
Ref: DRN3547917