K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that One Call Insurance Services  Limited  unfairly cancelled her car 
insurance policy. 
background
Mrs K bought a car insurance policy  with One Call in September  2018. It asked Mrs K to 
provide a copy of her driving licence along  with proof of her No Claims Bonus (NCB).
It didnt receive a copy of Mrs Ks driving  licence so it cancelled her policy in October 2018. 
Two days later Mrs K was unfortunately involved in an accident with another vehicle and 
called One Call. She said she didnt know it had cancelled her policy. 
Mrs K complained. She said she made  a note of speaking to One Call in September 2018 
where shed explained that her driving licence was with the DVLA to update her address. As 
she received letters  from One Call after this date, she assumed all was well and didnt 
expect it to cancel  her policy. 
One Call said it had given  Mrs K notice of cancellation because it didnt receive the 
documents it asked  for when she bought the policy. It didnt have a record  of a call from 
Mrs K as she described. It said if it had discussed  the licence issue with her, it may have 
agreed to an extension before it cancelled her policy. 
Our investigator asked  Mrs K if she could provide any proof shed called One Call in 
September 2018 to discuss the licence  issue.  Mrs K hasnt provided  any. 
Our investigator thought that One Call had followed its cancellation  process correctly and in 
line with the policy.  As Mrs K said shed received its cancellation notice, she didnt 
recommend her complaint should be upheld.  
Mrs K didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs K bought the policy  with One Call, it provided her with an activation link by email 
to access her insurance documents and a welcome letter.  And when Mrs K applied for the 
policy online, she was asked to upload her driving  licence then. 
On 15 September  2018  the day Mrs Ks policy started  One Call said that it needed 
Mrs Ks driving licence and proof of her NCB.  This was in bold under the following heading:  
Required Documentation - Please be aware that your policy may be cancelled  if the 
required documentation  is not returned  to us within seven  days.  
On 21 September  2018 One Call sent Mrs K a 14 day cancellation notice as it hadnt  
received a copy of her driving licence. Mrs K said she received this letter.  However, she said 
she called  One Call on the next working day  24 September 2018. 
Ref: DRN30256152Mrs K said she struggles with remembering things  sometimes  and so she cant  recollect 
the call. But shed made a note to say that shed called One Call on 24 September  2018 to 
explain that she was waiting for the DVLA to return her licence in order to forward  a copy to 
One Call.
On 28 September  2018 One Call sent Mrs K a seven day cancellation notice  letter. Mrs K 
said she didnt receive this. But One Call has provided a copy  of the letter and its addressed  
in the same way as the letter dated  21 September 2018. And its also provided a screenshot  
of its system notes which shows the date when the letter was sent.  So Im satisfied that One 
Call sent it and I cant hold One Call responsible for any possible postal issues. 
One Call cancelled Mrs Ks policy on 7 October 2018. It sent a confirmation letter  to her on 
9 October 2018. I know Mrs K believes this was too late. But as it had already provided clear 
and sufficient notice  of the cancellation  date on 21 and 28 September  2018,  I cant say that 
One Call acted unreasonably here. 
When Mrs K called One Call in October 2018,  it said it had a note of an agent calling 
Mrs K as a courtesy call to discuss  her policy. This call took place on 24 September  2018  
the same  day as Mrs K made a note that shed called One Call. Its notes said that Mrs K had 
asked One Call to call her back later as she was at work. It said it had no record of either the 
agent calling  Mrs K back  or Mrs K calling it. So One Call said it didnt know there was an 
issue with Mrs Ks licence before it cancelled her policy. 
In Mrs Ks policy information booklet, One Call explained that it would cancel  her policy  if it 
didnt receive requested  documents.  And it would  do this by first giving Mrs K notice by 
letter. 
I do understand how upset Mrs K is about One Calls decision to cancel her policy. But I 
think its shown that it followed its cancellation process correctly as it gave Mrs K clear notice 
that if it didnt receive the requested documents by 7 October 2018, it would cancel her 
policy. 
There isnt anything to show me that Mrs K called One Call on 24 September  2018. I agree 
that One Call didnt call Mrs K back as its notes  said the agent  would. But as there  was no 
discussion between the agent and Mrs K in the first call (because it wasnt  a convenient 
time) I cant say that this made a difference. This is because it didnt change the fact that 
One Call had given  Mrs K notice of what it needed in order to prevent her policy  from being 
cancelled on 7 October 2018.
Mrs K feels  that we have  been biased and are in favour of One Call. Ive taken an even 
handed approach when  considering all of the available evidence. And weve  given Mrs K the 
opportunity to provide evidence to support her account that she called One Call on 
24 September 2018. So based on what Ive seen, I cant conclude that One Call acted 
unreasonably. I understand Mrs K will be disappointed. But this means that Im not upholding 
her complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN30256153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3025615