K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) has handled his subsidence 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
background
Mr M had a home insurance  policy which was underwritten by Aviva.  Both Mr M and Aviva  
are aware of the background to this complaint. Its substantial given the nature of the claim 
and the length of time its been  going on for. There have been a number of reports  from 
various experts as to the cause  of the subsidence  and the damage  attributable to it. So 
rather than setting out in detail what both parties  are already well versed in, Ive summarised 
whats happened.
In 2002, Mr M made a claim for subsidence. He said theres been cracking and distortion to 
his property since 2002 and thats  it affected both the front and rear of his property. A 
consultant of Aviva attended Mr Ms property at the time and reported the cause  of 
subsidence as being due to the ground  beneath  the foundations at the front of the property 
consolidating  which in turn allowed the bay structure to rotate forwards and downwards.
The consultant recommended underpinning, superstructure repairs  and redecoration works. 
But Mr M didnt agree  with the scope of the works  he said it didnt include repairing 
damage to the rear of his property. The consultant however, said the damage at the rear of 
was due to general  age related dilapidation, not subsidence.
In August  2006,  Aviva offered Mr M a cash settlement  totalling  £21,652.83  to allow  him to 
arrange his own contractor to complete the works,  but it said it didnt hear back  from Mr M. A 
cheque was sent to Mr M the following June. 
In 2010, Mr M contacted  Aviva as he was concerned that the damage  to his property was 
becoming worse. A loss adjuster was appointed on behalf  of Aviva and repeated the cash  
settlement offered, but Mr M said it was insufficient  for the works  required. 
In January 2012, Mr M contacted Aviva  to complain about how his claim was being handled. 
Aviva said itd made every effort to settle the claim.  It said thered been  long periods of time 
when Aviva and its loss adjusters had been  unable to get in contact  with Mr M. 
The next time Aviva heard  from Mr M was in April 2017 when he raised concerns that the 
damage to his property  was becoming  worse. He said the local authority had been in touch  
with him about  the poor structural condition  of his property. And he explained that hed been  
suffering from ill health which prevented him from contacting Aviva  sooner.
In May 2017, the consultant whod visited Mr Ms property in 2002  attended  his property 
again. He concluded that the condition of Mr Ms property was not significantly different to 
that observed during his visit in 2002. The exception to this being the front bay of the 
property  which had worsened due to weathering  and also deteriorated as a result of lack of 
care. The consultant said thered been  very little change  to the rear of the property since 
2002. He said the damaged at the rear wasnt related to movement and was instead age 
related - or a result of defective render.
Ref: DRN38420972Mr M disagreed. He said there was a significant  leak of foul sewer waste at the rear of the 
property which was responsible for the damage. Mr M said there  was damp within the cellar 
and this was as a result  of a leaking sewer. While the consultant  noted  there  wasnt  a foul 
smell, he did acknowledge that thered been disturbance in the road outside Mr Ms property 
which may evidence  some repairs to the sewer. He recommended a further investigation be 
carried out regarding  the positon  of the drains  and whether  there were  any leaks under the 
property, particularly as Mr M insisted that leaking  drains were the cause of the problem. 
Following the consultants report, Aviva  cancelled Mr Ms policy.  It said Mr M had failed to 
cooperate with Aviva and hadnt kept his property in good condition,  which it said was a 
condition of the policy.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. He said Aviva hadnt carried  out a proper investigation as 
to the cause of the subsidence, and that it had ignored the leaking drains which he says has 
seriously affected his whole house.  He disputes that the cash  settlement adequately covers  
the works  required.
Initially when our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint she said there wasnt enough 
information to support  his complaint that the subsidence was caused by a leaking drain. 
Following this, Mr M provided three separate expert reports, all of whom said it was possible 
that pipe work  be it that belonging to Mr M or the local water authority  was leaking. The 
three experts each  recommended that further  investigation be carried out.
In light of the conflicting reports from Mr M and Aviva, our investigator recommended that 
Aviva appoint an independent expert to identify the cause  of the subsidence  and correlating 
damage. Aviva agreed it would identify three independent experts for Mr M to choose from. It 
asked that the written  instructions to the expert be agreed between  it and Mr M, and that the 
fees be shared  equally  as its a joint report.   
Mr M initially agreed with this resolution but subsequently changed his mind.  And so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says his entire property has been  affected and that leaking pipework is part of the 
cause. Conversely, Aviva say that only the front of Mr Ms property has been  affected and 
that this is attributable to historical movement,  not leaking  pipes. 
Although there are various  experts reports, they are contradictory. So Im unable  to make  a 
decision as to the cause of the subsidence  and the damage attributable to it. This in turn 
means I cant decide whether the settlement offered by Aviva is fair. So instead, I need to 
decide a way forward for Aviva and Mr M. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined  period  of time.  But where theres  a lot of damage and remedial works, things 
will obviously take longer.  This is particularly relevant in Mr Ms case,  as its not unusual  for 
subsidence claims to span over months and years.
Ref: DRN38420973There are however, other  factors which have contributed to the length  of time Mr Ms claim  
has been going on for. One of which is long periods  of inactivity,  over several  years. From 
what Ive seen, it seems Mr M was only prompted  to contact Aviva when he became 
concerned that the condition of his property was worsening. Though  I acknowledge his 
health concerns  may also played  a part in his lack of contact
Nonetheless Aviva  did offer to settle  the claim, and having looked  at the policy  this was 
something it was entitled to do. But Mr M didnt accept its offer.  Aviva  has since agreed, 
following our investigators  view, to appoint an independent expert to identify the cause and 
extent of the damage. And so I need  to decide  whether  this is fair. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr Ms property is in a poor structural state  and this has been  
confirmed by his local council writing to him to express its concern at the condition  of his 
property. So its in his interest that this claim is resolved as soon as possible.  
As the current expert reports are contradictory and there isnt a mutually  agreed cause of the 
damage, I think a final independent report is required to bring finality  to the situation. With 
this in mind,  I am satisfied  that an expert needs  to report on the issues  to move  the claim 
forward. So Aviva must  identify three independent experts and given Mr M the choice to 
appoint one of these. Im satisfied thats a reasonable way of moving things forwards.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
If its not already  done so, Aviva Insurance  Limited must:
identify three independent  experts and share the relevant details with Mr M so he can 
appoint one expert,
together with Mr M, agree written  instructions on which the appointed expert  will carry 
out their investigation,
pay half the costs  incurred in relation to the appointed expert.  However, if the cause 
of the damage  at the rear of the property is found to be subsidence, Aviva should pay 
the full cost.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3842097