K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as CASH4UNOW.CO.UK)  lent him money that 
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr A took out two loans with CASH4UNOW. The first in March 2017  for £500 was repayable 
in six monthly instalments  of about £132 each. Mr A took out a second loan for £400 in 
September 2017 that he was due to repay  by six monthly instalments of about £113.
Mr A says he was caught in a spiral of debt,  using one payday  lender to repay another.  Mr A 
wants CASH4UNOW to let him repay  the debt by small  instalments. Mr A wants 
CASH4UNOW to refund the interest that he has paid on the loans.
CASH4UNOW says that Mr A told it that his net monthly income was £3,243 with monthly 
outgoings including regular and payday  lending  commitments of £2,238 before loan one and 
£1,433 before loan two.
CASH4UNOW says it carried out adequate checks.  It points out that Mr A has repaid both 
loans.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld.  He thought that 
CASH4UNOWs checks went far enough before agreeing both loans. The adjudicator 
thought that based on the information Mr A gave, both loans appeared affordable.
Mr A is unhappy with the adjudicators recommendation.  He says that he can prove  he 
couldnt afford the payments. Mr A says that he was in financial trouble and that 
CASH4UNOW took advantage of that. Mr A has listed a number of other  short term loan 
repayments that he was due to make in the month  following  loan one and then loan two.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Before agreeing to lend to Mr A, CASH4UNOW had to make  sure that he could afford to 
repay each  loan. Affordability checks  should  be proportionate. What  is proportionate 
depends on things  like  but not limited to  the size of the loan, the repayments, what 
CASH4UNOW knew about Mr A, and the things  he told it about  his circumstances.
It was early on in Mr As lending history  with CASH4UNOW and the monthly repayments 
represented a very modest proportion of his declared monthly income of more  than £3,240. 
Usually I would have  said that it was reasonable of CASH4UNOW  to rely on Mr As income 
figure alone to decide to lend. However,  CASH4UNOW also carried out credit checks that 
revealed outstanding loan and credit card balances.
CASH4UNOW asked Mr A for details of his living costs  and credit  commitments, including  
payday loans.  The credit commitment figures that CASH4UNOW says Mr A declared dont 
seem at odds with the credit search  results.  
Ref: DRN32651862There wasnt any evidence of late or missing payments  on the credit search and no defaults. 
I consider it was reasonable of CASH4UNOW to have a degree of confidence that Mr A had 
given it accurate financial information.  I wouldnt have expected CASH4UNOW to go as far 
as trying to independently verify  the financial information that Mr A gave  by asking to see 
bank statements for example. 
Overall, I think CASH4UNOW did enough  to assess whether the loans were affordable. 
Although Mr As true financial situation  was worse than he declared  to CASH4UNOW, I dont 
think what I consider was a proportionate check wouldve revealed this.
Based on what it knew about Mr A, I cant find CASH4UNOW was wrong to agree the loans. 
It follows that I dont require it to pay compensation or remove  any information about  the 
loans from Mr As credit file. Im sorry that this is likely  to come as a disappointment. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3265186