K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that AIG Europe Limited  turned down  a claim made under his personal 
accident policy.
background
Mr S made a claim under  his policy after fracturing his shoulder blade. AIG said this injury  
wasnt covered by the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She agreed with AIG that Mr Ss 
injury wasnt covered by the policy. She didnt  agree with Mr S that the policy  terms were  
unclear. 
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators findings, so the matters been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy provides cover for physical injury caused by an accident which results in: - death,  
permanent disability, full thickness burns,  fractures, and hospitalisation or convalescence. 
The table of benefits in the policy provides  more  information about  what is specifically 
covered. With regards to fractures, the policy covers:
1 Fracture or fractures to the elbow, wrist or one or more bones of the arm (humerus, 
radius and ulna bones).
2 Fracture or fractures to the ankle or one or more bones of the leg (femur, patella, 
tibia and fibula  bones).
Mr S had a fractured scapula (shoulder  blade). That isnt listed  under the table  of benefits as 
a fracture covered by the policy. Im therefore satisfied it was correct  for AIG to tell Mr S his 
injury wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr S made the point  to AIG that fracturing the scapula is more  severe  than some  of the 
fractures listed in the table  of benefits. That may well be the case, however its up to AIG 
what injuries it covers under the policy. The policy doesnt cover  fractures  to every bone in 
the body, it only covers specific bones, and these are clearly  listed. 
Mr S thinks  the scapula is a bone of the arm, and because the policy says bones of the arm 
are covered,  then the policy is unclear and it should pay the claim. 
Although Mr S thinks the scapula is a bone  of the arm, I dont necessarily  agree. Hes 
referred to a website which says the scapula is an upper arm bone, but this isnt a medical 
website. 
Regardless, the policy clearly lists those  bones that it considers to be bones of the arm. That 
list doesnt include the scapula.  
Ref: DRN38478272I therefore dont  require AIG to accept Mr Ss claim.  
Ive noted Mr S says he had to have surgery as a result of his fracture.  I dont know if Mr S 
stayed overnight when he had the surgery, but his policy  does cover  overnight stays in 
hospital. Therefore  if he did stay overnight, he may wish to contact AIG about  making  a 
claim under the hospitalisation  section of cover (if he hasnt already done so). 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3847827