K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her an income protection insurance 
policy.
background
In 1993, Mrs D took out the policy through Lloyds. It would pay benefit, after a waiting period 
of six months, if Mrs D was unable to work due to illness or injury.
In 2000, the policy lapsed.
In 2018, Mrs D complained that the policy had been mis-sold. She said shed been  told she 
had to take out the policy to obtain  a mortgage for which she was applying at the time.  She 
said she hadnt needed the policy because her employer paid her generous sickness benefit  
and she also had savings.  She said she hadnt  been given sufficient information, including 
about the amount of commission which Lloyds earned from the sale, to make  an informed 
decision. She asked  for a complete refund of her premiums.
Lloyds didnt uphold  her complaint. Mrs D therefore  referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, the 
policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mrs D didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She said she clearly remembered expressing 
concern to the adviser that the policy was too expensive and hed told her shed be able to 
claim the cost back through tax relief.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Lloyds has been  able to provide only limited documentation from the time of sale but given 
that Mrs D didnt make her complaint until twenty  five years later, and eighteen years  after 
the policy had lapsed, I dont find this surprising.
The application form which Mrs D signed records that she wanted to receive benefit of £253  
a month. This was an eligible  amount  under the policy terms given her stated income.  The 
form also records that Mrs D received six months full sickness pay from her employer; she 
didnt mention any proportionate  sickness pay beyond this period.  The policy was set up to 
pay benefit from the end of this six month  period which  I find appropriate. I havent seen any 
evidence to show her level of savings but I dont think this would necessarily mean  that she 
wouldnt wish to protect her income  in any case. 
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the key features document which it says would have been 
provided to Mrs D at the time. Although I have no way of verifying this, I think it likely that this 
would have been the case. Im satisfied  that this document gives  enough information about  
the policy for Mrs D to make an informed  decision about whether  to take it out.
Ref: DRN32754082Lloyds has also explained that, once the policy had started, Mrs D would have been sent 
details of how to cancel it. Again, I have no way of verifying this after such a long time but I 
think it likely  that this would have been the case.
Mrs D has provided a copy  of her mortgage offer. There is nothing  to indicate that this was 
dependent on her taking  out the policy.  I have no evidence, beyond her testimony  twenty five 
years later, to show that this is what she was told.
Mrs D has said she remembered the adviser  telling her she could claim the cost of the policy 
back in tax relief. However,  Im not sure what the relevance is of this. Apart from the fact that 
I dont know whether her recollection is correct, I dont think it necessarily supports the 
various grounds she has given for why she thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Lloyds has explained  that it paid its advisers  and they didnt receive commission on the 
products they sold. Mrs D has suggested the adviser may have been incentivised to reach a 
sales target but even  if this were the case I have  no reasonable grounds to conclude that the 
adviser mis-sold the policy. 
In summary,  the policy seems to have been  suitable for Mrs D and she voluntarily held it 
from 1993 until 2000 during which period  she had the benefit of its protection. I can therefore  
see no reasonable grounds for saying Lloyds  should  now refund her premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3275408