K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Royal Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has refused to 
settle a claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to RSA for storm damage.  They  said on 15 December 2018, a 
storm caused damage to their roof and as a result  water damage was caused to the ceiling 
and walls in the dining room. 
On 18 December RSA sent a contractor to look at the damage,  it said the water ingress was 
entering through two slates that were  damaged by freeze thaw action and was not 
attributed to a one-off  storm event. RSA declined the claim because it said water ingress had 
been ongoing over a period of time.  
Mr P says that after the storm he repositioned eight slates in the vicinity of the two cracked 
slates and there were two or three slates on the ground which  were  not there prior to the 
storm. Mr and Mrs P say none of this was referenced in RSAs report.
So, Mr and Mrs P obtained an independent report.  The roofer  thinks  the water didnt ingress 
through the chipped or cracked slates but from slates that had moved and slates that had 
blown off the roof. Mr and Mrs P have  had the roof fixed and are not looking to recover  the 
cost of this, but they would like the claim to be accepted for the internal damage caused by 
storm.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she wasnt convinced that water ingress had 
been ongoing for some time. She felt Mr and Mrs Ps roofer provided a persuasive opinion  
as to why the water  ingress wasnt caused  by the two cracked slates. Therefore, on balance  
she felt the water ingress was a result  of the slates that had moved and were blown off due 
to the storm. 
RSA didnt agree, it said the roof was suffering from worn and old slates, and it re-iterated 
that the slates were  damaged over time by freeze-thaw action. It also said the photograph of 
a slate that was found on the ground  with the nail hole intact, evidenced that it wasnt a 
storm that blew the slate off. So, the case has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions: 
 were there storm conditions on or around  the date the damage occurred? 
 is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage? 
 were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no  the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Ref: DRN35254032Were there storm conditions  on or around the date the damage occurred?
There is no dispute about the weather conditions at the time of the incident. So, I can answer
yes to this question.
Is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent  with the storm damage?
In deciding this, I usually rely on expert  evidence. Ive considered the information given by 
Mr and Mrs Ps roofer, RSAs contractor report and the photographs  provided.
Mr P says he checked the roof after the storm and says he moved about eight slates  back  
into position in the vicinity of the two cracked slates referenced by RSAs contractor. He said 
there were also two or three  slates on the ground that werent  there prior to the storm. 
Mr and Mrs Ps roofer also said that he replaced  six slates which  were  blown totally off 
during the storm.  So, I think its fair to say slates that have moved out of position or blown off 
a roof is typical of the damage you would  see as a result of a storm.
Were the storm conditions  the main cause of the damage?
RSA has said:
The roof line itself is suffering from at least 2 cracked slates directly  above the point of 
ingress, the slates have  cracked due to freeze thaw action over time and cannot  be 
attributed to a one off incident  of storm event. Internally the damage is due to rainwater 
ingress over a period of time. Damage that has occurred over a period of time as a result  of 
gradual deterioration, general  weathering,  maintenance issues and wear  and tear, are not 
considered as storm conditions.
Mr and Mrs Ps roofer didnt agree.  He said he looked at two damaged slates  identified  by 
RSAs contractor and although they were damaged, in his opinion  this wasnt the primary 
cause of the water ingress in the dining area.  The roofer said he removed the slates to check 
their condition and fixings - one slate had edge  damage and the other a crack.  However,  he 
went on to say these  type of slates (welsh)  often have this problem,  but it doesnt affect their 
integrity and effectiveness, providing  the slates below  and alongside arent damaged and in 
the correct position. And this was the case.  He also noted the area below these slates was 
dry, with no sign of dampness. And the slates had good fixings and the nails were  in good 
condition. 
The roofer  also said in his opinion, during a storm, slates can move to the side and will need  
repositioning. He said he replaced  six slates which were blown totally  off the roof during the 
storm. And although they were above and to the side of the dining area location, it should  be 
noted that water may track from any area above, taking the point of least  resistance. In his 
opinion the slates  that had moved and had blown  off in the storm are more  likely to be the 
cause of water ingress rather than the slates mentioned by RSAs contractor.
Ive looked at the photographs RSA provided  showing  Mr and Mrs Ps roof. RSA said that 
the down pipe is leading directly onto the section of slate  where  the ingress is coming from. 
When it inspected this area, it said it noticed previous repairs to this section which appeared  
to be in good condition. But they also noticed worn slate on the roof line. 
Ref: DRN35254033The two damaged slates referenced by RSA,  which in its opinion, are causing the water 
ingress, are approximately a metre  away from the area where the downpipe  is located.  And 
from looking at the photographs they dont appear  to be directly  over the dining area of the 
property, and this seems to contradict whats in RSAs report. Mr and Mrs Ps roofer also 
mentions these slates being approximately a metre away from the downpipe. RSA havent  
provided any other detail  as to how the water  managed to ingress  from the part of the roof 
where the downpipe is. 
It has said the two damaged slates is the point of ingress and these appear to be above the 
conservatory not the dining area. I dont doubt  that the slates  have  been  damaged  by freeze  
thaw action, but I understand that Mr and Mrs Ps roofer removed the slates and looked 
underneath and found it to be dry and no evidence of dampness which  I wouldve  expected  if 
the problem had been ongoing for some  time as indicated by RSA.
RSA has mentioned worn  slate  but in my opinion that doesnt  automatically mean that allows 
water to ingress. Im not disputing that the roof is old or has worn slate, but Im not 
persuaded from the evidence Ive seen that that the slates around the area of ingress were 
worn to an extent that reduced their integrity and allowed water to ingress  for some time. 
Mr and Mrs Ps roofer also commented  on the condition of the roof saying for an old property 
the roof is in good condition, and well maintained.
Ive also considered the internal photographs.  These  dont indicate  to me that water ingress 
has been ongoing for some time.  There  is no evidence of staining, discolouration, mould 
flaking paint etc. I think  the damage  looks consistent  with recent  water  ingress.
RSA also pointed to a photograph of one slate that it said couldnt  have been blown off the 
roof as a result of a storm. It says the hole where the nail attaches  it to the batten was intact, 
so it says the nail fixing has failed. And it therefore thinks  this isnt consistent with storm 
damage. 
Ive considered this, but RSA havent  shown that the fixings  on the roof are failing and 
caused the water ingress. It has said the water  ingress was through the two damaged  slates. 
Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs Ps roofer has said that the roof was well maintained,  
and that the slates  had good fixings and the nails were in good  condition. Im therefore 
satisfied that the dominant cause of the damage was storm. 
So, from what Ive seen,  I think it more  likely  than not that storm did cause the slates to 
move and some of them to blow off. I think the storm was the main cause of the damage  and 
Im not convinced that the water ingress  has been going  on for some  time. I therefore uphold 
this complaint. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint about Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and I direct it to settle  
Mr and Mrs Ps storm claim  for the internal  damage  in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of their home insurance policy. 
If the internal work results  in a cash settlement this should include interest at a rate of 8% 
simple interest from the date of the claim,  until settlement of the claim. And if Royal Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much it has taken off. It should 
Ref: DRN35254034also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs,  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3525403