K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)
policy.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs F bought a PPI policy to protect  their existing mortgage repayments. 
They recall  the sale took place in a meeting, the bank cant confirm this but I am reviewing 
the complaint  on that basis. The policy was in Mr Fs sole name and gave him protection  
against accident, sickness and unemployment.  They  paid a monthly  amount for it. The policy 
cover and premium automatically increased when they took out further advances in 1997 
and 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  so the complaint was
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Lloyds cant  provide a policy  document 
from the date of the sale so Ive relied  on the one from the nearest date available.  
In response to our adjudicators view Mr and Mrs F asked how we can conclude  in favour of 
Lloyds when there is no evidence. I have weighed  up the available  evidence  from both sides, 
and as some  of it is incomplete my decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, on what I consider is most  likely given the evidence  we do have and what  we 
know about how Lloyds  sold PPI at the time.  As an independent and impartial  organisation 
we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit  for us to find in the 
favour of one party over the other.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F say had they not felt they wouldnt get the mortgage  without  PPI, they would  
never have  agreed  to buy it. I cant know what was said in the meeting and Lloyds isnt able 
to provide documents to show how the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs F. But the sale was 
over 20 years ago, so this isnt surprising or unreasonable. Ive thought carefully  about  
everything Mr and Mrs F said but I also have to take into account  how long ago the sale was 
and how that might affect what  they recall. Without  stronger evidence  to show Lloyds didnt  
make it clear  the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs F didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly 
uphold the complaint on this point.
Mr and Mrs F dont  recall  Lloyds recommending the PPI to them. The bank has said we can 
assume a recommendation was made. This is to Mr and Mrs Fs benefit as it means the 
bank had more  obligations to meet during the sales process. It means they had to check  if 
the PPI was right for Mr F. I know he feels strongly  he didnt need the cover, but I think  it 
seems to have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN38839922Mr F was entitled to between six and 12 months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work  benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mr F argues he was fit, 
healthy and in stable employment  in a booming  industry. But insurance protects against 
unforeseen changes in circumstances  so his points dont change  my conclusion.  Mr and Mrs 
F had borrowed quite  a large  sum over a long period secured on their home. Given  the 
serious consequences of missing  mortgage payments, I think the cover  wouldve been 
useful for Mr and Mrs F if Mr F was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs F all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And I dont  know that it pointed out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But Mr F doesnt  appear to have  been  affected by any of those things (such as 
the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont think  
better information wouldve changed their decision.
Ive looked at the 2015 letter Mr and Mrs F sent in carefully, but that doesnt change my 
conclusion. I accept  it will have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs F that 
Lloyds originally struggled to locate details of their policy,  but that doesnt automatically 
mean it was mis-sold. For the reasons set out above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. It 
follows I dont find Mr and Mrs F have  lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3883992