K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has dealt with his proposals to 
pay mortgage arrears and that it had not allowed him to access  a lower interest rate.
background
Mr B took a mortgage  from Bank  of Ireland  in 2008. He had previously cleared arrears on 
the account but arrears had again developed.  In 2017 he asked  that Bank of Ireland agree to 
his payment proposal to clear those arrears.  He also wanted  to access  a lower interest rate. 
Bank of Ireland  asked him for his income  and expenditure details. He complains  that it also 
asked him for more  supporting  information  including about his unsecured  debt. And that it 
wouldnt consider  options that would have helped him make payments including the 
capitalisation of arrears or an interest rate product. He has now sold his property and repaid 
the mortgage. 
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-He thought it reasonable for Bank  of Ireland  to want full information about Mr Bs 
financial position when considering  a payment  proposal.
-Here it wanted to know what arrangements Mr B had come  to with his unsecured  
creditors so it could  assess  the impact on his ability to make payments.
-Bank of Ireland  had said that it would  not allow Mr B to transfer  to a fixed interest  rate 
product while  his mortgage  account  was in arrears.  There  would be an early 
repayment charge  payable  if the property was sold.
-He did not think Bank  of Ireland  had made  any errors.
Mr B did not agree.  He said that his unsecured creditors were  irrelevant  as they are not 
priority debtors. He would not be paying them until the arrears were  cleared.  He was offering 
a minimum amount towards arrears and would pay more than this when he could afford  it. 
Bank of Ireland  had failed to take his circumstances into account. This had caused him 
considerable stress until he sold the property.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key issue  I need to decide on here is whether the requests for information  from Bank of 
Ireland were  reasonable. Mr B clearly thought that they werent.  Id expect Bank  of Ireland to 
treat him fairly. I know that its insistence  on seeing all his bank statements and for an 
explanation of his transfers  to other accounts upset him. It wanted to see all his financial 
activity and understand if he had other  bank  accounts.
He provided that information. But he was still reluctant to provide  information about his 
unsecured creditors. Bank of Ireland  says that the type of information it needs  is set out on 
the income and expenditure  form. And I think it was fairly entitled to decide what information  
it wanted to assess  his ability to make  repayments. Thats especially taking  account  his 
history of arrears. I understand why Mr B thought  this to be irrelevant but I dont have  a basis 
for find Bank  of Ireland  acted unreasonably when  it disagreed with him about that.
The other key issue  is about the setting of a plan for payments. I understand Mr Bs point 
that it could be relevant  to think not only of the shortest possible period but to take into 
account affordability in the future  and possibly over the term of the mortgage. Thats why he 
Ref: DRN35929942was unhappy  when in further correspondence  Bank of Ireland said he was paying more  than 
he had offered in the payment plan. And that this meant he might be able to repay  more  in 
future.
I dont disagree with Mr B that the issue  here is what is reasonable. And again Bank of 
Ireland did not think it could make a fair assessment without more information. Its made 
comments about the possibility of capitalising  arrears.  And said it could not consider this until 
payments consistent  with those required if the arrears were capitalised had been  made  for 
six months.
Bank of Ireland  did not have to offer Mr B any other rate of interest on the mortgage. Its 
explained that it would not do so while arrears were at the level at that time. And the 
adjudicators set out its concerns about the potential  impact  of any related early  repayment 
charge if his property  was sold - and as it was here.  
I appreciate that Mr B had difficulty in making  the required  payments to his mortgage. But for 
the reasons Ive given I dont think Bank of Ireland acted unfairly and that includes when it 
asked him for more  information to help it assess his proposals for the payment of his arrears.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3592994