K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt let him know that the introductory 
0% interest rate on his credit card was coming to an end.
Background
Mr M had a credit card with Tesco  which had an introductory interest rate of 0% which ended 
in April 2019. Mr M didnt realise this, and so was charged interest of £113.34 on his 
statement the following  month.
The end date of the introductory  rate was noted on his February  statement  but, because  of 
personal circumstances, he unfortunately overlooked this.
Mr M complained that this information  hadnt  been included in either  his March or April 
statements, and he hadnt been told about it in any other way such  as by text message or 
email. He asked for the interest to be refunded and he closed down his account.
Tesco said that the end date of the introductory  rate was confirmed  in the February  
statement and it sent Mr M a letter about  this in April 2019. It said it was sorry that Mr M 
hadnt received  this letter but it hadnt  had the letter returned undelivered.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. She 
thought Tesco had made it clear  when the 0% interest rate would end and didnt think it had 
acted unfairly by not choosing to let customers know this in other  ways  in addition to writing 
to them.  She said Tesco  had waived the interest that wouldve applied after Mr M paid off his 
account balance  in May, and she thought  this was fair.
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators findings  and said that a responsible financial institution 
would include the message about the rate ending  on the March statement too. He said he 
didnt receive the letter  from Tesco in April.  He felt the findings were one sided.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry  to learn about the difficult circumstances Mr M has been experiencing. I can 
understand that this situation  will have added to the worry  and stress  hes been 
experiencing. I can also appreciate how this may have  led him to overlooking  the notification 
that the rate would be ending which was on his February statement. 
Tesco has told us that it also sent Mr M a letter,  separate to his statement,  in April 2019. Ive 
seen a copy of this letter which was specifically about the ending of the rate, and setting out 
the rates that would apply  after this time.  It appears to be correctly addressed to Mr M, 
although I do acknowledge that he didnt receive this. 
I also understand that the end date of the introductory rate wouldve been noted in the 
original credit card agreement.
Ref: DRN33281402Although I can see Mr Ms point why he feels that a different  communication method 
couldve been used  and this may have meant that he could take steps to prevent being  
charged the interest, I do think  that Tesco gave Mr M appropriate notice and reminders that 
his introductory  rate would be ending. And the interest he was charged seems  to have been 
applied correctly in line with Tescos standard rates.
Tesco has waived any interest that wouldve applied between  the dates  of his May statement 
to when he paid off the balance, and I think thats  reasonable in the circumstances. I dont 
think Tesco  should  be required to do anything  further to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3328140