K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
Mr M. Allianz  didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken  responsibility  for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store credit account.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Mr M says he was buying something at the checkout  when  shop staff approached him and 
asked him if he wanted a store credit  card. He says the sales  assistants just told him what  to 
fill in, tick and sign. And there was no discussion about what PPI was and he wouldnt have 
agreed to it if it had been explained. 
So, based  on what we know  of the processes at the time, including the forms usually used, 
and taking into account what Mr M has said, I think it was at least presented as a choice.  
I dont know how well the PPI was explained   Mr M says it wasnt  at all. In such a situation, 
I have to think whether  its likely that a better  explanation would have changed whether Mr M 
agreed to the PPI. I know Mr M is saying it would have made a difference,  and he wouldnt 
have taken the PPI. But Im conscious  that this all happened very many  years ago, and it 
wouldnt be surprising if Mr M didnt remember all the detail of what happened and what  he 
thought at the time. 
Mr M has said he had very good  sick pay. But I still think its fairly likely that the PPI could 
have paid out for longer  than his full employer sick pay lasted. And, in any case, it would 
have been in addition to any employer  sick pay or redundancy pay. And he could have kept 
any savings in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have  seemed  
potentially useful. So, given that its likely that he knowingly agreed to the PPI, I dont  think  
on balance its likely  that fuller information  would have led him to make  a different decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN35377342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537734