K821x#15complaint
Miss I says Gain  Credit LLC irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 6 instalment loans which Gain Credit provided to Miss I between 
September 2016 and April 2017. Miss Is borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Combined Max Monthly
Repayment for all loans
1 19/09/2016 22/12/2016 6 £400.00 £179.20
2 12/01/2017Not repaid (sold  
to third party) 6 £50.00 £22.80
3 22/02/2017Not repaid (sold  
to third party) 6 £100.00 £62.24
4 04/03/2017Not repaid (sold  
to third party) 6 £200.00 £151.84
5 11/03/2017 04/04/2017 6 £150.00 £219.04
6 24/04/2017Not repaid (sold  
to third party) 6 £150.00 £189.76
Miss I said she struggled to meet her normal household bills and that she was in a cycle  to 
get more loans to repay earlier loans.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Is complaint  and thought  the loans 5 and 6 shouldnt 
have been given. Gain Credit did not respond  so we assumed it disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and the complaint was passed to me. None of the parties  commented  on 
loans 1 to 4 being rejected, so my decision will only deal with loans 5 and 6.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN30518042Gain Credit needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss I 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Gain Credit should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Gain Credit  was required to establish 
whether Miss I could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Is complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 5 would most likely  have shown  
that Miss I was not managing her money  well because her loan repayments were  using a 
significant proportion  of her income. Gain Credit would also have seen from a proportionate  
check of records that Miss I already had three loans still outstanding  with it. So I dont  think 
Gain Credit should  have lent on loan 5.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Gain Credits lending  history with Miss I, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Gain Credit  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Gain  Credit  should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN30518043Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Is case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Gain Credit ought  to have realised  Miss I was not managing  to repay  
their loans  sustainably.  Miss I had taken  out 6 loans within 7 months. So Gain Credit 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Miss I was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that 
Miss Is indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Miss Is first loan was for £400  and loan 6 was for £150. At this point Gain Credit  
ought to have known that Miss I was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in their income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
By lending on loan 6, Miss I was provided with a new loan within  days/weeks  of 
settling the previous  one. 
Miss I wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Gain Credit. Loan  6 
was taken out 7 months after Miss Is first. It wasnt for a larger amount, but Miss I 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Gain  Credit over an 
extended period.
I think that Miss I lost out because Gain Credit continued to provide borrowing with loan 6 
because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Miss Is indebtedness  by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans over which  Miss I borrowed was likely to have had negative  
implications on Miss Is ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Gain  Credit should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Gain Credit LLC needs to do
Gain Credit LLC shouldnt  have  given Miss I loans 5 and 6.
If any of the outstanding debts have been sold, Gain Credit LLC should buy these back  if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Gain  Credit LLC is not able to buy the 
debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss I towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  
Gain Credit LLC has already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* per year on the individual  payments made by Miss I 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss I originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN30518044C) Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Miss I as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Miss I having 
made overpayments then Gain Credit LLC should  refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* per year calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Gain Credit 
LLC should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Gain Credit LLC has already written-off.  If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss I. However  if there is still an outstanding  balance then 
Gain Credit LLC should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss I. Gain  
Credit LLC shouldnt  pursue  outstanding balances made up of principal which has 
already been  written-off.
E) Gain Credit  LLC should remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Is credit 
file in relation  to loan 5. The overall  pattern  of Miss Is borrowing for loan 6 means 
any information recorded about  loan 6 is adverse,  so Gain Credit LLC should  remove  
these loans  entirely from Miss Is credit  file. Gain Credit  LLC does not have to 
remove loan 6 from Miss Is credit file until it has been repaid but Gain Credit LLC 
should still remove any adverse  information  recorded about this loan.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit  LLC to deduct tax from this interest.  Gain 
Credit LLC should  give Miss I a certificate  showing how much tax has been  deducted,  if she 
asks for one. If Gain Credit LLC intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Miss I owes,  
Gain Credit LLC must do this after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Is complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right for Miss I as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3051804