K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham)  unfairly  declined  a 
claim he made under his Gadget Cover  for accidental damage to his mobile phone.
background
Mr B attempted to make  a claim for accidental damage to two mobile phones.  He says that 
he placed both of his mobile phones in his pocket  and later realised the screens on both 
phones had been damaged.
Mr B initially  told Gresham  that his phones were  damaged when he closed his car door.  
When Gresham said the damage to the phones couldnt happen in this way Mr B said he 
explained that due to his profession,  he often carries screws and nails in his pockets which 
may have  caused  the damage. 
Gresham considered  what Mr B told it and decided  not to pay his claim as he was unable  to 
give a clear cause of the damage.  It had loss adjusters consider if the damage could be 
caused by a car door, and it was decided the damage couldnt have been. It also thought it 
wasnt possible to damage the screens  of both phones by having screws/nails in the same 
pocket.
Mr B said he doesnt know exactly how the damage  was caused, only that when he took the 
phones out of his pocket  they were damaged, and the explanations he had given were 
assumptions. He has since had one of the phones repaired at a cost less than the policy 
excess so is claiming for one damaged  phone.
Our investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  Gresham 
disagreed, so it has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think it should be 
upheld.
Mr B made a claim for accidental damage  to two mobile phones. He says he placed the 
phones in his pocket and later in the day he realised both phones  had become  damaged.  He 
didnt know how the damage had occurred,  so he had to make assumptions.  
I dont think its unreasonable for Mr B to have thought about the time between when he 
placed his phones in his pocket and when he noticed the damage.  It is clear  from Mr Bs 
explanation that he didnt  witness the event that damaged the phones and so cant  be 
certain what happened. And I dont think its fair or reasonable for Gresham to use this as a 
reason to decline Mr Bs claim.
Mr B has put forward some suggestions  about how the damage might  have occurred. But 
hes been clear  that he just doesnt know for certain.
With Mr Bs explanation in mind  I think the phone he is claiming for is likely to have been 
damaged accidentally. Gresham hasnt provided  enough evidence  to persuade me this isnt 
the case. 
Ref: DRN33209652my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Gresham Insurance Company Limited  to;
consider Mr Bs claim  under the remaining terms of the policy
pay Mr B £100 compensation for the delay it has caused in dealing with his claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3320965