K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about an annuity set up by Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva)
in 2011. Aviva says it set the annuity up incorrectly and has now rectified its error resulting 
in a reduced annual annuity.  Mr H wants the annuity payment returned to the original 
amount. Aviva has refused to do that.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Hs complaint in my provisional decisions.  Ill summarise it 
again here.
Mr H contacted Aviva to set up his annuity.  The benefit payment application form was 
completed on 19 September  2011 and the annuity set up on 20 September  2011. Mr H 
wanted an option with a guarantee of 10 years, no tax-free cash  and no spouse  pension. 
This particular option wasnt available on the form and so he selected  option 5 and had an 
arrow pointing to option 1. Option 5 was for a 10-year  guarantee period with tax-free cash; 
Mr H had crossed out the tax-free cash and wrote  none. Option 1 was for a 5-year  guarantee 
period.
Aviva sent a benefit  schedule on 20 September 2011 confirming A pension of £13,015.08  a 
year payable throughout your lifetime. The pension is static  and guaranteed for 5 years
Mr H wrote to Aviva  on 16 March 2016  regarding  a separate matter. On the letter, he said, 
On the documents  I had sent back I asked for the period  of guarantee to be 10 years and 
not 5 years if possible, I heard nothing  to this, please confirm,  but I do appreciate  5 years 
have passed and it does not matter so much.
In response, Aviva  sent a couple of retirement  schedules in 2016,  with the original date of     
5 October 2011 with a guarantee period of 10 years and the annuity of £12,458.40 per year. 
However, there was no covering letter to explain this schedule. 
Mr H contacted Aviva several  times to resolve  the matter, as he wasnt  happy with the lower  
annuity. 
Aviva wrote to Mr H on 11 November 2017. It said that the annuity was set up incorrectly  
with a 5-year guarantee period instead  of a 10-year  effective 20 September 2011. This 
meant Mr H had been receiving overpayments between 20 October  2011and  20 April 2016. 
It requested that Mr H send a cheque for £2,040.46 to return  the overpaid sum.
Mr H raised a formal complaint and Aviva apologised for the error, offered a cheque of £100 
towards the distress  and inconvenience, and wrote  off the overpayment. But, it was unable 
to amend the annuity payments back to the incorrect amount. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Hs complaint. She considered that Aviva had not 
dealt with the complaint fairly.  Mr H had contacted Aviva several  times  to deal with this 
matter. He had been  waiting for a response  from Aviva from April 2016 to November 2017. 
She recommended Aviva  should pay Mr H and additional amount of £200 towards trouble 
and upset as fair and reasonable compensation. But, she agreed that the annuity payments 
shouldnt go back to the higher amount.
Ref: DRN34289182Aviva disagreed with this. It said, I would note that whilst I agree that the £300 suggested is 
both broadly fair and valid, I'm of the view that the business's present offer of £100 plus 
writing off the overpayment amount of £2,040.46 is also equally fair and valid.   I would  
highlight that Aviva could have requested for Mr H to return the full overpayments  to us and 
had Aviva decided  to do this then we would agree that a total compensation payment of 
£300 would  be appropriate.
 
The adjudicator considered the points by Aviva  were fair, she felt in writing off the 
overpayment of £2,040.46 and paying £100  in addition for the trouble and upset this Aviva  
had been fair and reasonable. As Mr H had benefited financially from Avivas error she didnt 
uphold his complaint nor did she agree  Mr H should receive an increased  annuity payment. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said he would rather keep the higher annuity payments and forgo the 
10-year guarantee.  He said had he known the payments would be lower  he wouldnt have 
selected this option in the first place  and so he asked for an ombudsman review.  
In my provisional decision,  I considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I looked  at all the 
information provided by both parties  afresh. Having done so, I considered  departing from the 
view of our adjudicator and upholding this complaint.
Mr H has made numerous points and commentary  regarding this issue. If I dont refer to 
each one in my decision I hope  he wont think me discourteous and I can assure him I have 
considered all the points raised, but that doesnt mean I will need  to refer to them  all in order 
to reach  my decision.
The crux of this complaint lies in the benefit payment application form Mr H completed in 
2011. He selected an option  that wasnt shown and amended the form to read, as he saw it, 
the option he wouldve liked to select. Ive looked carefully at the application  form and Im 
persuaded its reasonable to read either way. That is to say, I can see why Aviva read it to 
be a five-year guarantee as Mr H drew  an arrow  pointing to that option. I can also see why 
Mr H feels in crossing out the tax-free  cash and marking a cross against the 10-year 
guarantee he thought that was possibly an option available. Mr H marked the form to show  
he hadnt received  financial advice and so selected  the option he felt represented what he 
wanted.
But, when Aviva sent out the retirement  benefits schedule, clearly  showing the 5-year  option 
Mr H didnt query it. In fact, the copy he provided shows handwritten notes confirming the 
guaranteed amount over the 5- year period and the monthly amount this equated to. Aviva 
paid the annuity in accordance with the schedule it sent and Mr H accepted  the payments. 
This continued for the period of 5 years until around April 2016 so it would  seem  reasonable 
that both parties  accepted this as the agreed  schedule of payments.
When Mr H wrote about a separate matter, Aviva  have said he advised them of an error. 
Aviva said it should have been  a 10-year guarantee and re-issued a retirement  benefit  
schedule for a lower  annuity payment backdated  to 2011, but guaranteed for a 10- year 
period. Aviva  didnt  send  a covering letter or offer any explanation  about why they had made 
this change. This resulted  in an overpayment of £2046.42. Aviva asked Mr H to repay this.
From this point on it seems Mr H became quite confused about what  was going  on and 
repeatedly tried to find out from Aviva why they wanted him to repay  this money. He 
maintains he only ever queried  whether  his annuity  had a 5 or 10 year guaranteed period. 
Ref: DRN34289183He says if anyone  had contacted him to discuss the matter, or responded to his queries and 
pointed out the longer guaranteed period would result in lower annuity  payments, he would 
have made  it clear he was happy with the original benefit schedule.
Aviva assert they did make an error in the first place, it should have been 10 years and they 
are prepared to honour the guarantee but this will result in lower annuity payments. They 
have accepted they didnt  deal with Mr Hs concerns and queries as well as they should 
have done. Under  normal  circumstances, they concur that they would accept redress  of 
£300 as reasonable. But, as they have agreed  to waive the over-payment of £2,046.42, they 
feel Mr H has already  benefitted from their error and so they shouldnt pay anything further.
There are two questions to be addressed here.  Firstly  is it reasonable for Aviva to say they 
made an error 5 years ago, which they are going to correct  regardless of Mr Hs wishes? 
Secondly, will Avivas decision finally disadvantage  Mr H?
Im satisfied Mr H merely enquired whether or not the guarantee on his annuity was for a 5 
or 10 year period. His letter doesnt demand a 10-year guarantee. As Aviva had been paying 
the annuity for 5 years  based on a 5-year guarantee, Im not persuaded it can say now a 
definitive error must be corrected. The original benefit application form could  be read either  
way and as Ive previously said given Aviva  provided a benefit schedule  and paid the benefit  
for 5 years and Mr H accepted this I dont think its fair or reasonable to adjust it, backdate it 
and then pay a lower amount indefinitely without consulting Mr H.
I also think Aviva may have a contractual  obligation to pay Mr H the higher amount on the 
basis that there was only a five-year guarantee. The retirement benefit schedule  Aviva 
issued to Mr H when  it set up his annuity  set out that Aviva would pay £13,015.08  a year 
guaranteed for five years. Im not sure its open  to Aviva to seek to vary that agreement  now 
and importantly when  Mr H doesnt  consent. I recognise that as a matter  of law mistakes  can 
often be rectified. But, here it seems  to me that Aviva set up the annuity on the basis it set 
out and which Mr H accepted. Im not going to explore that further as regardless  of any 
contractual arguments I dont think its fair or reasonable  for Aviva to now to insist  that the 
basis of the annuity is amended.   
Im persuaded Mr H should  have had better communication  and at the very least Aviva  
should have consulted him about whether he wanted to change  anything about the current  
benefit schedule.  He should  have  been  informed about the impact  of such  a change. Mr H 
has already made it clear  he didnt receive any financial advice at the time and so its 
reasonable to think he wouldnt  have been  clear about the impact of a 10 year guaranteed 
period. Im further  persuaded, from what Mr H has said that had Aviva  explained the impact  
of a 10-year guarantee, he would, as he said, have retained the existing annuity payment.
Ive said Im not satisfied  Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably here and so Im going to 
ask them  to put Mr H back in the position  he was in before they amended  his schedule and 
repay the difference since they reduced  his annuity payment, restoring it to the position he 
was in before he posed the question. 
Mr H has explained his frustrations in his attempts to resolve this issue and gain answers  to 
his questions. I intend to ask Aviva to pay £300  in recognition  of the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused  him.
Ref: DRN34289184In my provisional decision I said I proposed to uphold this complaint and ask Aviva to:
1.return the annuity payments to those in the original benefit schedule issued on 5 
October 2011.
2.refund  any difference between the original annuity payments and the reduced 
payments Mr H has received to date plus 8% simple  interest  p.a on the shortfalls.
3.pay £300 (in total and less any amounts already paid) for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused.
I invited Mr H and Aviva to provide any further  comments they may wish to be considered.
Mr H has agreed  with my provisional decision. However, Aviva has responded with the 
following points: 
The completed application form had an X next to option  5, which  was tax-free cash  
and an annuity  with a 10-year guarantee period, however  the tax-free cash option  
had been crossed out and None hand  written above it.  Therefore, it seemed clear  
that Mr H did not want  any tax-free  cash but wanted an annuity  with a 10-year 
guarantee.
In view of the above, the annuity was set up incorrectly;  as Mr H had made  it clear,  
he wanted a 10-year guarantee.  Consequently, Mr H had financially benefited from 
the error  and as he received a higher income than he should  have received, which  
Aviva hadnt asked to be returned.
Once Aviva was aware of the error  it corrected the annuity to the annuity  Mr H had 
opted for in order to place him in the same  financial position he would have been had 
it not made the error.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information, including  
the additional submission from Aviva, afresh.  Having done so I havent seen anything  to alter 
the view I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Aviva assert because the completed  application form had an X next to option 5, which was 
tax-free cash and an annuity with a 10 year guarantee  period  and the tax free cash  option 
had been crossed  out and None hand  written above it seemed clear  that Mr H did not want  
any tax-free cash but wanted an annuity  with a 10 year guarantee. Im afraid I dont  agree  
with this assertion.  It wasnt  clear  what Mr H wanted because he had in effect selected part 
of two options available to him when in fact neither was. Aviva read that to be a five-year  
guarantee period and sent the benefit  schedule on 20 September 2011 to confirm  it. As Ive 
already said it read:
 A pension of £13,015.08 a year payable throughout  your lifetime. The pension is static and 
guaranteed for 5 years
Mr H didnt challenge this at the time and Aviva  continued to make  payments in accordance 
with the schedule for a further five years. A comment  form Mr H then led to the re-reading of 
Ref: DRN34289185the original benefit  application form and a different view being reached  on what  Mr H was 
trying the secure  five years earlier. In addition, Aviva  acted on that assumption without any 
discussion or correspondence with Mr H other than to inform  him of the action they had 
taken.
I maintain, as in my provisional decision, that whilst there may be a contractual  obligation to 
continue to pay the original schedule in any case, Im not persuaded the action Aviva took 
without any consultation  with Mr H was fair or reasonable.
There nothing to suggest Mr H has been dissatisfied with the original schedule;  indeed, he 
accepted the payments without issue. Ive also no reason to doubt Mr H when  he says had 
Aviva asked him did he want the five year guarantee or did he actually  want a 10 year 
guarantee and explained  the financial implication of the decision,  he would have opted for 
the higher annuity payment with the lower  term guarantee rather than the opposite.  So, I 
dont find it fair or reasonable for Aviva to identify there was an error made in the issue of the 
original schedule and therefore take action to correct it some five years  after the event.
Avivas assertion that it has overpaid Mr H is only on the assumption  it made an error in the 
first place. Mr H hasnt  said there  was an error made at the time or since,  he merely asked 
about the guarantee period but as Aviva read the benefit application as a five-year 
guarantee and Mr H accepted it as such, I dont agree Aviva can unwind the schedule both 
parties accepted  at the time where  Mr H doesnt agree. Im satisfied Aviva hasnt acted fairly 
or reasonably in the action its taken.  Im persuaded, on balance, it should  maintain the 
original benefit  schedule it issued and put Mr H back in the position  he would have been in 
had it done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I uphold this complaint and direct  Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to:
1.return the annuity payments to those in the original benefit schedule issued on 5 
October 2011.
2.refund  any difference between the original annuity payments and the reduced 
payments Mr H has received to date plus 8% simple  interest  p.a on the shortfalls. 
3.pay £300 (in total and less any amounts already paid) for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3428918