K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC changed the way it managed  his portfolio and it 
then executed trades without his knowledge  or approval realising large  gains resulting in a 
tax liability of around £50,000.
background
Barclays subsequently reversed these trades without Mr Hs approval.
It eventually upheld Mr Hs complaint and offered to reverse the trades that took place in 
error and refund any costs incurred as a result of the error including  paying any reasonable 
accountancy costs  and late payment fines imposed by HMRC;  plus £1,000 trouble and upset  
for the delays and inconvenience caused.  It also offered to review  any capital gains tax 
(CGT) liability should it arise but said that reversing trades is not unusual and doesnt require 
prior HMRC approval so it didnt expect a CGT liability to occur. 
An investigator at this service noted that it was not yet clear  whether there  would be a capital 
gains tax liability and that Barclays was offering Mr Hs accountant assistance to complete 
adjusted income  summaries.
He felt Barclays offer was broadly  fair and reasonable and that it should pay this. But he 
said that, in order  to put Mr H fully back  in the position he would now be in but for its errors, it 
should guarantee to pay any CGT arising from the trades along with all Mr Hs accountants 
fees in relation to this issue.
Mr H didnt accept this proposal and said Barclays should pay him £2,000 given  how slow it 
had been to act, the constant delays resulting  in this problem  still being  unresolved  after 14 
months and the considerable  time and effort he and his accountant  had spent dealing  with 
this (including 34 emails, phone calls etc.). 
He reiterated that Barclays had imposed the reversal without his permission and against his 
explicit instructions, and said the investigator had ignored this point. He maintained  that 
Barclays had acted  illegally, breaking the rules of compliance by imposing the reversal of 
trades. He had cancelled his discretionary agreement with Barclays,  spelling out that it was 
no longer allowed to trade on his behalf and specifically instructed it not to make the 
reversal. He wanted  an ombudsman to rule on whether  Barclays had broken the rules in 
doing this.
Barclays accepted  the investigators view but said it still didnt  believe there would be any 
CGT given it had reversed the trades  and it suggested this issue  could easily be resolved 
between the parties  if this problem arose.
After further exchanges between  this service, Barclays and Mr Hs accountant, both parties 
appeared to agree on how this potential  CGT issue and the accountancy fees would be dealt 
with. Barclays accepted that if the parties  could not agree  on either (when  the final bills 
emerged) Mr H could bring  this specific issue back to the ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34798952From what  Ive read there  are two outstanding areas of disagreement: how much  
compensation Mr H should receive  given the considerable trouble and upset this issue has 
caused him and whether Barclays was entitled  to reverse  the trades and what, if any 
sanctions it should face as a result of this.
Having read the lengthy history of this issue I fully understand Mr Hs frustration at both the 
original mistake and the time it has taken to get to this stage, some of which  is Barclays 
fault. I have no doubt  this has occupied a great deal of Mr Hs time and energy. But I do think 
£1,000 is a fair and reasonable amount in lieu of this, and that this figure  is broadly  in line 
with the sort of sum this service would have recommended had Barclays not made this offer. 
This is solely to compensate Mr H for his time and effort  as we do not award trouble and 
upset payments to third parties such as his accountant.
Secondly, Id like to reiterate that this services  role - where a business has done something 
wrong  is to put the consumer back in the financial position theyd now be in but for that 
mistake (along with potentially compensating them for their time, trouble  and upset). It is not 
our role to punish a business for its mistakes; nor is it for us to seek to reach  definitive  
verdicts about matters of law or regulatory compliance.
Given this, I do not intend  to offer a view as to whether Barclays broke any regulatory  rules 
when it reversed the trades without Mr Hs consent. Mr H could report  his concerns to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority which is the appropriate authority to consider  these  matters.  
That said,  it generally does not look into individual complaints,  particularly where this service  
has considered  matters. 
I therefore uphold  this complaint to the extent outlined  previously by the investigator, and 
instruct Barclays to:
Pay Mr H £1,000
Any CGT  liability arising  from these trades/reversal of trades
Any late payment fine imposed  by HMRC as a result of this issue,  solely relating to it
Mr Hs entire accountants bill relating to this specific issue  and its ongoing resolution
If the parties  cannot  agree about the CGT liability, the size of any HMRC fine or Mr Hs 
accountants fees, Mr H can bring  a complaint  about these issues  back to this service. An 
investigator and/or ombudsman will then decide  whether Barclays offer meets  the criteria of 
being a fair and reasonable  interpretation  of what Ive proposed  in this decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3479895