K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Ms L complain  about a series  of card payments  taken from their joint account with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. They say they neither made  nor authorised them.  Whilst the bank 
refunded most of them, they refused to reimburse  five payments of £18 each. 
background
From March 2017 regular  payments were made from Mr B and Ms Ls account  to 
ratepeople.co.uk  an online service which  tradespeople  can use to generate  business.  Mr B 
is himself a self-employed tradesperson. The payments were generally taken monthly, 
although on occasions there  were  smaller  additional  payments. 
Mr B says he noticed the payments in or about  September 2017 and contacted the bank  at 
the time.  HSBC says it was unaware  of any problem until Ms L got in touch in November 
2017. The payments continued  to be taken even after that. 
Some of the payments were refunded through the chargeback  process  a scheme (run in 
this case by Visa)  by which certain card payments can be challenged. The payee  didnt 
challenge the chargeback  request and so some of the payments were refunded. But, since  
the payments  were  continuing, Mr B contacted  HSBC again. It agreed to refund all the 
payments which  had been made up to 118 days before theyd first been  queried. It also 
agreed to refund all overdraft fees and to pay 8% interest on the refunds.  
However, because  HSBCs  earliest record of any question about the payments was in 
November 2017,  it only made refunds back to August  of that year. That left five payments  
those made  from March to July 2017  which hadnt been refunded.   
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. He indicated that he thought HSBC 
should refund the remaining payments. He wasnt persuaded that Mr B had authorised them. 
HSBC explained  that it wasnt treating the payments  as fraudulent,  and so the correct  
procedure was to pursue  a chargeback; and chargeback rules meant it was too late to do 
that for the remaining payments. It didnt agree to the investigators proposals. 
The investigator made further enquiries  of ratepeople.co.uk. They  showed that, whilst there 
was an account  linked  to Mr B and Ms Ls bank  account, it wasnt in Mr Bs name, although it 
was linked to a previous address of his. Mr B acknowledged that he may have made (or 
allowed someone else to make) a payment to the website in the past, he hadnt  set up an 
account or allowed anyone else to link his card to their account.  The investigator passed  that 
information to the bank,  but it didnt agree to refund the payments and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators analysis that the payments were probably made under a 
continuous payment  authority. Thats commonly used to make  regular  payments,  such as 
memberships or subscriptions,  using  a card. Rather than each payment being individually  
authorised by the cardholder, the payee requests the payment. 
Ref: DRN34202952In this case, there was a single payment made several months before the disputed 
payments. Mr B hasnt  disputed this payment, but neither  has he provided  much detail about 
the circumstances in which it was made. It seems he may have  made it for someone  else or 
allowed someone else to use his card. Either way, I think thats how ratepeople.co.uk  
obtained Mr Bs card details. I can understand therefore why HSBC didnt feel that this was a 
case of fraud. 
Its less obvious  however  how Mr Bs card details came to be used to set up a continuous 
payment authority against someone  elses account.  It might  have been done in error or as a 
result of a misunderstanding.  It doesnt  necessarily mean there was any dishonesty,  
although I cant rule that out. 
But the issue here isnt really  whether  the payment authority was set up dishonestly;  rather, 
its whether Mr B or Ms L agreed to the payments that were  made  from March  2017. 
Mr B and Ms L say they had no knowledge of the payments  and hadnt set up an account 
with ratepeople.co.uk. I accept that, not least because the account linked to the card is in 
someone elses name. That would also explain why Mr B was unable to cancel the 
payments, since he was told he didnt have an account. Its also consistent with the fact that 
the chargeback  requests werent defended.  
I note HSBCs comments about timescales.  No doubt it would have been able to recover the 
first five payments if it had processed  a chargeback  request  earlier.  And its arguable  too that 
Mr B or Ms L should have  identified  the payments sooner than they did. But I dont think  I 
can treat any delay in doing so as evidence that they had consented  to them,  or that either of 
them agreed to the setting  up of the continuous payment authority.
Mr B complained too about the way in which HSBC had handled  his initial  enquiry and later 
complaint about  the payments. But, as the investigator noted, it offered not only to refund 
most of the payments  but also overdraft charges, not all of which  were  the result  of the 
disputed payments, and to pay a further  £200  in recognition of the inconvenience to which 
Mr B and Ms L had been put and the distress  that theyd suffered. I agree with the 
investigator that it wouldnt be appropriate  to make any further award for non-financial loss in 
this case. 
But I also agree   for the reasons Ive explained   that HSBC should refund all the disputed  
payments, including those before July 2017, together  with interest. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Bs and Ms Ls complaint, HSBC UK Bank  plc 
should, in addition to the £200 payment offered, refund the five payments made to 
ratepeople.co.uk between March and July 2017, together  with simple interest at 8% on those 
refunds. Interest should be calculated  from the date of each payment until the date of the 
refund. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Ref: DRN34202953Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3420295