K821x#15complaint
Ms S says PDL Finance  Limited  trading as PDL (PDL) - irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five short-term high-cost loans PDL provided to Ms S between  March 
2016 and June 2018. Ms Ss borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 27/03/2016 27/05/2016 3 £250.00
Break 
2 05/12/2016 20/06/2017 6 £750.00
3 27/06/2017 30/08/2017 6 £1,000.00
4 05/01/2018 20/06/2018 12 £1,000.00
5 20/06/2018 Outstanding 12 £1,500.00
PDL has agreed to uphold  Ms Ss complaint about loan 5 and has offered to refund all the 
interest and charges shed paid on this loan.   
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ss complaint  and thought the loans  from loans 4 and 5 shouldnt 
have been given because the overall pattern of the borrowing suggested that 
Ms S wasnt managing her money. PDL disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN31965812refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Ms S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ss complaint. Having done this, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. 
There was a significant break in Ms Ss borrowing from PDL.  There  was a gap of around 6 
months between loans 1 and 2. I think it would be reasonable  for PDL to view this gap as an 
indication that Ms Ss finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that 
had caused her to take out her previous loans. So, I will look at Ms Ss borrowing in two 
separate lending chains.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ss complaint about loans 1 to 3. Ms S didnt respond  to the 
adjudicators opinion. As there is no dispute  with the adjudicators  findings  about these 
loans, I wont be making  any further findings on them other than they formed part of Ms Ss 
overall borrowing. 
PDL has offered to refund all the interest and charges Ms S paid on loan 5. As this offer is in 
line with our approach,  I wont  consider this loan any further either. But I also think PDL 
shouldnt have lent to Ms S on loan 4 either. Ill explain why. 
PDL says it carried out checks before it lent loan 4 to Ms S and the results  of these checks  
didnt raise any concerns.  But as Ms S was committing to borrowing over a 12-month period, 
I think PDL should have been  looking  to build a clear picture than this about Ms Ss finances  
before lending her this loan.
Had PDL carried out proportionate  checks before lending loan 4, its likely to have found that 
Ms S was borrowing from other short-term lenders and these payments were  increasing her 
monthly outgoings.  It was likely this behaviour of indebtedness was becoming increasingly 
more difficult to sustain.  This was proven  to be the case as Ms S has been unable to repay 
loan 5. 
putting things right  what PDL needs  to do
It isnt clear from the information  PDL has given us as to whether the outstanding balance  
due on the final loan has been  transferred to a third party. If it has, then PDL should buy the 
Ref: DRN31965813loan back if it can. If PDL isnt able to buy the loan back than it needs to work with the third 
party to make sure the following is achieved:
refund  all interest and charges Ms S paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
rework loan 5 applying all payments made  by Ms S as if they went  towards  the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  PDL needs to make sure that it collects 
no more than the principal sum lent. 
If and when the amount Ms S has paid exceeds the amount she was lent, any 
further amounts  paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments that 
may have been made should  be refunded to Ms S with 8% simple  interest from the 
date the overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
if there is still an outstanding balance, any refunds  should  be used to repay any 
balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If there  is any surplus this should be 
repaid to Ms S.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Ss credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5. 
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires PDL to take off tax from this interest.  PDL must  give Ms S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Ms S still has an outstanding balance due on loan 5 then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind PDL of its obligation  to treat Ms S fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ss complaint.  PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3196581