K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Mrs G took out a total of six loans with Sunny between May 2015  and February  2017.  
Loan Date borrowed Date repaid Amount
1 21.05.15 09.07.15 £200
2 25.05.15 09.07.15 £100
3 05.06.15 09.07.15 £150
4 04.11.16 outstanding £400
5 05.12.16 outstanding £150
6 23.02.17 outstanding £200
All six loans  were due to be repaid  in six monthly  instalments.  Mrs G repaid the first three  
loans early, and then didnt borrow again  from Sunny for nearly 16 months. But she fell 
behind with her payments  on the remaining loans, and balances  remained on loans 4, 5 and 
6 when Sunny sold them  to a third party in 2017.
Mrs G believes  that Sunny didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks when she applied  
for the loans. She says Sunny increased and extended the loans  without re-assessing her 
ability to pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mrs G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN33911632the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Gs complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mrs G. It asked her for details of her income, and 
her normal  expenditure.  And it checked her credit file before agreeing  the first loan. Ive seen 
a summary of those  checks  and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.
Each of Mrs Gs loans was repayable over a six month period. So the amounts she needed 
to repay  each time were smaller than theyd have been if shed  taken a normal payday loan. 
But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a significantly longer 
period. And at times  Mrs G had two or three loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to 
consider the total amount  that Mrs G needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think the checks that Sunny did before agreeing  the first three loans were proportionate. 
I dont think the amounts  Mrs G needed  to repay were such a large proportion of her monthly  
income that Sunny should have  been concerned that she couldnt afford the loans. In view of 
repayment amounts,  the information  Sunny had about Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, 
and her borrowing  history with Sunny, I dont think it would have been proportionate  for 
Sunny to ask her for the amount of information that would have been  needed  to show  that 
the borrowing  was unsustainable before making  the first three loans.
As Ive mentioned  above, Mrs G repaid the first three loans early,  on the same date in July 
2015. There was then a gap of nearly  16 months  before she took out her next loan. And 
I think it was reasonable  for Sunny to treat her as a new customer  when she applied for 
loan 4, and to carry out checks on that basis.
Ref: DRN33911633Its true that loan 4 was significantly more than the previous loans had been. But Mrs G told 
Sunny her monthly income had also increased  quite significantly by this time. And although 
the regular monthly  expenditure  she told Sunny about was also a little higher than it had 
been before, based on the information Mrs G had provided, the monthly  repayments  would  
have appeared  to be fairly comfortably within Mrs Gs means. 
At the point when  she applied for loan 5, there  was nothing  to suggest that Mrs G was 
having any problem  making the repayments  on loan 4. Although loan 5 increased Mrs Gs 
monthly repayments, it was only by around  £42. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable of Sunny to agree to make  loans  4 and 5 without carrying out more  
detailed affordability  checks.
But when Mrs G applied for her sixth and final loan,  her declared monthly income had 
dropped. I acknowledge that her declared monthly  expenditure had also decreased slightly.  
But she was still paying loans 4 and 5. And the combined monthly repayment, between the 
three loans,  amounted to more than a quarter of Mrs Gs declared monthly income. I think  
that at this point,  Sunny  ought  to have been concerned about Mrs Gs increasing borrowing, 
and concerned that she might not be able to repay  her loans  sustainably.  So Sunny  should 
have realised that it shouldnt lend further  to Mrs G.
I acknowledge that Sunny has pointed out that Mrs Gs declared monthly expenditure was 
relatively low when  she applied for loan 6. But she was committing to repay the loan over a 
number of months. And her declared total monthly  expenditure  had fluctuated  throughout the 
time that she was borrowing from Sunny. So this doesnt change  my view that Sunny should  
have been concerned about Mrs Gs ability to repay her borrowing sustainably. 
As it was, Sunnys records show that Mrs G hadnt  made any repayments  towards  loan 6 
when Sunny sold the debt to a third party in 2017.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  any interest and charges  that Mrs G paid on loan 6; and
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*; and
remove any negative information  about loan 6 from Mrs Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny  to take off tax from this interest. Sunny  must  give Mrs G a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Sunny intends to apply the refund  to reduce  any 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.]
As Ive mentioned,  it looks as if Sunny sold loans 4, 5 and 6 to a third party.  And Mrs G had 
an outstanding  balance on those loans when they were sold.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs G shouldnt repay the principal amounts she 
borrowed. So it seems  reasonable that if she still owes some of the capital she borrowed on 
loans 4 to 6, that could be repaid using part of any refund she is due. But to do so Sunny 
must first buy back those loans, and reduce the balance on loan 6 to reflect just the capital 
that Mrs G borrowed. If Sunny buys the loans back,  I remind  it of its obligation to treat Mrs G 
fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
Ref: DRN33911634If Sunny is unable, or unwilling,  to buy the loans  back it must ensure that all interest and 
charges that formed part of the balance on loan 6 when it was sold are removed from the 
outstanding balance. It can either  make  a payment to the third party or directly to Mrs G in 
order to do this. This is to ensure Mrs G doesnt  repay more than the capital she borrowed 
on loan 6.
In addition, Sunny needs to work with the third party to remove any other interest  and 
charges that the third party has added to loan 6, so that Mrs G doesnt owe any further 
interest and charges on that loan. Again, this may mean making a payment to the third party  
or directly to Mrs G.
If Mrs G has made payments to the third party towards loan 6, and has ended  up paying 
more than the amount she originally borrowed on that loan, Sunny will also need to refund 
any extra  (over and above the amount originally borrowed) Mrs G paid plus 8% simple  
interest from the date the extra amount was paid to the date of settlement.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Elevate Credit  International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put thigs right by doing  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3391163