K820x#14complaint
Miss V complains  that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss V took out a store  card in 1991.  At the same time she was sold a PPI policy  which 
wouldve paid 15% of her outstanding balance each month if she couldnt work due to an 
accident, sickness or redundancy.
Miss V says she didnt  agree to buy the PPI.
The adjudicator thought  that Miss Vs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss V disagrees, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into consideration  when  deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Vs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive made this decision.
Miss V took out the store card and PPI in store. Miss V says she didnt agree to buy the PPI. 
She says the tick in the box to say she wanted it wasnt  made by her, but possibly by the 
sales assistant who helped her complete  the form. Miss V says there are different styles of 
handwriting on the form and this proves she didnt  complete it all herself.
Ive looked carefully  at the credit agreement  provided by Allianz. I cant see any significant 
differences in handwriting, or the styles  of ticks used throughout the form. I have to take into 
account that the sale took place over a quarter of a century ago so its understandably  
unlikely that Miss V may not remember the application process.  I also note that when Miss V 
brought her complaint  to this service she believed the sale had taken place over the phone.  
So I dont  think I can rely completely on Miss Vs memories  of the sale.
If Miss V hadnt agreed to take the PPI I think shed have queried it when she saw it on her 
statement each month.
I dont have sufficient  evidence to safely conclude that the PPI was added without Miss Vs 
knowledge or consent.
Allianz didnt give Miss V a personalised recommendation to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to 
check it was suitable  for her. But it did need to make sure she had enough  information  to 
make an informed decision. I think its likely Miss V didnt  get all the information she ideally 
shouldve. But this doesnt mean  I should  automatically uphold Miss Vs complaint. I have to 
consider whether Miss V wouldve  acted differently and not bought  the policy if shed had 
better information. I dont  think  she wouldve acted differently. I say this because:
Ref: DRN31496682Miss V was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or certain employment  circumstances;
Miss V had some sick pay from her employer, but the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and until she returned  to work  or her outstanding balance at the point 
of claim was paid off;
Miss V says her family or partner wouldve helped cover  her repayments. But other 
peoples circumstances  can change  too and they may not always  have been in a 
position to help, so I think  the policy provided a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was similar  to other  policies on sale around the same time and 
it provided a greater benefit  than most;
I havent seen  anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Miss V.
So, on balance, while its possible Allianz didnt  give Miss V all the information she required, 
I dont think Miss V lost out as a result.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Vs complaint so it follows that Allianz Insurance Plc doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3149668