K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Paragon Bank PLC,  trading  as Paragon Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory  quality and that it 
wont pay for the repair costs that shes incurred.
background
A used  car was supplied to Ms F under a hire purchase agreement with Paragon Car 
Finance that she signed in June 2017. Ms F took the car to a garage in August 2017 
because of an oil leak and the crankshaft oil seal, rocker cover gasket, camshaft sensor  and 
petrol cap were all replaced under warranty. Ms F took the car to a manufacturers dealer in 
February 2018 because of a recall for a handbrake inspection and a health check  identified  
three issues with the car including an oil leak. 
A few days  later the car broke down and she called  out a motoring organisation and her car 
went to a garage. The car broke down twice in March 2018 and was taken back to the 
garage and she was advised  that the oil leak was from the main crankshaft oil seal and the 
timing chain was excessively noisy  and a replacement engine was recommended.  Ms F 
paid £796.20 for the replacement engine. The dealer offered her £150  towards  the repair so 
she complained  to Paragon Car Finance. She wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and he thought  that there was a 
durability issue with it. So he felt that Paragon Car Finance was liable for the cost of the 
replacement engine. And he recommended that it should refund £796.20  to Ms F (with  
interest), pay her £150 for her distress  and inconvenience and refund £237.75 for the three  
months when Ms F wasnt able to use the car.
Paragon Car Finance  has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
the February 2018 health check doesnt confirm the cause of the oil leak or how long 
itd been present and without that information  its unable to prove that the oil leak 
relates to the oil leak that occurred six months earlier;  
Ms F wasnt  able to use of the car for three months due to foot surgery  so shed 
covered 4,384  miles in three months and if the fault was due to a failed repair that 
had been carried  out six months earlier itd be very unlikely  that shed have been able 
to cover that many miles;
the car passed  two MOT tests with no advisories and had covered 5,771 miles since 
the repairs in August  2017  and an oil leak was identified but not repaired in 
February 2018 which resulted in head gasket and engine failure in May 2018;
an independent expert has concluded that the car wouldve been fit for purpose  at 
the point of sale and that the reported faults wouldnt have been present at the point 
of sale; and 
it believes that theres enough  evidence  and factual information  to support its 
decision and it feels that its acted correctly and fairly.
Ref: DRN33433382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paragon Car Finance,  as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car 
was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Ms F was 
more than eight  years old, had been driven for over 60,000 miles and had a price of £2,995.  
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Ms F took the car to a garage within  a few months of it being supplied to her because of an 
oil leak and the crankshaft  oil seal, rocker cover  gasket,  camshaft  sensor and petrol cap 
were all replaced under warranty.  Ms F took the car to a manufacturers  dealer in February 
2018 because  of a recall  for a handbrake inspection  and a health check  identified three 
issues with the car including  an oil leak. The cars mileage at that time was recorded as 
being 64,421 miles so shed used the car to drive  about 4,400 miles. Although the health 
check identified an oil leak Ive seen no evidence to show that Ms F was told that the car 
required a repair or that she shouldnt drive  it.
A few days  later the car broke down and she called  out a motoring organisation and her car 
went to a garage. The car broke down twice in March 2018 so she stopped driving it and it 
was delivered back  to the garage in April 2018. She was advised  that the oil leak was from 
the main crankshaft oil seal and the timing chain  was excessively noisy   and a replacement  
engine was recommended.  That was confirmed  by another garage so the cars  engine was 
replaced and the car was at the garage  from May to July 2018. 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Ms F was told that the break-downs in February  and 
March 2018 were caused by an oil leak  or that she shouldnt drive the car. But the garage 
that replaced the engine says that the oil leak was from the main crankshaft oil seal  which 
had been replaced in August 2017. Ms F paid £796.20 for the replacement  engine and £45 
for an MOT test. The dealer offered her £150 towards the repair. The cars  mileage at that 
time was recorded as being 65,808 miles  so only 1,400 miles more than the mileage  
recorded at the time of the health check.
Paragon Car Finance  has arranged for an independent expert to make a desk  top evaluation 
of the car. And it says that the car wouldve been  fit for purpose  at the point of sale and that 
the reported faults wouldnt have  been present at the point of sale. But the expert hasnt 
inspected the car.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the oil leak in August 2017 wasnt  repaired  
properly, so there was still an oil leak which was identified in February 2018 and which 
caused  or contributed to  the later issues with the engine. So I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Ms F and 
that the car wasnt  as durable as it was reasonable for her to expect it to be. And for those 
reasons I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Paragon Car Finance to reimburse 
Ms F for the £796.20 that she paid for the cars engine to be replaced (with interest).
Ms F wasnt able to use the car when  it was being  repaired  but she continued  to make the 
monthly payments  (as she was required to do) and she incurred travel costs  during that 
Ref: DRN33433383period. The monthly  payment under the agreement was £79.25. I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Paragon Car Finance to refund to Ms F three monthly payments under 
the agreement   a total of £237.75  because she wasnt able to use the car and incurred 
travel costs.
These events have caused  Ms F distress  and inconvenience. In addition  to the payments 
referred to above,  I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Paragon Car Finance to 
pay her £150 to compensate her for that distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Fs complaint. And I order  Paragon Bank 
PLC, trading  as Paragon Car Finance, to:
1.Pay £796.20 to Ms F to reimburse  her for the cost of the replacement engine.
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
3.Refund £237.75 to Ms F for the monthly  payments that she made when she wasnt  
able to use the car because it was being  repaired.
4.Pay £150 to Ms F to compensate  her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Paragon Car Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 2 above. Paragon Car Finance must give Ms F a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3343338