K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained about esure  Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on her motor  
insurance policy.
background
Miss R was in an accident.  Both she and the other  driver blamed each other for it. esure paid 
the other drivers claim against Miss Rs policy. Miss R didn't think  that was fair and brought  
her complaint to us. Out investigator  thought  esure had handled the matter  fairly. Miss R 
didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint and in response  to our investigator's finding Miss R has made a 
number of detailed  points. And while  I've considered everything shes  said very carefully I 
don't intend  to address  each and every point shes made but will instead focus on what  I see 
as being the key issues.
Miss R says that she was in the process  of getting into her stationary car when the other 
driver tried to manoeuvre  past it. But, because of a lack of space owing to oncoming traffic 
he crashed into her car door.  Miss R is adamant that she wasn't solely  to blame for the 
accident. So shes upset  that esure found her 100%  to blame.  In fact she claims that the 
other drivers  claim is fraudulent.  
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Miss Rs policy  allows 
esure to settle  claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Miss Rs consent to decide  
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Miss R doesnt  agree with. But Ill look 
to see that its done so reasonably.
esure has explained to Miss R that in situations  like the one she found herself in where 
theres no CCTV evidence or independent  witnesses then courts will often  decide  that blame 
for an incident should be shared equally. But in this case there were images showing the 
damage to the cars caused by the accident. esure  said that those images indicate that it was 
more likely than not that the damage happened when Miss R car door hit the other car while  
it was already passing. Miss R doesn't accept that. But I think  esures  interpretation looks  
reasonable in the circumstances. From the images I've seen the first sign of damage to the 
other car is near its wheel arch, rather than at the front. So that would indicate  that the car 
had already gone some of the way past Miss Rs car door before  the two came together.
Miss R said that esure should have asked independent accident  investigators to look into the 
matter. But I don't think that was necessary. esure  clearly thought  it had enough information 
to come to a conclusion on who was most  likely to blame for the accident. And it has 
expertise in looking at such  claims.  So I wouldn't expect it to add to its outlay, by paying  for 
external investigators, where it was satisfied it could decide for itself how the accident  
happened. Similarly, Miss Rs said that she gave her account  over the phone and esure 
didn't ask her to complete  an accident report form. But I don't think  it needed  one in order  to 
Ref: DRN30656742understand Miss Rs version of events.  And it clearly felt that the other  drivers account  was 
more likely that Miss Rs. So it accepted  liability on her behalf. As its done so it won't  be 
able to recover any of its outlay to settle  the claim. And I don't think  it would put itself in that 
position, where it can't recover its costs, if it felt it had a reasonable prospect of being able to 
defend the claim. 
Miss Rs made a number  of allegations about the other driver. Including that he might have 
been drinking.  But the police didnt breathalyse the other  driver  at the time. And Miss R has 
no evidence, beyond  her own comments, to support her allegations.  So I wouldn't expect 
esure to simply accept Miss Rs version  of vents  without some  form of supporting evidence. 
But in this case the only other  evidence  available to esure, apart  from the two drivers'  
versions of events, are the images  of the damages to the cars. And esure believes that 
supports the other drivers  account of how the accident happened. 
Miss R also said that the police told her that she wasn't liable for the accident. But as I 
understand it the police  didn't see the incident. And, unless they are considering  a 
prosecution against  the other  driver,  its not their job to decide whos  at fault for an accident 
of this nature.  So I don't  think anything Miss R said the police told her is of any evidential 
value when looking at whether esure decided liability fairly.
Miss R said that esure apparently gave her new insurer  the wrong date for when the 
accident happened. Shes asked if this is an example  of esures  incompetence or is one of 
[the other  drivers] string  of lies to obtain a pay-out for his fraudulent claim.   I think  the error 
of date was esures  alone. I haven't seen any evidence that the other driver played a part in 
that. And, while that errors  certainly  not helpful,  I wouldn't consider an insurer  getting a date 
wrong by a few days to be an example  of incompetence but rather  a slip of the pen. And I 
don't consider it any indication that the mistake affected its liability  decision.
Miss Rs also referred to the other  driver having  a witness. But as I've indicated above esure 
didn't ever ask for or receive evidence from an independent  witness.  So it wasn't  influenced 
by any witness evidence  when it arrived at its liability decision. Miss R added  that the only 
other person who witnessed the incident  was the driver of a van travelling in the other 
direction at the time.  That might  be the case, but as far as Im aware  that driver didn't stop 
and what evidence he might have given isn't known. So, as I've said above, the only 
evidence is the two drivers versions  of events  and the images. 
Miss Rs also provided photos taken  of the road to show the position shed been  in and the 
width of the road. And while those images do help to show how she believes  things  
happened they don't  help her in terms of who was at fault for the accident. As I understand it 
the other driver doesn't agree that he passed  Miss Rs car while  a van was in the other  lane. 
So whether  or not the road was wide enough  for three vehicles  is irrelevant as Miss R would  
first need  to provide evidence that the accident  happened as she said it did and not as the 
other driver said.  But as I've indicated above  esure doesn't think shes provided such  
evidence, and I think its conclusion is reasonable. 
For completeness Miss R has several  times  referred  to the other  drivers fraudulent claim.  
Fraud is a criminal offence  and its not for me to determine whether or not someone is guilty 
of it. But for the reasons given above, Im satisfied  that esures decision to settle  the other 
drivers claim  was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand that Miss R remains unwell as a result of her injuries  from the accident. So I 
appreciated my decision is likely to add to her worries at an already difficult time. Thats  an 
Ref: DRN30656743unfortunate knock on effect  of making such adjudication.  And its certainly not my intention  to 
add to Miss Rs troubles.  So I hope she understands that I must come  to my conclusions 
based solely on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, and 
mustnt be swayed by the difficult circumstances she is experiencing
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3065674