K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  offered him a proportionate 
settlement for his claim made  on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the 
level of service it provided.
background
Mr G was involved in a car accident and made  a claim. Advantage then found that hed not 
disclosed a speeding  offence when hed taken out the policy. It said this would have led to a 
higher premium. So it settled Mr Gs claim based  on the proportion of the premium  hed paid. 
Mr G was unhappy with this and with Advantages level of service. Advantage offered him 
£50 compensation  for these failings. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Mr G 
hadnt answered a clear  question about previous motor convictions  when  he took out the 
policy. He thought that Advantage would have provided a policy  for an increased premium if 
he had. And so he thought it had fairly and reasonably settled the claim proportionately. He 
also thought there had been some service  failings but that Advantages offer of £50 
compensation for these was far and reasonable. 
Mr G replied that he thought this was unfair  as the financial consequences for him were 
severe. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
I can see that Mr G took out his policy through an online comparison site. He was asked if he 
had any driving  related  convictions, endorsements, penalties,  disqualifications or bans in the 
last five years. I think this is a clear question. An advice box explains  how a consumer can 
find information about their offences  and penalty points. 
Mr G answered  no. But I can see that he did have a speeding conviction acquired within 
the previous year. I think  Mr G gave an incorrect answer and he could  then have corrected 
this when he received  his policy documents.  But he didnt do so. Mr G said that he thought 
Advantage should have  checked  his licence.  But I think  its for Mr G to provide the correct 
information. 
So I think Mr G didnt take reasonable care in answering this question.  Mr G told Advantage 
that the non-disclosure was an honest  mistake. I think  Advantage reasonably decided that 
Mr Gs non-disclosure was careless  rather than deliberate. 
Ref: DRN32785842Advantage has provided evidence from its underwriters that if Mr G had disclosed the 
speeding conviction, then it would still have  offered  cover but for a higher premium.  Under 
the relevant legislation, Advantage was then entitled  to settle the claim proportionately. As 
Mr G had paid 69% of the premium that he should have paid, then Advantage paid 69% of 
the claim.  
I can see that this has a severe  financial impact for Mr G. But I think Advantage has acted 
correctly under the relevant legislation,  so I cant say that it needs to change  its decision. 
I can see that there were  several service failings  and a lack of communication by Advantage  
in dealing with the claim.  Mr G had trouble getting in touch with the claim handler  and calls 
back werent made. There was a slight delay in receiving the settlement. Advantage offered 
Mr G £50 compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused. I think  thats fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.  So I dont require Advantage  to 
increase its offer.
Mr G said he had to pay an additional  premium even though he didnt have a replacement  
car to put on cover. I think Advantage gave  Mr G the option to pay the additional premium to 
avoid any future claims being  settled  proportionately. So I cant say this was unfair  or 
unreasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278584