K820x#14complaint
Mrs S and her son, Mr S, complain about  the way NRAM Limited have treated them since  
their interest-only mortgage term ended.
background
In 2007, Mrs S and Mr S re-mortgaged with NRAM on an interest-only basis,  with a ten-year 
term. The term ended in April 2017,  but Mrs S and Mr S havent yet repaid the balance,  
which is currently around £274,000. Mrs S was 76 when the term ended in 2017. Mrs S lives 
in the property, whereas Mr S has moved out and started his own family.
Since the term ended  Mrs S has made  different proposals to NRAM for ways to repay the 
mortgage. Shes asked  to extend the mortgage  term indefinitely,  so that it can be repaid on 
her death.  Shes also asked to extend  the mortgage  term to give her enough  time for house 
prices to rise, to build more equity in the property, so that equity release might  become an 
option for her. Shes also proposed finishing the conversion of the property fully into two 
flats, so she could  sell one of the flats to repay the mortgage, and live in the other. 
Mrs S has already converted the house into two flats, and has been  letting out the upstairs 
flat whilst living in the downstairs flat herself.  This income has been helping her meet  her 
mortgage payments.  But work would still be needed  to finish this conversion in order  to sell 
the flats separately. Mrs S has also applied for Mr S to be taken off the mortgage, as he no 
longer lives at the property and Mrs S is maintaining the interest payments on her own.  
These conversations have been  going  on between NRAM, Mrs S and Mr S for some  time, 
but NRAM have  ultimately  declined Mrs S proposals and have asked  for the full balance to 
be repaid. NRAM declined allowing Mrs S and Mr S time to convert the house into flats fully, 
as they felt this could  put their security  at risk. They were also unclear about what  funds  
Mrs S would use to carry out the works needed. 
Mrs S had the house valued in 2018,  and she was advised to market the property for 
between £500,000 and £600,000. If she were to sell the upstairs  flat on its own,  she was 
advised to market this for around £295,000. Mrs S has made it clear that shes  not willing to 
sell the whole property  and move, as shed have to leave  the area in order to afford to buy a 
smaller property, and shes not prepared to do that.
Mrs S and Mr S complained about  NRAMs decision but the complaint wasnt  upheld. Our 
investigator looked into things and explained  that in her view, NRAM hadnt  declined the 
proposals unfairly. She did however encourage Mrs S and Mr S to seek independent  
financial advice in order to explore  their options.
Mrs S disagreed so the complaints been  passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs S and Mr S are in a difficult position. Mr S no longer lives in the property  
and now has his own family to support, and Mrs S doesnt want to have to leave  the home 
that shes spent  such a long time in and shes settled there.  And I can understand this. But it 
wouldnt be fair to expect NRAM to extend  the mortgage indefinitely until Mrs S passes 
Ref: DRN37005232away, as they lent the money on the basis that it would be repaid  in 2017, and this is what 
Mrs S and Mr S agreed to. There are some  products  on the market that can work this way, 
but thats not what Mrs S and Mr S took out with NRAM, so I dont find it unfair theyve  
rejected this option. 
Mrs S has done a lot of research into the options available to her and Im satisfied she is 
trying to find a solution which means that NRAM get their money back,  without her having to 
lose her home. As Mrs S has explained equity  release could be a potential option for her, but 
shes not satisfied  she currently has enough  equity in the property for an application to be 
successful. I understand  why Mrs S may feel that NRAM allowing  her more time in her home 
could enable  her to build equity in the property if house prices increase. But this is a risk. 
And not one that I would expect NRAM to take. Theres  no guarantee that house prices will 
increase over the coming  years, and in fact theres  the possibility they might actually 
decrease  which would leave Mrs S in a worse position than she is now. So I dont  think 
NRAM are being unfair to turn down this proposal  either.
Im unclear  where Mrs S currently stands with the plans to finish  the conversion  of the 
property into flats.  Shes told us theres still some work that would need to be done,  but 
hasnt said where  she would get the money  from to complete this. NRAM did consider this 
proposal, but they felt allowing this to go ahead could place their security at risk. I 
understand that. 
There are building  regulations that need to be met, and the title of the land would also need  
to be split in order  for the flats to be sold separately. Theres also a chance that even once  
the conversion had been  completed, that the upstairs flat wouldnt sell for as much as its 
been valued, and could  leave Mrs S and Mr S with a shortfall on the mortgage  with no other  
way of repaying that back, other than selling the other flat too. Theres also no way of 
knowing how long the conversion would take to finish, or how long it would  take to sell the 
flat. So I think its right that NRAM did give this proposal serious consideration, but all things 
considered Im persuaded they were fair to turn it down.
Mrs S and Mr S are also unhappy that NRAM wont remove Mr S from the mortgage.  
Considering the current  situation of the mortgage,  I think NRAMs decision is reasonable. 
Mrs S and Mr S currently owe NRAM around £274,000 with no acceptable way of repaying  
this currently. Where  the mortgage is in joint names, it means that both parties are liable for 
this debt, and so NRAM have more options to try and recover  the funds whilst Mr S is still 
responsible. NRAM did consider  extending the mortgage term on a repayment basis  in 
Mrs S name, but given  her age, they could only consider a short-term extension  which  
wasnt affordable for her.
Considering everything, Im satisfied NRAM have  given  consideration to the proposals made 
by Mrs S and Mrs S, and I think theyve declined these fairly.  Theyve  given Mrs S and Mr S 
time to explore  their options before  taking  further action and I think  theyve acted reasonably. 
Its clear that NRAM arent  able to offer Mrs S any solution that means she can remain  in her 
home. But that doesnt mean there arent  other options available  to Mrs S in the market that 
may help.  Mrs S is in a difficult position  given her age and financial position,  so I think its 
important she seeks independent  financial advice to explore other potential options she may 
have. I think shell need some time to do this, so I think NRAM should allow Mrs S and Mr S 
some time to consider alternatives, and see whether they could repay  the mortgage before 
NRAM take further action to recover  the funds.
Ref: DRN37005233my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019. 
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3700523