K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Virgin Money plc will not backdate the date of a default to October 
2016.
background
Miss B says she entered into a debt management plan with Virgin in October 2016 but she 
says it wasnt until November 2017  that it registered  a default on her credit file. Miss B says 
thats unfair and would like Virgin to backdate the default to October 2016 as other  lenders 
did.
Virgin says its not made  a mistake and is legally obliged to accurately report  a true 
representation of Miss Bs account to the Credit  Reference Agencies  (CRAs).  It says it sold 
Miss Bs debt in November 2017.
Miss B brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator  upheld  it in part. The adjudicator 
thought that guidance  from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says that a default 
may be registered when  a person  was three  months in arrears  and would expect  a default to 
be registered after six months. The adjudicator thought the default should be backdated  to 
May 2017 which was about six months  after Miss B got into arrears.
Virgin doesnt accept  that view and says that as Miss B was making repayments, by May 
2017 she was only four months in arrears  and under its rules would not have  registered  a 
default by that stage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that the fairest  approach would  be for Virgin to amend the date of the default for the 
reasons I will explain.  I appreciate that Miss B is likely to remain  disappointed  by my decision 
as I cant fairly ask that Virgin  amend  that date to October 2016.
The ICO provides  guidance  on this issue about when a default  should be registered.  And I 
accept that there isnt a definitive  time period as each case will depend on its own 
circumstances. The guidance says that information  must be fair and accurate and that a 
default should be recorded  in circumstances where  a relationship  has broken down. It is 
further suggested that the period should  be after three months of arrears and by six months  
of arrears. 
So whilst I appreciate  Miss B would  like the default  recorded from October  2016  I cant fairly 
order that Virgin do that. I say that as I can see that Miss B first spoke to Virgin in October 
2016 about her financial  problems. And so I cant fairly conclude that either  the relationship 
had broken down  or that she was in arrears at that stage.
I can see from Virgins records that Miss B asked  it in October 2016 to freeze any interest  
and that she was entering into a debt management  plan. I can also see that Virgin rejected a 
repayment proposal but did freeze interest and recognised that Miss B was in financial 
difficulties. I can also see that Miss B made  repayments that were below the required 
monthly amount  on the account  statements and that she was sent a number of Notice of 
Arrears letters.
Ref: DRN33553262I appreciate that the payments Miss B made  had the effect of delaying the date that Virgin 
uses to default  an account. But having  looked at the circumstances here Im satisfied that 
Miss B had a large debt that she owed Virgin and she was unable  to make the required 
monthly repayments and it was inevitable that the account would default.  I appreciate  that 
Virgin says that by May 2017 Miss B was only four payments in arrears.  But Im satisfied that 
by that stage the relationship had broken  down.  And that Virgin  ought to have known, as its 
records say that Miss B couldnt keep to the previous agreed payments that the position 
wasnt going to improve.
I accept that there is a difficult balance about when  to record  a default. And that customers 
at the time may wish to avoid a default  but when one is registered look to have it recorded 
earlier so that it drops off a credit file earlier .But Im satisfied  on balance here that the fairest  
approach would be for Virgin  to backdate the default  to May 2017.  I also think  in any event 
that the date it did register  the default  was too late. As I can see a Notice  of Default was sent 
to Miss B in August  2017 some three months before the default was registered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Virgin Money plc to 
backdate the date of registration of a default on Miss Bs credit  file to that of May 2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3355326