K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Unum Ltds decision to stop his income protection benefit  payments. 
background
Mr S is a member of his employers group income protection policy. The policy pays  a 
benefit, after a waiting period, if an employee is unable to complete the duties of their 
occupation because  of illness or injury.
In early-2009 Mr S had an accident  at work  and has since reported that he suffers with 
chronic pain symptoms and migraines that vary in severity from day to day. Unum accepted 
his claim and started payment in October 2009.
In 2017, Unum reviewed  Mr Ss claim and requested up-to-date medical  records from his 
GP. These showed  Mr S hadnt received  medical treatment or been prescribed medication  
for several  years in relation to the condition  what had prompted his claim and there was no 
recent information about his condition.
Unum arranged for a functioning capability assessment (FCA) to be carried  out to better 
understand Mr Ss situation at that time.  It felt the results of this assessment  showed no 
evidence of a physical condition that would prevent Mr S from performing the duties of his 
occupation. This, along with the absence of medical treatment, led Unum  to conclude he no 
longer met the definition of incapacity under the policy.  So it stopped paying the claim in 
October 2017 and made a final payment equal to three months benefit.
Mr S appealed against Unums decision and further  independent assessments and 
professional opinions were provided  by both sides. Unum still didnt feel the evidence Mr S 
had provided demonstrated he was unable  to perform the duties of his occupation and 
offered him £25,000 in full and final settlement  of the claim.  Mr S didnt accept the lump sum 
offered and opted to have a further,  final, independent medical  examination carried  out by an 
occupational physician. 
The physician reviewed the available medical  evidence and met with Mr S to perform  a face-
to-face assessment.  He concluded there was no medical reason Mr S couldnt return  to 
work. Unum felt the results of the final report took all the evidence to date into account and it 
didnt reinstate the claim. In line with the physicians recommendations, it offered a revised 
settlement of £30,000 in full and final settlement. Mr S didnt accept this offer.
Our investigator felt Unum had acted reasonably in light of the available evidence and didnt 
uphold the complaint. But Mrs S disagreed, so the complaint  has come to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  upheld this 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and Ill explain how I reached 
this decision.
Cases like these are finely balanced and I appreciate it can be very difficult to evidence 
symptoms such as pain,  as they are largely  self reported. Its not for me to decide  whether or 
not Mr S is experiencing the symptoms  hes described, but to look at whether or not Unum  
Ref: DRN32813552acted fairly  when it made the decision to cease  the claim  based  on the evidence available  at 
the time.
In order to be eligible  for payment under the policy, Unum had to be satisfied Mr S was 
unable, by reason  of illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial  duties  of the 
occupation he was undertaking  immediately before incapacity. It was entitled  to carry out 
regular reviews throughout the claim to satisfy  itself this continued to be the case. 
During a review of his medical records in 2017 Unum noticed  Mr S hadnt  received treatment 
from a medical professional for around three  years  and the pain medication he said he was 
taking was not prescribed by a doctor  which meant it was likely  being taken in small 
quantities. So Unum arranged a review  in order to get a better idea of his circumstances. Im 
satisfied the lack of ongoing treatment or prescribed  medication  was reasonable grounds for 
Unum to investigate further at this time.
As Ive already  said, Unum arranged for a functioning capability assessment (FCA) to be 
carried out by an independent professional. Mr S was observed to be self-limiting  during this 
assessment and withdrew before  it was complete. He was entitled to do this if he had 
concerns the activities he was being  asked to complete would cause him pain. But, as a 
result, the FCA was inconclusive. 
At this point Mr S had no up-to-date  diagnosis  or recognised  condition  that caused pain, he 
hadnt received  medical treatment for several years  and wasnt  being prescribed any 
medication. In addition, the attempted assessment produced inconclusive results  because it 
ended early. Based on the information  it had at this point, I think Unum  acted reasonably  in 
ceasing the claim with three months notice. That potentially  gave  Mr S some  time to 
consider his options and liaise with his employer about returning to work.
Mr S appealed the decision to cease the claim and Unum considered his circumstances 
again, along with the additional information  hed gathered to support his position. This 
appeal ultimately  resulted  in a further,  more comprehensive, independent review in 
November 2018.  This took into account Mr Ss medical history, all of the assessments and 
investigations that had taken place  throughout the claim as well as a physical examination.
I understand Mr S didnt  accept the findings  of this review. He felt the physician was biased  
as the review was arranged and paid for by Unum, but I dont agree. Unum selected a 
qualified and independent professional  an occupational physician  with relevant  
experience. 
The physician outlined in his report that:
He couldnt  see any reason why the injuries  Mr S had sustained  wouldve caused the 
lasting pain he said hed been experiencing. But Mr S was not acting to deceive and his 
actions were reflective of someone  trying to avoid pain.
There was no clear  evidence of any substantial pathology that supported the extreme 
symptoms Mr S was reporting. There was evidence of degenerative  change but that was 
normal for his age. The historical diagnoses Mr S had been given seem to have  fed into 
his belief that his problems were  unusual. All of which had contributed to his belief that 
he was unable to work. It might  have been  that, by his age and given  his personal 
difficulties with the job before he got injured   which stemmed beyond  just his physical 
Ref: DRN32813553problems  he would have ceased his particular occupation by this time anyway, had he 
not been injured  and made a successful  claim on the income protection policy. 
Medically speaking,  Mr S was fit for work and wouldnt  be harmed by work,  but 
psychologically he wasnt ready  to return.  
Given Mr Ss age, the demands of his occupation and his perception about his ability to 
perform his duties, it was unlikely he would return to work in his previous role. If he did 
he would  need a prolonged phased return.
He could recommend  treatment, but this would  need  to be holistic and mainly focused on 
psychological treatment  and Mr S regaining confidence using his upper body.
Consistently having to prove and defend his condition was causing  Mr S anger and 
despair. As his return to work was unlikely, the offer of a lump sum settlement would  
allow Mr S to focus on his recovery.
I can see Mr S has provided evidence to support the symptoms  hes said hes been 
experiencing, and this information was taken into account by the occupational physician. But 
I dont think this outweighs the evidence that suggests he is physically fit for work. His 
evidence has comes  from specialists, consultants  and his GP. But its been provided several 
years after they stopped  treating Mr S. Also, those opinions are based  on his reporting  of his 
symptoms and not by any current pathology or diagnosis that explains Mr Ss symptoms.  
There have been  face-to-face assessments carried out, but again, none  conclusively support 
Mr Ss position or provide  any explanation or diagnosis  for the pain hes experienced. 
As Ive said,  my role is not to make  a decision about  Mr Ss health, its to decide whether or 
not Unum made a reasonable decision when it ceased the claim. Having considered all the 
information available,  Im satisfied it did.
The report  provided  by the occupational physician in late 2018 recommended Unum  make a 
lump sum payment in recognition of the difficulties Mr S will face starting his rehabilitation 
into work after such a long period. This is something  it seems Unum also recognised  when it 
offered Mr S £25,000  before  the occupational physician  carried  out his assessment .
Unums more recent award of £30,000  technically sits outside  the terms of the policy. But 
this was made in line with the occupational physicians recommendation in order  to help 
Mr S continue the treatment he had been  self-funding and while he started to think about 
what his next steps might  be. I think Unum acted  fairly in offering Mr S £30,000  in full and 
final settlement of the claim.
Unum has confirmed that should Mr S wish to consider acceptance of this offer now, he can 
contact it to discuss further.
Ref: DRN32813554my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281355