K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs B have said Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. They  paid a monthly  amount 
for the policy. Even though this was a joint mortgage, only Mr B was covered by the PPI 
policy.
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP). A TMPP can be made up of three different elements  a PPI policy, life cover 
and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover can be added or taken out 
as the consumer wishes.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy  called Mortgage 
Repayment Cover - which  covered accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. If 
theyd made a successful claim, the policy wouldve paid out the full cost of the 
monthly repayments for up to two years.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax doesnt have  much of the paperwork from that time, which isnt surprising considering  
this was more  than 14 years ago. So I need  to decide what  I think  is most likely  to have 
happened.
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have  been  asked for 
their consent  to the cover.
And Ive also seen that the PPI cover  was only taken out by Mr B which would appear to 
suggest that there was a conversation about  the cover and, following that discussion, a 
choice was made to only cover Mr B.
So with the limited information  I have available to me I think  its more likely that
Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was optional and they agreed to buy it, knowing they could  
refuse if they didnt  want it, even if they dont remember  that now.  
Ref: DRN31597312Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs Bs repayments for up to 24 months  per claim if 
Mr B became too ill to work, or if he became unemployed. And as there couldve been 
serious consequences of not keeping up repayments on a debt secured against their home,  
if Mr B couldnt work or lost his job then the PPI meant their monthly  mortgage  payments 
wouldve been met. So I think the PPI policy couldve been helpful  to them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said but these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs B now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3159731