K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains about a number of problems with her Lloyds Bank PLC loan account.
background
Ms C says Lloyds took her loan repayment  on 1 June 2018 and not the agreed date of 7 
June 2018. She says that resulted in other direct debits being  returned as she didnt have 
enough money in her account. Ms C says she then cancelled the direct  debit and made 
manual loan repayments. She says she didnt  receive promised letters from Lloyds about 
what had happened. Ms C says she suffers from anxiety and her position  was made worse 
by receiving arrears letters from Lloyds. She also says she received a letter  from Lloyds 
referring to her as Mrs and that compensation was paid into her loan account by mistake. 
Ms C says Lloyds then took money  from her savings account to pay her loan and also sent 
her a letter telling her she had no referral  rights to us.
Ms C would like her loan or overdraft  written off due to whats  happened.
Lloyds accepted it made mistakes dealing with Ms Cs loan account and paid her 
compensation. It then provided further information in which it says Ms C hadnt kept to the 
terms of the loan agreement and that her payments were being recorded on occasions as 
additional payments.  Lloyds  says it didnt take the direct debit early in June 2018  but this 
was an attempt to re-try the May 2018 direct debit.
Ms C brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought  that Lloyds had acted unfairly 
and had made mistakes. He recommended Lloyds increase its compensation offer by a 
further £200. The investigator thought that Ms C called Lloyds on 16 May 2018 to make the 
contractual monthly payment  but Lloyds had made  a mistake by treating it as an additional 
payment. He thought that led to the problems in re-trying the direct debit again in June 2018 
and in the arrears  letters  being generated.
The investigator didnt  think Lloyds was responsible for any letters  not being received by Ms 
C but did think the letter telling Ms C that she didnt have referral rights delayed  matters. 
Overall the Investigator thought Lloyds could have handled matters far better.
Ms C has accepted the investigators recommendation.
Lloyds has provided  a detailed response  and in summary doesnt accept that further 
compensation is justified.  It says the payment in May 2018 was late and not a contractual 
payment. It also says Ms C accepted  its compensation  offer and thats why she was told she 
didnt have referral  rights  but in any event had been given those rights on other  complaints.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
conclusion that Lloyds should  pay further  compensation but for slightly  different reasons to 
those of the investigator. I should  also make clear that I think both parties have made  
mistakes here for reasons  I will explain.
Ive looked at Ms Cs loan history and can see that there have been  problems  in making a 
payment on the correct  date. I think it likely that happened in May 2018 and Lloyds were 
Ref: DRN30583532unable to collect the direct debit.  But I accept  Ms C called Lloyds on 16 May 2018  to make 
that months  payment. There is then no real dispute that the problems that were then caused  
were due to Lloyds recording that payment as an additional payment. I find that Ms C didnt 
want to make an additional payment and think it unlikely she could have afforded one in any 
event. So I think that Lloyds should have  then updated its records  and not made an attempt 
to take the May 2018 direct debit again in June 2018.
I have no doubt  that by doing so Ms C was caused distress and inconvenience as several  of 
her other direct debits  were returned. I have  no doubt she would have spent some time in 
sorting matters out and explaining to the businesses, that those direct debits related to , 
what had happened. I also accept that Ms C suffers from anxiety and accept what  she says 
that this caused  her stress.
I think it likely that Ms C mistakenly thought Lloyds had tried to take the June 18 direct debit 
early when in fact it hadnt and cancelled the direct  debit. I also think it likely  that led to 
Lloyds taking a payment  from Ms Cs savings account which I dont think  it should have and 
for the arrears letters being generated. I can see that Lloyds has apologised for that letter as 
well as for the letter referring  to Ms C as Mrs C.
I appreciate that Lloyds  sent Ms C a letter telling her that she didnt have referral rights  to us. 
I dont think Lloyds has explained why it sent that letter or what its reasons were for coming 
to that conclusion. But Im satisfied that it had sent Ms C a number of letters  with referral  
rights to us and I dont  think  that issue significantly delayed matters.
The main  issue here is the level of compensation. I can see that Lloyds has paid Ms C £35 
for the arrears letters mistake and £50 compensation for not amending  the payment it 
received on 16 May 2018. Lloyds has also paid £35 for referring to Ms C as Mrs. I can see 
that Lloyds has also made  a further  payment of £50 but its not clear  what that relates to. 
I think overall that the compensation  paid doesnt go far enough  and doesnt reflect the level 
of distress and inconvenience Ms C experienced. I also think  that it took some time for 
matters to be sorted out and that Ms C made  a number of calls to Lloyds and other  
businesses about  the problems. Whilst I accept  that the investigators recommendation is for 
a relatively high level of compensation for this type of case. I dont think that 
recommendation is unreasonable and so I think that Lloyds should pay a further £200 
compensation, which I also think fairlyreflects the fact that money was taken from Ms Cs 
savings account  and the inconvenience she was caused in asking for that money to be 
returned. 
I accept that part of the problem here has been  caused by Ms C not making the loan 
repayments on the agreed  date and by assuming a direct debit in June was being taken 
early. But I can see that shes now reinstated her direct debit so I hope that will avoid 
problems in the future. I also make it clear  to Ms C that I cant  fairly  order  Lloyds to either 
write off her loan or clear  her overdraft as she would like. As Im satisfied she has had the 
benefit of that money and that the circumstances here do not justify  that.
Ref: DRN30583533my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Ms C 
further compensation of £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3058353