K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the amount of compensation paid into his personal  pension by 
Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix)  after it undertook a pension  review in 2000 for the advice it 
had previously given  him to transfer his deferred  occupational scheme  benefits  into a 
personal pension.
background
Mr T was a member of the Shipbuilding  Industries  Pension Scheme from 1975 to 1989. 
Having left the scheme he then took out a personal pension  with Britannic (now part of 
Phoenix) and also transferred his previous occupational scheme benefits into the plan.  But 
he stopped paying contributions into the personal  pension in 1992.  
In 2000 Phoenix  contacted Mr T to explain that it was undertaking a review of his pension  
using the guidelines from the industry wide pension review  in relation to the advice hed 
previously been  given to transfer. As a result of the review Phoenix  said it was paying Mr T 
compensation, but as it couldnt  reinstate him into the occupational scheme the money was 
paid into his personal pension and represented the loss of benefits he had  and would  
incur from his scheme. 
In June 2006 the fund  with a value then of £52,010  was transferred to another  provider 
and invested into a managed fund. 
In 2018 Mr T complained  to Phoenix. He said hed become  aware that a number of ex-
colleagues were  receiving far higher  pensions  than him and he believed  the compensation 
hed received wasnt sufficient to make up for the shortfall hed suffered. 
Phoenix didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said it had reviewed the advice to transfer his 
pension in 2000 in line with the industry wide pension review guidelines. It said it offered 
Mr T £9,342   which he had accepted, and which was paid into his personal pension as 
redress for the advice.  Phoenix said that figure was increased in December 2001  when it 
revised the way it valued personal  pension  funds. But Phoenix said that it wasnt obliged  to 
carry out any further reviews and had done  what it was supposed to do according to the 
pension review guidelines.
Unhappy with the outcome Mr T brought his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. In 
summary she said:
Under pension  review guidelines providers  were obliged to reinstate an investors 
rights back  into the occupational  pension  scheme or  if that couldnt be done   to 
enhance an investors personal pension. She thought Phoenix had done that in Mr Ts 
case.
Phoenix had carried  out a loss calculation and made an offer of redress for its advice 
which Mr T had accepted by signing an offer letter in full and final settlement.
Phoenix made an additional payment  to Mr T when it revised its actuarial calculation 
a year later.
Ref: DRN31073212Phoenix sent correspondence  to the address it held on file for Mr T. And Mr T did 
return some  documents  to Phoenix about the review  and he didnt say the address 
was incorrect.
Evidence would suggest that Mr T didnt make Phoenix aware of a change  of 
address until 2003. 
The basic inputting of the pension review calculation appeared to be correct. 
However, this service wouldnt usually cross check the actual calculation.
The review was designed to be a one off exercise  which  it seemed Phoenix had 
completed  and as such there  was no regulatory requirement for it to carry out 
subsequent calculations.  
Mr T didnt  agree. He said at the time of the review he wasnt living at the address Phoenix 
said it sent the letters to, and the offer letter  which had been  returned  had been 
completed and signed  by his ex-wife. He said Phoenix should have checked the signature 
more carefully. He didnt  understand  how Phoenix werent aware  that he had moved  as his 
old adviser was aware he no longer lived at the address. He also believed he hadnt been 
fully compensated  for the amount of money  hed lost, compared to ex- colleagues hed 
spoken to.
As no resolution could  be found the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive some  sympathy for Mr Ts position as 
he now finds himself with a smaller  pension  than he would  have got if hed not transferred 
his deferred occupational scheme benefits. But I dont think Phoenix has done  anything 
wrong here  which I know will come as a disappointment to Mr T, so Ill explain why,
Its not in dispute  that Phoenix  has accepted that Mr T was given unsuitable advice to 
transfer his scheme  benefits into a personal pension.  But Mr T thinks the compensation he 
received wasnt enough  to make  up for the shortfall hes suffered.
The aim of the Pensions Review was effectively to draw  a line under  any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, which recognised  the 
impracticalities of waiting until someone  retired  which might not be for 20 years  or so in 
Mr Ts case, before assessing any loss. The aim of the compensation calculation  was to 
work out what would  be enough to increase the value of Mr Ts personal pension plan to 
provide the same level of benefits  as his occupational scheme would have provided. And 
from everything Ive seen Phoenix  carried out the review it was required to.
For many  people, such as Mr T, there was a long period  left until their retirement  date. So 
the calculations  had to be based on a number of assumptions of what  might  happen 
between then and the retirement  date. The regulator  set down how the calculation needed to 
be run, and the assumptions that businesses had to use to assess any loss. Unfortunately  
with investment returns reducing and annuity  rates falling, the assumptions that were  used 
have meant  that the benefits  provided  by personal pensions  are lower than might reasonably 
have been anticipated. 
Ref: DRN31073213So although  the value of Mr Ts personal pension was increased with the aim of matching 
the benefits payable from the occupational  scheme, subsequent economic events have 
meant this wont  unfortunately for Mr T, now happen. But thats not Phoenixs fault as it did 
the calculation  based on what guidelines it was given  by the regulator at the time. Any 
additional shortfall that might have occurred after the review took place is with the benefit of 
hindsight and changing economic factors, which  werent know  at the time of the calculation. 
Phoenix was required  to carry out internal  quality  assurance checks  to ensure that the 
calculations were correct  and in line with the guidance. It would also have been subject to 
regular inspections from the regulator  to ensure  that the review  had been  carried out in line 
with the guidance. From what Ive seen Phoenix  carried out the exercise  correctly  and paid 
the appropriate redress amount. 
I should say that I do understand why Mr T is unhappy with the Pensions Review  
methodology and therefore feels Phoenixs calculation (and offer of compensation) was 
perhaps incomplete. But this was the then regulators  decision on how to deal with the mis-
selling problem. And so its not something this service  can now challenge  or ignore. 
Mr T said he wasnt living at the address Phoenix said it sent the correspondence to at that 
time. But I note that in February 2001  Phoenix wrote  to Mr T to thank him for a completed 
acceptance form.  Mr T has also said that he didnt complete the form and it must have been 
sent back by his ex-wife   and Phoenix should have checked the signatures on the form 
more carefully. 
But there isnt any evidence to suggest that Mr T made Phoenix aware of a change of 
address until Mr T himself  called to update  the address in 2005.  And Ive seen how Phoenix 
did send the letter to the address it had on record for him at the time. So I cant safely  say 
Phoenix did anything  wrong there. And as it received a completed acceptance form I think  
Phoenix acted correctly in applying the compensation to Mr Ts personal plan at that time. I 
know Mr T says Phoenix should have  been more diligent  it checking  the signature   Phoenix 
says it did and the signature  is a reasonable match for what  it had on record for Mr T  but if 
Mr T believes the form was fraudulently completed  then he should take up that matter with a 
service better suited to investigate such matters.
Ive also seen Phoenixs telephone notes from November 1999 which confirmed it spoke to 
Mr T about his employment  history  with regards to the review. So, Im satisfied that Mr T was 
aware that Phoenix was looking into his situation. And I think  on balance   that Mr T would 
have expected an outcome to that investigation. So I think its likely he would have  contacted 
Phoenix at some point  if he hadnt  received a satisfactory outcome. 
As Ive already  said I have some sympathy with Mr Ts position but as Ive explained,  the 
Pensions Review was an industry wide standardised process and I think Phoenix complied 
with this. Its offer was accepted by Mr T in 2001  in a letter which said I confirm that this 
settlement shall constitute full and final settlement for any claim whatsoever
final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN31073214ombudsman
Ref: DRN3107321