K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Thurlby  Motors  Limited  (acting as a credit broker)  misled him as to the 
trade-in value for a car he used in part exchange when acquiring a new car under a 
Personal Contract Purchase (PCP).
background 
In June 2017  Mr R attended  a dealership with the intention of obtaining a new car for 
himself. After speaking with the salesman  he agreed to enter into a PCP and to use his 
current car in part exchange.  A trade-in value for his car was discussed and agreed. There 
was an outstanding credit  balance  for Mr Rs current car that needed to be cleared so the 
figures for the new credit  agreement were based  on an equity of £5200 that Mr R had in 
that car.
The salesman told Mr R that the new car he wanted  wasnt in stock  and so could take up 
to three  months to arrive.  Mr R paid a deposit  for the new car.
Two days later Mr R returned to the dealership as he said he thought the figure  for the 
trade- in value was too low. Mr R says that the salesman  explained that due to the delay in 
the arrival  of the new car an amount for the continued depreciation of his current car had 
been factored  in. The order forms for the new car were completed.
Mr R eventually went to the dealership to collect  his new car in September. Mr R was 
provided with a revised credit agreement which now gave a different valuation for the car he 
was trading in. The value  for the car had been  reduced by £344.25 (the equivalent  of the 
two monthly payments Mr R had made  under the old credit agreement).
Mr R says that he complained about  this reduction  but the salesman told him he was 
now committed to taking the new car. Mr R signed the new agreement  and took the new 
car home.
A short time later Mr R complained to Thurlby Motors about the differences  in the 
valuation for the part exchange. When he received no response  he made a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She said that 
generally it wouldnt be unreasonable  for a trade-in value to be reviewed  after three  months 
but she didnt  think it had been made clear to Mr R by the dealership  that this could 
happen.
However, despite the reduction in the trade-in value thered been no change in the 
amount of finance being taken out by Mr R for the new car. This was because  the equity 
had remained the same at £5200 as although  the value of the car had decreased so had 
the outstanding balance  that needed  to be settled.
The investigator also said that Mr R had signed the finance agreement and had agreed to 
be bound  by its terms and conditions. One of these terms  was that if the new car was not 
delivered within 30 days then the price offered  for any vehicle in part exchange  could be 
reduced. Thurlby Motors  had worked in line with this term.
Ref: DRN34783962The investigator said Mr R had later signed  a second finance in August 2017 and she 
wouldve expected  Mr R to raise any objections  about the trade-in value at that time but 
he hadnt done so.
In conclusion the investigator said she thought it was unlikely that Mr R wouldnt have taken 
the new car even if hed known the trade-in value hadnt been  guaranteed. Hed been 
happy with the credit agreement figures which had not altered.
Mr R disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he didnt think the process of 
purchasing the car had been  clear and transparent. And although hed agreed to be 
bound by the terms of the agreement he thought the trade-in value  that had been agreed 
had already taken  into account any potential depreciation that may arise from the delay in 
the new car arriving. He said the second financial agreement had been presented to him 
in September  when  he attended to collect the car. Hed been told he had to take the car 
and thought he had no choice. He felt hed been  misled and had he known the valuation 
would alter he wouldnt have proceeded as hed originally been interested in a different 
car.
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision along the following 
lines. Id seen that Mr R felt strongly that hed been  misled by the dealership about the 
valuation it had given  for his old car. Thurlby  Motors  said Mr R wasnt  misled as hed never 
been given a guarantee that the valuation would remain unchanged.  It said that Mr R was 
told that the equity value  would  remain the same at £5,200 and that he had misunderstood. 
Thurlby Motors also said that the figures in the credit agreement hadnt altered as the cost 
of the new car, credit amount and repayments had all remained the same.  The financial 
agreement was clear  and Mr R signed and agreed it.
Id seen that Mr R had signed  the original credit agreement in June 2017. This set out that 
the trade-in value of his old car was £7522.89  with a settlement due of £2322.89. This had 
left a balance of £5200 to go towards  the cost of a new car. The total amount of credit  was 
given.
Mr R said hed expected  to benefit from the payments he was continuing to make under his 
original agreement while he waited  for the new car to be delivered.
When evidence is missing  or contradictory  then I have to decide what I think  is the most  
likely thing to have happened. Mr R and Thurlby Motors didnt agree about what was 
said. Mr R said he was unhappy  about  the trade-in  value given for his car so hed gone 
back to the dealership and queried  it. He said hed only signed  the credit  agreement and 
order form after speaking again  with the salesman who had said that the delay  in the new 
car arriving had been  factored into that trade-in  value.
While I appreciated that Mr R believed Thurlby Motors had misled him I thought  it was 
more likely than not that he had misunderstood  which figure was guaranteed. This was 
because the delay in the delivery of the new car had been  known from the outset and so 
issues with the trade-in car depreciating in value and possible changes to the purchase 
price of the new car wouldve needed to be factored into the credit agreement  figures.    
Mr R hadnt described  any discussion about altering the credit agreement  figures once the 
car arrived or that the first agreement  was only providing guideline figures for him.
Mr R said over the three months  he waited for the new car to arrive he sent Thurlby  Motors 
the reducing settlement figures  for his current car as he received them from the finance  
Ref: DRN34783963company. While I could appreciate why Mr R did this I hadnt  seen that Thurlby Motors  had 
asked him to or that it had acknowledged receipt  of these statements.
I s seen that Mr R was given a second  new Vehicle  Order form together with a new finance  
agreement when he went to collect the car in September. Mr R had refused to sign the new 
order form as he was unhappy about discovering the trade-in value for his car had been  
reduced. I didnt agree  with our investigator  that Mr R wouldve been  able to voice an 
objection to the decreased value of the trade-in before hed gone to the dealership  to collect 
the new car as he hadnt been aware  of this change until he went to actually collect  his new 
car.
Mr R said he was told by the salesman that he had to take the car because  hed signed the 
first credit agreement  and order form. I didnt think it was unreasonable  to consider that the 
second credit agreement had simply been an amendment of the first agreement. The only 
difference was the depreciated value of the trade-in  car. The amount of credit and 
repayments were both the same and the car had been  ordered and delivered.
So although  I thought  Mr R had misunderstood  what was agreed about the value placed on 
the car he was trading-in I did think it was reasonable to conclude  that the salesman hadnt 
been as clear as he shouldve  been  with Mr R about what  figure was being  guaranteed. I 
thought it shouldve been discussed in more detail  about what trade-in values  and equity 
values meant. I could  appreciate why someone might get confused if the difference in 
those terms wasnt explained and it was for Thurlby to explain it fully.
Mr R said he wouldnt have taken  this car if hed known the trade-in value wasnt  going to be 
reduced. But I didnt think I could reasonably accept that. Hed been  happy with the original 
credit agreement figures and had chosen and ordered  the car. Hed been aware there was a 
delay in the car being delivered  and had been prepared to wait for it.
However, I could appreciate Mr R had been upset  about this misunderstanding.  As 
Thurlby had contributed to it through poor service  I thought that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Thurlby  Motors to pay him £100  as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Thurlby Motors has agreed  with my provisional decision and Mr R has said he has no 
comments he would like to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor Thurlby  Motors have raised  any contrary arguments to my provisional 
decision I havent changed my mind.  So, for the reasons given above, I think  its fair and 
reasonable for Thurlby Motors to pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not ensuring he had fully understood  that it was the equity figure 
that had been guaranteed.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint and Im asking Thurlby  
Motors Limited to pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN34783964Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3478396