K821x#15complaint and background 
Mr and Mrs W say National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them  a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 2003.  
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said NatWest failed to 
provide clear  enough information on the exclusions  relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions. And this mattered to Mr and Mrs W as Mr W had such a condition at the time of 
the sale, so he wouldnt have been  able to claim as he expected to.
The bank disagreed. It asked for more information  on Mr Ws condition.  On receipt of this it 
made an offer, without  admission of liability, to refund Mr Ws half of the premiums paid. It 
said the policy wasnt mis-sold to Mrs W as there was no evidence more  information on the 
exclusions would have  impacted her decision  to take out the cover.
Mr and Mrs W were not happy with this offer, saying they never agreed to the policy so it 
shouldnt have been sold in the first place  to either  of them.  So the complaint was passed 
to me. 
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint in part. I asked  Mr and Mrs W and NatWest to let me have 
any more information  by 7 December 2019 before I made a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here) Ive reached my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence  we do 
have and what we know about how NatWest usually  sold PPI at the time. As an independent 
and impartial organisation we dont  act on behalf of either consumers or banks - theres  no 
benefit for us to find in the favour of one party  over the other.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
The bank responded to my provisional decision saying it had no further information to add 
and agreeing to settle the complaint as Id set out. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with my provisional decision, maintaining that the PPI was mis-sold 
to them  both, not just to Mr W. 
Whilst they provided no new evidence, they raised a number of points and I have considered 
them all carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal  dispute resolution service, I will 
comment briefly  here only on those I consider relevant to the outcome. 
Mr and Mrs W were uncertain  when  their policy was live. The banks records show  it was in 
place between 21 October 2003 and 14 April 2009.  I have  seen no other evidence to 
suggest this information is inaccurate.
They asked if they had knowingly bought  PPI, why didnt they try to claim on the policy in 
2005 when they say Mr W was off work  for six weeks?  Similarly they asked why they would 
have chosen to take out PPI with the further advance, but not before. Whilst I could 
Ref: DRN39730742speculate, these are issues  I cant know the answer to, but Im not persuaded they are on 
their own evidence that clearly shows Mr and Mrs W were mis-sold the policy.
Mr and Mrs W challenged my finding that with more information Mrs W probably wouldnt 
have made  a different decision,  saying  assumptions  have been  made  about  Mrs Ws health. 
But this is not the case. We asked whether Mrs W had any health problems when she took 
out the insurance, and were told no.
They asked how the bank can say this was discussed verbally if there is no telephone  
recording. The bank  has provided the customer notes  that its advisers made between 2003 
and 2016 and this is the source of this comment.  The notes say Advised customer  (Mrs) 
mortgage repayment does not include MRPI, that would be set up as a separate  direct  
debit.
Mr and Mrs W said their parents would also have helped, further showing they did not need 
PPI. But I wouldnt consider help from friends  or family to be suitable alternative protection   
its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.
They also asked if the bank didnt recommend the PPI, who did? But my finding  in relation to 
this point was that there was no recommendation made during the sale.  What I mean by this 
is that there  was no evidence that NatWest looked at Mr and Mrs Ws individual  
circumstances before making  a tailored recommendation. This impacts  what the bank was 
obliged to do  and as no recommendation was made,  it didnt have to check if the PPI was 
suitable for them. Mr and Mrs W had to decide  this for themselves, based on the information  
provided by NatWest.
Mr and Mrs W go on to say since Nat West has agreed that Mr W wasnt  given all the 
information he needed to make an informed  decision, then doesnt the balance of 
probabilities suggest there was no adequate discussion  with Mrs W either? As I said in my 
provisional decision, I agree its possible there  were  failings  in the provision of information to 
both of them. But for all the reasons set out in the provisional decision I dont think that this 
was to the detriment  of Mrs W in the same way as Mr W. So I cant fairly  uphold the 
complaint on this point.  
Mr and Mrs W also say they believed the PPI cost on the mortgage  quote was for mortgage 
fees. But I cant find the bank at fault for that misunderstanding; the wording clearly said 
Mortgage Repayments Protector Premium  (Optional). 
Finally, they raised  the point that Mr W took out additional life insurance in 2017 and why 
would they do this if they had PPI cover. But life insurance and PPI are very different 
products  life insurance does not help with monthly  mortgage repayments in the same  way 
as PPI. And a separate point - as I confirmed  earlier - is that Mr and Mrs Ws PPI policy had 
anyway ended in 2009. 
In their response to the provisional  decision,  Mr and Mrs W also commented on Mrs Ws 
adequate sick pay and it not being  made  clear  the PPI was optional in the manner  they 
would expect. I covered  both these issues in the provisional decision,  and as no new 
evidence has been provided for me to review, I can find no grounds to change my previous 
findings.
 
Ref: DRN39730743I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed and frustrated, having put time and effort  into their 
complaint. But after reviewing their additional comments  in full, for the reasons explained 
above I have found no reason to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I am upholding  this complaint in part.
putting things right
NatWest must put Mr and Mrs W in the position  theyd be in now if Mr W hadnt taken out 
PPI. It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for Mr Ws PPI (NatWest has 
confirmed it will base this on a 50:50 split of premiums)
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, NatWest can take off the value 
of the claim from the amount it owes. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr and
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  the complaint in part and National Westminster Bank Plc must pay 
Mr and Mrs W compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39730744copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W say National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a policy by phone in 2003 to protect their repayments at the same  time as they 
took out a further advance on their mortgage. The cover  gave them accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.  They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should be upheld. She said the bank failed  to provide 
clear enough information  on the exclusions  relating  to pre-existing medical conditions.  And this 
mattered to Mr and Mrs W as Mr W had such a condition  at the time of the sale, so he wouldnt have 
been able to claim  as he expected  to.
The bank disagreed.  It asked for more  information on Mr Ws condition.  On receipt of this it made  an 
offer, without admission  of liability, to refund Mr Ws half of the premiums paid. It said the policy  wasnt 
mis-sold to Mrs W as there  was no evidence  more information on the exclusions would have impacted  
her decision to take out the cover.
Mr and Mrs W were  not happy with this offer, saying they never agreed  to the policy so it shouldnt 
have been sold in the first place  to either of them. So the complaint  was passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in part. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  clear  the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs W had to agree  to take it out. They 
say they didnt  agree  to buy it. Theres no call recording, transcript  or sales script available and thats 
not unreasonable given  how long ago the sale was, but it means I cant  know what was said on the 
call. So I have  looked at the available  paperwork  from the sale. 
The information the bank  recorded when  they applied  for the further advance shows that they wanted 
PPI and they selected cover for both of them. On their mortgage quotation the cost of the PPI was set 
out separately with the note (Optional) next to it. The letter they were sent after the call included a 
direct debit mandate for the PPI that they were asked to sign and return. And there was nothing  in any 
of the paperwork that I think could reasonably  have led Mr and Mrs W to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. The bank  has supplied records that show the direct debit mandate  was returned by Mr 
and Mrs W, and that it discussed verbally  with Mrs W prior to the policy  starting that the PPI would be 
a separate payment. 
I have considered Mr and Mrs Ws comments carefully  but I also have to take into account  how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what they recall. Overall, I think the balance of evidence  
shows its most likely NatWest made it clear the PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs W agreed to 
take it. So I cant uphold  their complaint on this point. 
NatWest didnt recommend  the PPI so it didnt have to make sure the policy was right for 
Ref: DRN39730745Mr and Mrs W. This means it was up to them to decide if they needed  the protection given the other 
ways they had to meet their mortgage  repayments  if they were not working. But NatWest did have to 
give clear,  fair and not misleading information about the PPI so that they could make a properly  
informed choice.
Theyve told us they dont  recall seeing  the PPI leaflets they have since been sent at the time of the 
sale. They werent  told about it. I agree its possible there might  have been areas in which NatWest 
didnt give Mr and Mrs W as much information as it shouldve done.  But I dont  think  better  information  
wouldve put them off taking out the PPI for Mrs W. I say this because:
Mrs W was eligible  for the cover,  and wouldnt have been affected  by any of the main  things 
not covered by the policy.
Mrs W was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay from her job. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits,  and for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim. Given the serious  consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the 
PPI wouldve been useful for them if Mrs W was sick or lost her job.
The cost was made clear on the mortgage  quotation.  And the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable.
I do, however, think better information  would  have made a difference to their decision to take out 
cover for Mr W. I say this as he had a pre-existing medical condition and this meant he might not have 
been able to make a successful claim under  the policy  when he expected to be able to. I cant see the 
bank pointed  out this exclusion to Mr W. NatWest has already  agreed to uphold, without admission of 
liability, this part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint so I will make no further comment. I have set out below  
what the bank will need to do to put things right if my decision  remains unchanged.  
I note Mr and Mrs W told us they have had two other complaints  upheld by the bank  but I can only 
comment here on the merits of this case. I would add, however, the outcome of each complaint will 
vary based on a number  of factors, including  but not limited to  how and when the PPI was sold, 
the price and benefit level,  the credit  product it was attached to and the terms and conditions of the 
policy, as well as the complainants circumstances. 
putting things  right
If my decision remains unchanged, NatWest  will need to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  theyd be in 
now if Mr W hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, 
and NatWest should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for Mr Ws PPI (the bank has confirmed 
it will base this on a 50:50 split of premiums)
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made under the PPI policy, NatWest can take off the value of the 
claim from the amount  it owes. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr and
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN39730746my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in part.  
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3973074