K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited have declined their 
home insurance claim.
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs A made an accidental damage  claim for their laptop. They 
said it developed  a fault and stopped  working when it fell onto a hard surface from a kitchen 
worktop.
Lloyds arranged for the laptop to be assessed  by an engineer.  The engineer  said they could  
see some  small  dents  on the laptop but the fault was due to a failure of one of the 
components - which wouldnt have been caused  by a fall.
Lloyds declined Mr and Mrs As claim.  They said the report confirmed the fault was due to a 
mechanical failure caused by wear and tear- which was excluded  from the policy.  
Mr and Mrs A took the laptop to an independent  engineer. In their report  they said the fault 
could have been caused by a drop on a hard surface. They said they were unable  to test if 
the laptop had other  faults as it wouldnt boot up into the operating system. They also said 
the model was about eight years old and wasnt worth  repairing as the manufacturer  had 
previously recalled it. Lloyds reviewed this but it didnt change  their decision.
As Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy with Lloyds decision they brought their complaint  here.  
Theyd like Lloyds to accept their claim and provide  a written apology.
Our investigator recommended we didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. She found it was 
more than likely the damage related to wear  and tear - so Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mr and Mrs As claim, as the exclusion applied  to them.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree. They said the laptop  stopped working after it fell from the kitchen 
worktop and the fall disturbed the components  inside causing the issues  so the faults are a 
result of accidental damage.
The complaint has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint. I know this will be disappointing but Ill explain 
why.
Lloyds can decide  what risks they will and wont cover under the policy - and the terms and 
conditions define  what those are. I need to decide  whether Lloyds  acted in line with the 
policy terms and if their decision to decline the claim is fair and reasonable. 
The term Lloyds has relied  on says it doesnt cover  any loss or damage caused  by wear and 
tear. It defines wear  and tear as damage that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result of 
Ref: DRN33399792normal wear or ageing  and gives an example of this as a mechanical  item such  as 
televisions or computers  breaking  down due to age.
From looking  at the two reports Im more persuaded by the report provided by Lloyds. I say 
this because this report gives a specific reason for the cause of the fault  it was caused by 
the failure of a specific component and not from the drop. The report  Mr and Mrs A provided 
only says the fault could  have been  caused  by a drop on a hard surface.  But it doesnt say 
this was the reason for the fault  and it doesnt  give any specific  diagnosis  or much 
additional detail.  Lloyds report also includes photos of the laptop. Although I can see some 
small dents,  I cant see any other damage  from the photos - which Id reasonably expect  
from the laptop dropping onto a hard surface  from the worktop. So I think it was fair for 
Lloyds to rely on their report and to decline the claim.  So I wont be asking  them to do 
anything.
I know Mr and Mrs A feel strongly about  their claim  and theyve discussed with our 
investigator whether  it wouldve been  accepted  if, for example, the screen was also broken 
during the fall. But it wasnt  and I can only consider what did happen and whether Lloyds 
have acted fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint  so I dont  require 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3339979