K820x#14Complaint
Mrs O complains about fees and charges applied to her current account by Lloyds Bank  PLC 
and says they have caused financial difficulty. 
Background
Mrs O opened her Lloyds bank account in 2001.  Mrs O has an overdraft limit of £500. Over  
the years  shes incurred bank charges for using her overdraft, exceeding the overdraft limit 
and when items are returned unpaid. 
Mrs O complained to Lloyds about  charges  in 2015  and it responded on 22 September 2015. 
Lloyds refunded £680 of charges to Miss Os account. Miss O complained about charges 
again last year and Lloyds  responded  on 17 September 2019. Lloyds didnt agree the 
charges had been incorrectly applied  and didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. 
Mrs O asked our service  to look at her complaint  and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said the charges Lloyds applied before 22 September 2015 couldnt be 
considered because Mrs O hadnt referred  her complaint about them to us within  six months 
of Lloyds response. I later issued a decision that confirmed Mrs Os complaint about 
charges applied before 22 September 2015 was out of time. The investigator went on to 
send Mrs O a further assessment talking about why her concerns relating to Lloyds decision 
to approve an overdraft had also been  made  too late. 
The investigator also looked at the fees and charges applied  by Lloyds since 
22 September 2015. He was satisfied they had been applied correctly  and didnt uphold  Mrs 
Os complaint. As Mrs O didnt  accept  the investigators view her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my previous decision I explained why we can only look at the charges  Lloyds  has applied 
since 22 September 2015.  Ive now reviewed Mrs Os account statements, the associated  
terms and conditions and supporting evidence  to decide whether fees and charges have 
been applied  correctly. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs O but, having reviewed everything, I 
havent found any evidence of a mistake by Lloyds. 
Businesses are allowed to charge customers for going over an overdraft limit, if items like 
direct debits are returned unpaid and for operating the account outside the agreed terms. 
But to do that the terms have  to be clear about when charges will be applied. 
Lloyds account  terms allow  it to charge customers for exceeding an overdraft limit or if an 
item is returned unpaid.  Mrs Os statements show that when these situations occur Lloyds 
charges her. But, as Ive said, thats in line with the terms. 
The charges  applied changed around November 2015 when Lloyds amended its fees 
structure. I appreciate  that mean  Mrs Os costs  increased. But Lloyds is allowed under  the 
terms to change the fees it apples  to accounts by giving reasonable notice. And Im satisfied 
it took that step in this case.  
Ref: DRN37883592When customers are experiencing  financial difficulties businesses  are obliged to treat them 
positively and sympathetically. But Id normally expect the account holder to contact the 
business and let them know about the difficulties they have in order to see if help can be 
provided. Lloyds  has sent us its contact notes but they dont show that Mrs O has contacted 
it about financial difficulties. If Mrs O remains in financial difficulties as she can contact 
Lloyds to see what help is available. 
Having reviewed all the available evidence, I havent seen anything to show  the charges 
applied to Mrs Os account  were unfair or incorrect. As I havent found anything to show 
Lloyds has made a mistake and Im satisfied its dealt with Miss Os complaint  fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3788359