K822xComplaint
Mr E has complained that IG Markets Limited  (IG) changed his spread  betting account to 
limited risk in October 2017. And as a result he thinks he has suffered losses  on his trading 
account.
Background 
Mr E opened  his spread betting  account  with IG Markets Limited (IG) in 2014 and began  
trading. 
IG has said that on 13 October 2017  Mr E was given a premium  account  manager. He 
emailed Mr E introducing  himself and after a few email exchanges, it was clear  Mr E was 
unhappy with the losses hed suffered on his account (€109,000).  And IG became concerned 
about the affordability of the account.  Because of this, IG chose to change Mr Es account to 
limited risk to reduce the possibility  of future  losses.
Mr E wasnt  happy that IG restricted his account  to limited risk. In response to his 
concerns, IG said that when Mr E opened the account; the customer agreement made it 
clear that the account he held was an execution only account.  
IG went on to say it didnt have a duty to consider whether the account or trades Mr E placed 
were suitable for him. But IG did explain that in line with COBS 2.1.1 it had to act in 
accordance with the best interests of Mr E. And it is because of this and the comments  he 
had made  to it in October and December 2017, which it thought  suggested that affordability 
of the account  might  be an issue. As a result  IG decided to put Mr Es account  on limited  risk 
in October and eventually closed  the account  in the December.
Mr Es complaint was looked into by one of our investigators.  She explained why she was 
upholding Mr Es complaint in part. Mr E didnt agree and explained why he thought IG 
should be responsible for all of his losses after October 2017. As a result the case has been 
passed to me for review.
 My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Es complaint in part. Ill explain why.
It seems  to me that the key question I need  to consider in this case is whether based on the 
information IG had about Mr E from October 2017; did it act correctly in limiting Mr Es 
account in October  and closing it in December 2017.  Im satisfied from everything  Ive seen 
that IG started to have  concerns  about whether Mr Es trading account was in his best 
interests from October 2017.  
Looking at the correspondence from October  2017, I think  IG was correct to be concerned  
about whether  the trading  account was in Mr Es best interests.  I say this because  Mr E 
explained his position to IG, in that he was trying  to make a profitable business  and recoup 
losses that he had incurred in his trading. And those losses were  substantial.  Mr E seems  to 
think that IG bear responsibility for his losses from that point. Hes said in his e-mail to this 
service of 18 February 2018:  
Ref: DRN36145222Im not speaking for the losses before  20 October  2017I take responsibility  for those 
myself.
Whilst changing Mr Es account to a limited risk basis may have reduced  Mr Es risk to 
slippage in his trading  positions, by leaving his account open, I believe IG allowed Mr E to 
continue trading using the same amount of leverage he had used  on his previous trades. 
And this left the existing funds in his account very much exposed  to market  volatility.  So if IG 
had concerns about the affordability of the account,  it seems to me that it should have closed 
Mr Es account in the October when he first told it about his losses  and difficult  personal 
circumstances.
IG has said that it wasnt until Mr Es e-mail in December 2017 that it realised the IG account 
as a whole  wasnt  in his best interests,  regardless of the steps it had put in place to protect 
him. I dont  agree  with IGs argument. It appears to me that when Mr E wrote to IG in 
December 2017  nothing had really changed  from what he had told it about his 
circumstances and losses in the October.
When Mr E corresponded with IG in the October  he had made it aware  of the substantial 
losses he had incurred  over time.  And his e mail of 
6 December 2017 expanded on what had occurred since his account  had been changed to 
limited risk in the October.  Im satisfied from everything Ive seen that IG ought reasonably to 
have been aware  in October 2017 that the trading account was no longer appropriate for Mr 
E and not in his best interests. And I think it should  have closed his account then rather  than 
let Mr E continue to trade and incur further  losses. 
However Ive also taken into account  that Mr E wanted to continue  trading and continued to 
place trades  in November 2017. So I think he does have some  responsibility for the losses 
he incurred between October 2017 and the account  being closed in December 2017. But for 
the reasons Ive set out above, I do think IG should bear some  responsibility as well for 
Mr Es losses, as it didnt in my view close his account when it should have. 
Putting things  right
Ive explained  why I think IG has some responsibility for Mr Es losses between October and 
December 2017.  In terms of putting things right I think IG should pay Mr E compensation 
equal to 25% of the money he lost after his account was converted  to limited  risk. Im also 
satisfied that Mr E has suffered distress and inconvenience  as a result  of IGs actions. From 
what hes told us its clearly had an impact on him. So I think  IG should pay Mr E £150  for 
the trouble and upset hes been  caused  as a result  of what  has happened.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is to uphold  in part Mr Es complaint  
about IG Markets Limited. And if Mr E accepts  my decision, I direct it to pay Mr E 
compensation as Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr E to accept or reject  my decision before 9 September 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36145223
Ref: DRN3614522