K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (BPF) miscalculated the early  settlement  figure on his fixed sum loan.  He wants  a 
refund of all the interest hes paid on the loan.
background
Mr P tells us he took out a fixed sum loan in June 2016 - with an original term of 60 months. 
He said he decided to pay off the loan early and obtained a settlement figure from BPF. He 
says the figure provided was incorrect and that he was never told hed be paying off more 
interest at the start of the loan. Mr P says hes worked out the correct figure and he feels 
hes been charged over £1,800 in excess interest.
BPF told us the fixed sum loan was repaid by Mr P in December 2018.  It explained  the loan 
was subject to front-loaded interest.  It said it had calculated  the interest rebate using a 
computer programme that had been  authorised  and used for many  years.  And that the 
interest was calculated on a daily basis dependent on the balance  outstanding. BPF said the 
terms and conditions of the loan did not state  that interest rebates would be calculated  in the 
way Mr P suggested.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He explained  that - as 
the capital outstanding is at its highest  at the start of the loan - the interest payable is 
correspondingly higher. As the loan is repaid and the capital  owing is reduced  this leads to a 
lower proportion of interest being paid later. So whilst he found Mr P had repaid the loan 
half-way through, that didnt entitle  him to a full rebate of half the total interest.
Mr P didnt accept this outcome and said the terms and conditions of the agreement stated 
interest would  be divided  equally each month. As its not been possible to reach a resolution  
an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps concern and disappointment that the settlement figure provided to 
terminate his loan early was higher than he expected.
This is quite  a common type of complaint amongst customers  who feel theyve been charged 
too much  interest  when  a loan has been  paid off early. 
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And here the relevant 
legislation is contained  in The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004.
This legislation  (Regulation 4) sets out a complex  formula by which the lender must calculate 
any rebate  of interest - and in practice  the sum has to be processed by computer. 
I can see Mr P feels the terms and conditions of his agreement  meant that interest would be 
evenly spread throughout the agreement.  But that is not what  the terms and conditions  
indicate.
Ref: DRN38706672The agreement states:
We will calculate interest and add it to the loan amount  at the rate shown,
beginning on the date we pay the dealer,  until you have repaid the loan in
full.
We calculate the amount of interest by multiplying the loan amount by the
interest rate and then by the number of years  the loan is spread over. We
then add the answer to the loan amount  and divided the new figure by the
number of months the loan is spread over to calculate your monthly payment
amount.
As the adjudicator explained  in his view, this results  in equal monthly payments  throughout 
the scheduled term of the loan - not equal  payments of interest.  
And the terms and conditions also contain  the following under the heading:
information about your loan
At any time during this agreement you can ask us for a free
statement which contains a table showing the amounts of your
repayments (broken  down to show the interest  and loan amounts)
and the dates you paid them or the dates they are due.
Im not aware any such request was made  and its not disputed that BPF issued annual  
statements as it was required to do.
And as Mr P has referred  to other finance  agreements - where  he says hes been provided 
with a breakdown  of interest and capital  repayments  - I think  its likely that he knew  or ought 
reasonably to have  known  how the interest  on this agreement was calculated.
I dont agree with Mr Ps own calculations - as they do not appear to have been made in 
accordance with the either the finance  agreement or the relevant legislation. And Ive seen 
no evidence which leads  me to believe that BPF has calculated  the settlement figure  
incorrectly.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr P Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3870667