K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a Premier Life 
packaged bank  account in 2010.  Mr M paid a monthly fee for the account which  provided  
several benefits in return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  December  
2018. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here. 
In my provisional decision I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In 
summary, I said that as Mr M had made  a claim on the accounts  travel insurance which paid 
out over £16,000,  I didnt  think Barclays  would need to pay Mr M anything  even if I thought 
the account had been mis-sold.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Barclays  didnt 
provide any further  comments and Mr M made  a number of points which Ill now address.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has clearly  pointed  out the my provisional decision didnt address the way the Premier 
Life account was sold to him. He reiterated that he w was told he took it because  he was 
promised it would allow him access to an overdraft, regardless of the results the credit 
search.
I thought about  this point  before I issued my provisional decision, and whilst I absolutely  
understand what Mr M has said, I also explained why I hadnt looked into how the account 
was sold, or what happened. I said that because if I thought the account had been  mis-sold,  
Id tell Barclays to put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt ever had the account  
which in part, means refunding the fees he paid for it.
The reason  I didnt look into the sale is because  of Mr Ms travel insurance  claim, which  paid 
out over £16,000.  Had I told Barclays to put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt 
had the Premier Life account, hed never have had the travel insurance policy either.  So 
Barclays would be entitled to deduct the value of Mr Ms claim from the account fee refund, 
which would leave nothing to be paid to him.
Ive also though about Mr Ms further comments about his experience when calling Barclays. 
Hes explained again that he wasnt able to speak about his complaint, and he mentioned 
that Barclays made it difficult for him to pass the security verification questions.
I got in touch with Barclays and although  it hasnt been able to provide me with any call 
recordings, it has provided three call notes.  The notes arent very extensive but I do agree, 
the notes suggest there was an issue with Mr M passing the security verification questions. 
Ref: DRN36685302I understand its frustrating to answer security  questions  but Im afraid I dont think  Barclays  
was wrong not to speak to Mr M when he couldnt  answer them. It might be that this 
manifested itself as Barclays  being unhelpful, but Mr M has said that Barclays  also gave him 
other options when  it wasnt  able to talk to him, such as by visiting one of its branches or 
writing in. Mr M doesnt live in the United Kingdom so I understand visiting a branch wouldnt 
have been practical,  but Barclays did at least give Mr M the option of sending a letter,  even if 
it wasnt his preferred choice.
Ive also seen that Mr M has also reiterated that he couldnt raise his complaint  by phone. 
From the calls notes Ive seen it looks as though  Mr M first called  Barclays  two weeks  after 
raising his complaint by email. And I note didnt that when Mr M raised the complaint by 
email he didnt refer to previous attempts to raise  the complaint by phone. So Im afraid that 
Im not persuaded that Barclays was obstructive when Mr M tried to raise  his complaint  
even though it was inevitably inconvenient having  to do so.
Overall, I dont  think Barclays was wrong  not to speak on the phone to Mr M when he wasnt  
able to answer the security questions he was asked.  I havent seen any records of any other 
calls, and whilst I dont  disbelieve  Mr M, Im not persuaded  that Barclays has treated him in a 
way that was unnecessarily protracted  or deliberately unhelpful, so Barclays  doesnt need to 
pay Mr M any compensation for this.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but I havent  seen enough to persuade me that Barclays has 
treated him unfairly which has resulted in him losing out, or being  out-of-pocket.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint or 
make any award against Barclays  Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36685303EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED DECEMBER 2018
background
One of our adjudicators  didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because  hed derived a large  
benefit from the travel  insurance associated with the Premier Life account. Mr M didnt agree.
Because Mr M didnt  agree with the first adjudicator,  another adjudicator looked  at the case. He didnt 
think that Barclays had mis-sold the Premier Life account to Mr M so he also didnt recommend that 
Barclays should pay Mr M any compensation. Mr M didnt  agree so the complaint has been  passed to 
me to make  a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr Ms complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mr Ms complaint a lot of thought, Im not intending  to tell Barclays to put anything  right.  Ill 
explain why.
I should  start by explaining  that Ive seen the numerous letters and phone  calls Mr M has had with our 
adjudicators. And Ive read everything hes said about the way the account  was sold, the benefits  he 
could make use of, and how Barclays handled  his complaint. But the circumstances of the complaint  
make me think that even if I thought  the account  had been mis-sold, or even if I agreed with any of Mr 
Ms complaint points,  I wouldnt tell Barclays to pay him any money.
Mr M held the Premier Life account for just over a year. The account cost £25 per month,  so 
Mr M paid around £300  throughout the time he held it.
One of the Premier Life accounts main  benefits was worldwide travel insurance. Ive seen from 
Barclays records, and a comment  made by Mr M, that he was seriously unwell  when travelling  
abroad in 2011 whilst he held the Premier  Life account. Mr M made  a claim using  the accounts travel 
insurance policy, and Barclays records show the value  of that claim was over £16,000. 
Mr M has said he didnt deliberately make the travel insurance claim, and even though he did use it, 
he couldnt use the accounts  other benefits. But even  so, that doesnt change the value  that he got 
from the account in comparison to the amount he paid for it.
So I think the Premier Life account has been beneficial to Mr M. If I thought  it had been sold 
incorrectly, Id tell Barclays to put Mr M in the position hed be in if he hadnt taken  the account. But in 
all the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think it would  be unfair  for Barclays to deduct  the 
value of any claims  associated with Mr M holding  the account  which  far exceeds what  he paid to 
have it. And Ive also kept in mind the fact that Id tell Barclays to pay interest on top of the account  
fees if I upheld the complaint, but the additional interest still wouldnt  be anywhere near high as the 
value Mr M has derived from the travel insurance policy.
Its clear that in this instance Mr M has had much more  value from holding the Premier Life account 
than he paid for it. So whilst  the circumstances that brought this situation about were unfortunate, Mr 
M hasnt lost out financially  by what Barclays did or didnt  do when it sold the Premier Life account  to 
him. In saying that, Ive taken into account the fact that the claim would  have been paid by the insurer 
 and not by Barclays directly. But, of course, some of the account fee would have been passed on to 
Ref: DRN36685304the insurer  by Barclays to pay for the cover in question. So I dont think the fact that Barclays didnt 
meet the costs of the claim  means that it might still owe Mr M something.  In fact, given the very 
significant difference in what Mr M paid and the benefit he got, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct  any further redress.
Ive seen Mr Ms additional  complaint points about the way that Barclays handled his complaint,  
including the fact that it wouldnt  allow him to discuss the complaint by phone and that he could  only 
contact it by post. Mr M has also said that Barclays didnt  make  him aware  that theres a time limit 
applicable to when complaints can be made.
Ive looked carefully at the correspondence between Mr M and Barclays from the time he raised his 
complaint. I can see that Barclays acknowledged the complaint a couple  of days after Mr M made it, 
and sent him a holding letter around four weeks later. Barclays  provided  its response to the 
complaint around  six weeks after it was first raised. So, as the rules  allow Barclays up to eight weeks 
to respond to complaints, Im satisfied that it did what it needed to do in terms of timescales.
I can also see that every letter Barclays sent Mr M included  a UK and an overseas  phone number in 
case he wanted to get in touch. Im unsure  which  number  Mr M usually calls Barclays on but it doesnt 
look as though Barclays  letters were trying to dissuade  Mr M from calling. Whilst  I accept  that its 
entirely possible that Mr M wasnt able to get through to Barclays by phone, I havent seen enough  to 
make me think Barclays did something significantly wrong  or wouldnt allow him to speak about  his 
complaint by phone.
Barclays final response letter explained the regulators  time limits to make a complaint,  and gave 
referral rights for Mr M to bring his complaint to this service. So whilst Barclays might not have made  
Mr M aware  of these things before  this point in time, I dont  think it needed  to. As Mr M hadnt had an 
outcome to his complaint  before receiving the response letter, there was no reason for Barclays to 
have already given him this information.
 
I want  to reassure Mr M that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And Ive 
thought about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think  Barclays has treated Mr M 
unfairly, and on the basis of the value of Mr Ms travel insurance  claim in comparison to what he paid 
to hold the Premier Life account, I dont think Barclays owes him any money.
Ref: DRN3668530