K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is about the service  provided by British Gas Insurance  Limited in relation 
to a boiler and central heating insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs W has held the boiler  insurance  policy with British  Gas for some time.  The cover  
includes an annual service of the boiler. 
In April 2018, Mrs W reported  a leak from her boiler. When the engineer arrived and 
removed the cover, he said he was shocked  by the state of the boiler, which was corroded 
extensively. The engineer said the heat exchanger needed to be replaced but the part it 
connected to was no longer made  and so the boiler  would need  to be replaced and could not 
be repaired. The cost of the replacement  boiler would not be covered under the policy. 
Mrs W is very unhappy about this. She says that she was not told when the service  was 
carried out in 2017 how advanced the rust and corrosion was in her boiler. The rust that was 
evident in 2018, would  not have developed in one year.  If she had been told previously, 
about the condition of her boiler, she could  have started to plan and save  for a new boiler.  
Mrs W has therefore asked for a refund of the years premium for the policy. 
British Gas says it warned  Mrs W of some  rust on the boiler  casing during the service in 
2017 and that the boiler was on a reduced parts list, meaning  that spare parts for it were 
getting harder  to obtain. British Gas did, however, offer her £50 compensation as a gesture 
of goodwill,  due to an error in the final response letter. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he did not think that British  Gas had acted incorrectly.  British Gas had told Mrs W 
that there  was some  rust evident in 2017 and that parts  would be harder to obtain and so 
she had some advance  warning that a new boiler  might be necessary in the foreseeable 
future.
Mrs W doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment.  She has made a number of points in 
response, summarised below: 
she was told there  was a small amount of rust on the cover the engineer  takes off to 
service the boiler in 2017. The engineer also said it was fine and not a problem. She 
therefore had no reason to think that the rest of the cover and pipe would be so badly 
damaged by rust a year later. The boiler  passed its service.
British Gas tell all its customers that parts are hard to find once the boiler  reaches 10 
years old, even  if the boiler is in pristine  condition  because manufacturers  stop 
making parts after this time.  There was nothing wrong with her boiler at that point.
After speaking to different  people in the British Gas complaints  department,  she was 
told the final response letter was incorrect and had lies in its context; and that
unfortunately the engineers dont  always have the correct amount of time to do the 
services as they should, due to demand or workers being off work. Therefore 
mistakes do happen  and she is sure mistakes  happened when her boiler was
serviced in April 2017.
British Gas says water  leaks can damage  steel parts quickly.  If this is the case then 
there would  have been some  evidence of a water leak before April 2018.
Ref: DRN35646402As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the photographs provided of the boiler and these do show extensive rust and 
corrosion. Mrs W has provided an email  from the manufacturer of the boiler, which  says it 
does not think  the corrosion  evident in April 2018 could have built up in just one year. 
However, it seems to be accepted by both parties  that there was rust present  in April 2017. 
Mrs W accepts  it was mentioned to her  and that it was nothing  to worry about  even  
though it was not recorded on the checklist left with her by the engineer. The dispute is 
about how much and whether British Gas should have told Mrs W more clearly that the rust 
might cause the boiler to fail and potentially  be irreparable.
Theres no evidence about  how much rust there  was in April 2017,  other  than that it clearly 
did not cause  the boiler  to fail its service.  The leak that led to the call out in April 2018,  will 
undoubtedly have  caused some further  rust but I consider it likely  that there was more  than a 
little rust in 2017.  However, even if I accept  that this should have been pointed  out to Mrs W 
more clearly in 2017, I do not consider that British Gas should be required to refund the 
years premium. 
There is no evidence that the leak that developed  in April 2018 and therefore the resultant 
need to replace the boiler  could have been  prevented. Mrs W would have had to replace  
her boiler anyway. Her position would be no different  in that regard. 
Mrs W says that she would  have  had the opportunity to start saving for a new boiler, if she 
had been told earlier about the rust. However, the boiler passed its service in 2017,  it was 
working and did not need  to be replaced then. There was also apparently  no evidence of any 
leak. The rust present  then may have been  extensive (we do not know)  but it was not 
affecting the boilers operation or safety. So even  if British Gas had pointed  out the extent of 
the rust then, it could  not have predicted  when the boiler would need replacing. And Mrs W 
was already aware that her boiler was around  14 years old and there was some rust.  
Overall therefore, I do not consider that British has acted unreasonably  in not pointing this 
out more clearly in 2017. British Gas provided the cover in exchange of the premium  Mrs W 
paid. It carried out the annual  service  in April 2017  and 2018.  I do not therefore agree that it 
would be reasonable to require it to refund the premium to Mrs W. 
There was an inaccuracy in British  Gass response to Mrs Ws complaint.  While I can 
understand it was frustrating for Mrs W, it hasnt made a difference to the outcome and didnt 
cause any delay or other inconvenience. I consider the £50 compensation already offered for 
this to be reasonable. 
Ref: DRN35646403my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  as I consider that British Gas Insurance Limited has already 
made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint. If the payment of £50 
has not already  been made  and Mrs W now wishes to accept that, she should confirm  her 
acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3564640