K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains on behalf  of herself  and the estate of her late husband, Mr O, about  the 
service she received from National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) in relation to Mr Os 
bank accounts.
Mrs O is represented in this complaint by her cousin. But for ease  of reading Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
background
Mrs O says Nat West gave her inaccurate information about the number of accounts  her late 
husband held with it and whether they were  dormant or closed. And she says shes  incurred 
expenses including  the cost of making journeys from overseas to the UK to give Nat West 
information it asked  her to provide about her late husbands estate.
Our investigator thought Mrs Os complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said Nat West had 
acknowledged its mistakes and had offered Mrs O a gift as a gesture of goodwill. He said the 
cost of obtaining letters of administration to deal with Mr Os estate would have needed to be 
incurred in any event.  And he said he hadnt seen any information indicating Nat West asked 
Mrs O to attend in person  at its branch in the UK to deal with Mr Os estate.  
Mrs O disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said Nat West hadnt indicated the 
nature of the human  error by its branch staff that led to her being given wrong information 
about Mr Os accounts.  She said she hadnt asked for compensation from Nat West and she 
wasnt interested in the gift it had offered her. And she said she wanted to get to the truth of 
what had happened.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why.
I must firstly say that I have the greatest sympathy  for Mrs Os loss.
It appears that the essence of Mrs Os complaint relates to the difficulties she has 
experienced in getting the funds  Mr O held in accounts at Nat West released to her.
I see Nat West  required  sight of letters of administration in favour of Mrs O before it would 
deal with her in relation to Mr Os accounts.  These documents  give legal authority to deal 
with a deceased persons assets,  so Im satisfied this was a reasonable requirement, in the 
circumstances. I appreciate the amount  of money  in Mr Os accounts  was small, but I 
understand letters of administration were  also needed to enable  Mrs O to deal with other 
assets of Mr Os estate. So, it appears  this cost would have been incurred in any event. 
I also see Mrs Os explained she also incurred travel  expenses in visiting the Nat West 
branch in the UK to provide the information it required. But it appears this information  could 
have been provided by other means, such as by post or online.  So, in the absence  of 
Ref: DRN37906812information confirming  Nat West asked Mrs O to attend the branch in person, I cant uphold  
this aspect of her complaint.
Its clear Mrs O was given  inaccurate  information  by Nat West about  how many  accounts Mr 
O had and about the status of those  accounts. I can understand  this will have  caused  her 
distress and inconvenience. But Nat West acknowledged its mistakes in response  to Mrs Os 
complaint. And it offered  her a gift as a gesture of goodwill. I think this was reasonable.
I note Mrs O has said she would like to know how the admitted human errors  by Nat West 
staff came  to be made. But it isnt the role of this service to require businesses to provide 
that sort of information. Our role is to ensure errors are acknowledged and that appropriate 
redress is given. And, as Im satisfied  thats happened in this case, I cant  reasonably require 
Nat West to do anything  further.   
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mrs O and the estate of the late Mr Os complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3790681