K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of his late mothers (Mrs Ps) estate. 
Hes unhappy about the maturity value  of her bond, managed by Prudential  Assurance 
Company Limited,  and feels it has been calculated incorrectly.  
background
In February 2019,  Mrs P sadly passed away.  In March 2019, Prudential  was notified of her 
death and a request was made to surrender her investment. 
Mr Ps unhappy because Prudential used the date of notification, as opposed to the date of 
death, to calculate the surrender value of her bond  by which  time the value had dropped. But 
because Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) used the date of death to calculate 
tax, Mrs Ps estate has lost out twice by several hundred pounds.   
Prudential hasnt upheld  the complaint. In summary, it said it acted  in line with its terms and 
conditions and therefore isnt responsible for any losses  incurred by Mrs Ps estate. It simply 
provided HMRC with details of the value of the bond  as of the date of death  as it was obliged  
to. And it worked out the surrender value  using the date of notification in line with its terms 
and conditions. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Prudential has dealt  with the complaint fairly.
Its terms and conditions  under the heading Tax liability  on final cashing  in states:
oIn the case of a payout triggered  by death,  the calculation will be surrender 
value Immediately before death plus all previous withdrawals less the total 
amount you have paid in plus any excesses  over the accumulated  5% 
allowances."
Although the sale took place in 1992, any tax implication shouldve been  considered  
before the encashment of the bond. 
It isnt Prudentials responsibility to advise on when  following the death of Mrs P  it 
might be the best time to surrender the bond. 
He appreciates Mr Ps concerns about the different processes followed by Prudential  
and HMRC, but they are two different entities subject to their own rules. 
The industry regulator the Financial  Conduct  Authority (the FCA) is there  for dealing 
with regulatory  concerns, rather  than our service. 
Although Mr P feels like hes lost out in the sum of £491,  in this instance  theres  
nothing to say that Prudential  was going to use the date of death for calculating  the 
surrender value of the bond.  
The loss is down  to the stock market  and not anything that Prudential  has done.  
The terminal bonus applied  is also at the discretion  of Prudential.  
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view,  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
summary, he made the following  key points:
Prudential may have acted in line with its terms and conditions from when the 
investment was taken  out in 1992,  but 28 years on it doesnt mean theyre  
reasonable now.
Ref: DRN31152082He acknowledges  the market caused  the pay-out to be reduced, but thinks  its 
irrelevant, given  that the date of death wasnt used to calculate the maturity value. 
And its something that Prudential  applied to this particular bond and not others  
HMRC only value  the estate upon the date of death of the investor, and Prudential 
has to issue a chargeable gains certificate  (CGC) for taxation purposes. He doubts 
Prudential will issue another CGC showing the maturity using the date of notification.
Prudentials use of the date of maturity  is at odds with HMRC. Its unfair that he has 
to pay tax based on the value  of the bond on the date of death   but will actually 
receive a lower pay out based on the date of notification.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr P says, Im unable to say that 
Prudential has done anything wrong  by calculating the surrender value of Mrs Ps bond 
using the date of notification, rather than the date of her actual death. 
But before I explain  why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling  Mr P has about  this matter. And Im very sorry for his loss. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading   its not what  Im required to do  in order  to reach  a decision in this case.  I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent  
points. 
My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by him and Prudential and reach what  I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case, rather than 
take any sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened.
Im aware Mr P has questions about  the technical  calculations, but Im not required to 
answer these, and my inability to answer  particular  questions  doesnt prevent me from 
reaching a decision  in this case either. 
I should make clear from the outset that Prudential is a financial institution that helps people 
to invest their money, and is a wholly different  institution to HMRC, which is a non-ministerial 
government agency  primarily  there  to collect taxes. The two institutions are therefore  
separate entities,  with separate purposes  and governed by separate  rules and regulations.   
Ref: DRN31152083I appreciate Mr P feels that Mrs Ps estate has suffered financially but its through no fault of 
Prudential, and the investment couldve just as easily  made money but for the poor market  
conditions at the point it was notified of Mrs Ps death. 
In this instance Im satisfied that Prudential has acted in accordance  with its terms and 
conditions when calculating the maturity value.  Although Mr P feels  the terms and conditions  
might not be fair, Im obliged to apply  them  as they were, at the time the bond  was taken out, 
rather what they might be now for different investments.  Its a fundamental way of ensuring  
fairness and consistency.  
I note that Prudential issued a CGC, as it was obliged to  using the date of death  for 
HMRC which  is separate to it using the date of notification for the purposes  of calculating the 
bond maturity  value. In other words, how much tax Mrs Ps estate might have to pay is a 
matter for HMRC (not Prudential), which has simply provided the information based  on the 
bonuses applied at the time of death.  
Whilst I understand Mr P is unhappy  that the maturity value is lower  than what  he expected,  
its also important to understand  that the figure  wasnt guaranteed.  And as Ive mentioned, 
any loss  to the fund is likely to have been  as a result of the markets  rather than Prudential  
using the date of notification  as the date of calculating the maturity value. I appreciate Mr P 
thinks this is irrelevant, but I dont agree because its a different matter  to the tax liability. 
I understand that the surrender value has always been subject to change, and that upon 
surrender Prudential has provided  a value which it felt fairly  represented  Mrs Ps share of the 
fund for the time the plan has been  in place.  
I dont think prior to encashment there was any reliable way of knowing what  that final figure 
might be, because its subject to change and dependent very much on the final bonus, also 
known as the terminal bonus. So I dont  think Prudential couldve given Mr P any kind of 
guarantees as to the exact final value, and quite rightly so given that terminal  bonuses  are 
only attached  on the date the funds are taken from the plan.
I appreciate the points  made by Mr P about  why he disagrees with Prudentials calculations,  
but Im conscious that if the smoothing  process leaves a surplus in the fund, the policy  can 
receive a terminal bonus  (although its not guaranteed)  as a distribution  of that surplus  
and thats what  has happened here. 
This way, despite what Mr P says, I think its likely that the bond received the value of the 
gains accrued by the fund whilst the plan was in in force.  However, I note both the annual 
and terminal bonuses are at Prudentials commercial discretion, and its not something this 
service can interfere with. In other words, Prudential is entitled to decide  based upon  
recommendations from its actuaries  how much annual and terminal  bonus it applies.  
It has always been the case that the end value will depend on market forces,  so the value 
given to HMRC for tax purposes isnt a guarantee of what  Prudential  is likely to pay out on 
surrender. I appreciate Mr Ps point that hes effectively paying  tax on something hell never 
receive and that its unfair. It might be something that he wishes to take up with HMRC, or 
even the FCA as its not Prudential determining how much tax Mrs Ps estate  has to pay.  
I appreciate the points  made by Mr P and his frustration about what we can and cant 
consider, but any question of how the funds  are managed and operated is a question for the 
industry regulator, the FCA,  which  unlike our service  supervises the management of 
Ref: DRN31152084funds and any question  over whether Prudential has properly managed the with-profits fund 
is an issue for it to consider in its regulatory  capacity.
Our service doesnt have  a regulatory  role. And so when  we receive a complaint involving 
concerns about  whether a fund has been  managed appropriately, it means were not 
generally in a position to carry out an investigation.
We can make the FCA aware  of potential issues that are brought  to us, but we dont 
represent individual customers before  the FCA. If it was the case  that the FCA had concerns 
about the fund and its management, it has the powers  to investigate and take any action it 
considers appropriate. 
In the event the FCA did identify issues and take action, its unlikely it would contact 
individual(s) directly. Instead,  it would be more likely to instruct the business  to take action  
and contact policyholders itself.
If Mr P wishes, he could  also contact the FCA himself with details  of his concerns. But as
Ive said above,  its unlikely hell receive  a response setting out any action it may decide to
take.
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the investigator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  Prudential to do anything. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3115208