K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) allowed payments to be 
taken from his account even though he had cancelled his debit card.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 6 February 2019,  a copy of which  is attached as it forms 
part of this final decision. NatWest accepted my provisional findings. But Mr J didnt  because  
he wasnt happy with the level of compensation I had recommended.  He didnt think £200 
was enough to recognise the impact this situation  had on him. He spoke to our adjudicator 
about it and explained why he thought the amount  of compensation should be higher.
So the case has been passed back to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive listened  to the call between Mr J and our adjudicator about the provisional 
decision. I also listened to an earlier call in which Mr J talked about the way this situation had 
affected him. He specifically mentions  his phone getting cut off, not being  able to pay his 
credit card, borrowing money  from friends  and family, having  to use a savings account and 
not being able to pay his NatWest loan. He also mentions  the stress of the situation  and the 
time it has taken to sort out.
I gave Mr J the opportunity to send in any evidence he wanted me to consider about the 
impact of this situation on him. I havent  received any information from him, so Im basing  my 
decision on everything we already  have on our file as well as what  Mr J has told our 
adjudicator during their phone calls. Ive also considered the whole situation again.
Its very difficult  to put a monetary value on the stress and inconvenience  which  a situation  
like this causes. Different  customers will also experience different levels  of stress  and upset  
when faced with the same situation.  When we as a service decide  to award compensation, 
we look at the situation overall and decide what we think  would  be a fair amount in the 
individual circumstances  of each complaint. Our awards arent  intended to punish  a business 
for what has happened. Instead we try and recommend an amount which  fairly recognises  
the impact caused  to a customer by what a business may have done. 
I havent seen  anything which confirms any specific financial loss which  Mr J has suffered 
here (other than the unauthorised payments, which Im asking NatWest  to refund). But I do 
acknowledge that the situation  has caused  Mr J stress and inconvenience. And it has taken 
time to sort out. However, I havent  seen anything  which changes  my mind  about the 
appropriate level of compensation  here,  or which I didnt take into account when writing  my 
provisional decision. So I still think £200 is the right amount of compensation here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), my final 
decision is that I uphold  this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must:
Ref: DRN30243392refund  to Mr J the sum of £773.92 together with interest on that sum at the rate of 8% 
per year from 16 August  2018  to the date of payment;
immediately cancel  any ongoing continuous payment authority to the third party Ive 
called E in my provisional decision; and
pay £200 to Mr J for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30243393Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr J complains that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed  payments to be taken  from 
his account even though  he had cancelled his debit card.
background
Mr J phoned NatWest on 8 August 2018 and asked them to cancel his debit  card. He asked whether  
there were any pending  transactions  on the card and was told there werent. A payment had recently 
gone out of his account  to a third party business, which Ill call E. Mr J said he was concerned that E 
would try to take further payments as they had his card details. He didnt want  them  to take any more  
payments and that was the reason he wanted to cancel  the card.
He asked whether the bank would allow  any more  payments  to go out if the card was cancelled.  The 
call handler  said it wouldnt. So the card was cancelled over the phone.
On 16 August 2018, E took five payments  totalling £773.92 from Mr J's account using the card details 
which they held. Mr J says these payments  were made without his authorisation. He says he has 
incurred bank  charges as a result, because the payments have taken  him over his overdraft  limit into 
an unplanned overdraft. He says this is also causing him problems with loan payments and other 
financial commitments.
Mr J says that NatWest  refused  to tell him when E requested the payments and have withheld 
information from him about this.
Our adjudicator thought that NatWest gave Mr J incorrect information when he cancelled the card.  But 
he thought that even if they had given  the right information, it was likely that E would have taken the 
payments anyway. He thought  NatWest should pay compensation of £100 to Mr J but didnt think they 
needed to refund the overdraft charges, as NatWest had shown that Mr Js account would have 
become overdrawn at that time anyway, even without the payments  to E.
NatWest agreed to the compensation  of £100.  But Mr J didnt accept our adjudicators  view. He says 
that, although he has disputed the transactions with E, he hasnt received  any refunds from them.  He 
thinks it is NatWests mistake which has put him in this situation but says that the onus has been put 
on him to sort it out. He thinks that compensation  of £1,000  would be more appropriate. The case  has 
therefore been referred  to an ombudsman  for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J called NatWest  on 8 August 2018, he asked whether E would  be able to take payments 
from his account if the card was cancelled. He was told they wouldnt.  NatWest accept that 
information was wrong, so I wont go over the background to it. Instead Ill focus on what  the impact 
was of Mr J being given that wrong information. I need to consider whether Mr J would be in a 
different position now if NatWest had told him that E might still be able to take payments if he 
cancelled the card. I think he would and Ill explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 are relevant here. They say that a payment is only 
authorised if the payer has consented to it being made. That consent  may be given through  the 
payee. So in Mr Js case, the payments in question  were  only authorised  if Mr J consented to them  
being made and he could have given  that consent to E (rather than direct  to NatWest).
Ref: DRN30243394I dont have the details of Mr Js contract with E but I find it likely that, when he used their services, he 
had given them a continuous  payment  authority.  I say this because  of the differing  amounts of the 
payments here, along  with how they are categorised on Mr Js statements. With this type of payment, 
the customer  gives their card details to the retailer  with permission to take payments  as and when  the 
retailer needs.  So if Mr J had one of these  arrangements  with E, he had given  them his consent to 
take payments  using  his card details. Under the Regulations, Mr J could  withdraw that consent before 
E requested  a payment  and could do so by contacting either  NatWest or E.
Mr J called NatWest  on 8 August 2018. The information Ive seen confirms that there were no pending  
transactions at that time.  So the information  given by the call handler on that point was correct. 
NatWest have since confirmed that the payments in question were  applied for by E on 13 August 
2018. So when Mr J called on 8 August 2018, the payments hadnt been requested meaning that he 
was entitled to withdraw his consent.
Mr J told the call handler that he didnt want any more  payments  to go out to E. That was the reason 
he wanted to cancel his card. I have listened to the call and the NatWest call handler told Mr J that 
there were other options available  if he wanted to stop certain payments, rather than cancelling the 
card. Mr J didnt want to pursue those and said that for peace of mind he just wanted  to cancel  the 
card because he didnt trust E not to take payments otherwise. The call handler then acted  on Mr Js 
instructions and cancelled the card.
Unfortunately, where there  is a continuous payment authority set up (as I believe was the case  here) 
cancelling the card doesnt stop it. The continuous payment authority is linked to the account, not the 
card. I wouldnt expect  Mr J to have  known  this but I would expect NatWest to have known and to 
have told him this.
I have listened to the call and I think there was enough information in what Mr J said for the call 
handler to have known that cancelling  the card wouldnt  have the desired effect. It was clear that he 
wanted to stop payments to a particular retailer; he specifically named  E and said he didnt want  them  
to take any more payments  from him. It was clear that Mr J thought E would try to take payments 
again at some  time in the future. He also said that they had his card details. So whilst Mr J didnt 
specifically refer to a continuous payment authority, or withdrawal of consent, it was clear  what  he 
wanted to do - stop any further payments to E.
In that situation, NatWest should have stopped the payments. But the payments went  out anyway. E 
requested the payments on 13 August 2018, which was after Mr J had withdrawn his consent  so I 
think its fair to say that the payments were unauthorised here.  Under the relevant  regulations, 
NatWest should refund unauthorised payments.
I have thought  about  the fact that NatWest were carrying out Mr Js instructions by cancelling  the 
card. The call handler did suggest  that there were other things the bank could do to stop a payment  
going out but Mr J didnt want to discuss those and told them to cancel the card. So NatWest were 
doing what Mr J asked. But what they had told Mr J was wrong (that no payments would be able to go 
out to E if the card was cancelled). If Mr J had been given  the correct  information (that cancelling the 
card wouldnt necessary stop the payments), I think he would have taken a different approach. The 
whole purpose of his request  to cancel  the card was to stop payments to E. So if he had known that 
wouldnt work, I think its very likely  he would have listened to the other options  and that could have 
led to a different  outcome.
In any event, Im satisfied  that in the call on 8 August  2018 Mr J withdrew his consent  to the payments 
to E. So NatWest should have  stopped  those payments going through. That is the case  even if E still 
tried to take those payments under an agreement with Mr J. I dont have the details of Mr Js 
arrangement with E and it may be the case that he does owe them the money. But thats not what  Im 
looking at here. Im just looking at what NatWest did, and they allowed  unauthorised payments to 
leave the account. So I think its fair that they should now refund those payments.
Ref: DRN30243395Part of Mr Js complaint is that NatWest  havent been  forthcoming with information about  the 
payments. He called them on 16 August  2018,  the day that the payments debited  his account.  I have 
listened to that call and Mr J was told that the payments were to E. The lady he spoke to said she 
didnt have the details  but could put him through to the fraud team to discuss it further and Mr J 
agreed. So I cant  conclude that NatWest withheld information about the payments. And once Mr J 
had been told that they were payments to E, I think he would have  known what  they were because 
presumably they were the payments he had been trying to stop.
As to the charges Mr J says he has incurred  as a result of these payments coming out of his account, 
I agree with our adjudicator. The information provided by NatWest shows that the account would have 
gone over the overdraft limit even without the payments to E. In any event I understand that NatWest 
have refunded the bank charges which  have arisen during  this investigation,  which I think  is fair.
Mr J says that he has had problems with loan payments and other regular financial commitments as a 
result of these  payments leaving his account.  I havent seen anything to show that he is out of pocket 
(other than by the amounts paid to E) or that he has incurred any liability as a result of this situation. 
So I dont think I can fairly say that NatWest needs to do anything in this respect. I also understand 
that Mr J is no longer using this account to receive and make payments.
However, this has undoubtedly been a considerable inconvenience to Mr J and has caused him some 
distress. His bank gave him the wrong information  and allowed  unauthorised payments to leave his 
account. They  then failed to refund those payments and Mr J has had to bring his complaint to this 
service to get it resolved.  So I think NatWest should make  a payment of £200 to Mr J to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience which  this this situation  has caused.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, my 
provisional decision  is that National  Westminster Bank Plc must:
refund to Mr J the sum of £773.92 together with interest  on that sum at the rate of
8% per year from 16 August  2018  to the date of payment;
immediately cancel any ongoing continuous payment  authority to E; and
pay £200  to Mr J for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused him.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3024339