K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains the fixed term unsecured loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as 
Likely Loans) gave  him were unaffordable and shouldnt have been made to him.
background
In October  2017 Mr W applied for a fixed sum loan with Likely Loans and his application  was 
accepted. The loan was for £2,000  and would be paid back  by monthly repayments of 
£131.05 over 24 months. Mr W kept up the loan repayments that were  due. 
After a few months  Mr W says Oakbrook offered him further  lending,  so in May 2018 he 
agreed a new fixed  sum loan with Likely Loans. His new loan was for a total of £3,201.49, 
made up of £1,500 new lending plus the £1,701.49 outstanding from his original loan, which  
was repaid by the start of this new loan. This new loan was to be paid back  over 30 months 
by monthly repayments  of £184.90.
In July 2018, Mr W complained to Likely Loans as he thought these  two loans had been 
mis-sold to him and were unaffordable,  as he had other outstanding loans at the time he 
took them out. Likely Loans didnt  uphold Nr Ws complaint. It said that when he applied  for 
the loans, it carried  out its standard credit  assessment which  was proportionate to the size 
and unsecured nature of the loans. It said Mr W had kept up with the loan repayments  and 
there was no evidence to suggest the information  Likely Loans had been  given  in the 
application was incorrect or that it hadnt followed its own processes.
Mr W remained unhappy so he asked our service to investigate. After  looking into things, our 
investigator said the checks carried out by Likely Loans were  proportionate to Mr Ws 
borrowing. He said Mr W had kept up the repayments and his bank  statements  didnt  
suggest the loans were  unaffordable.
Mr W asked for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman,  as he said he would like 
his debt to be reduced.  And he explained  his monthly rent payments of £650 wouldnt have 
shown on his bank  statements  as he paid them in cash. So his complaint has come to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There isnt a specific list of checks lenders must  carry out before agreeing  a loan. Instead, 
they should carry out checks  that are proportionate  to the particular  circumstances of the 
loan. In this case,  Likely  Loans says it carried out its standard  credit  assessment before 
approving the loans  it gave Mr W in October  2017  and May 2018, and that this assessment 
included looking at the applications  Mr W had submitted and his credit record  at those times. 
In the application for the original loan in October  2017, Mr W said he lived with his parents,  
wanted the loan for car purchase or repairs, and had an annual  income of £33,000  I think  
this would have  likely  given him a monthly  take-home income  of about £2,100. Mr Ws credit 
report showed hed paid off several  loans in the past with no late or missed payments, and 
was currently paying off three loans with total monthly repayments of £862. After adding  the 
Ref: DRN32350512new loan repayment  of £131.05, that means Mr W would likely  have  been  left with about  
£1,100 to spend on other things. 
Mr Ws credit report shows he paid all his monthly  loan repayments for the next seven 
months. In May 2018, he applied to Likely Loans  for another loan and his annual  income  
was recorded  as £27,000. Likely Loans  says it again carried out its standard credit 
assessment in which it considered Mr Ws loan application  and his credit record. His credit 
record showed this new loan would increase his total monthly  loan repayments  to about 
£1,046. Likely Loans agreed  Mr Ws application  and loaned him a further  £1,500 on top of 
what remained of his previous loan, so that Mr W now owed Likely Loans £3,201.49. So this 
loan meant  Mr W would likely have been left with about £750 each month for other things. 
Likely Loans was entitled to rely on what Mr W told it in his applications  and, in any case, his 
bank statements support the income  hed stated.  I know  Mr W has explained to our service 
that he also paid rent of £650 in cash. But I dont think Likely  Loans  acted unreasonably by 
only considering  Mr Ws applications and credit record, and not asking  him further  questions  
about his expenditure. I say that because the amount Mr W wanted to borrow  for each loan 
was relatively small compared  to the income hed stated. And because of the nature of the 
loan itself, which was unsecured and not long-term. So I think the checks  Likely Loans 
carried out for both loans  were proportionate  under  the circumstances.   
After carrying out those checks, Im satisfied Likely Loans made  a fair lending decision for 
each loan. I say this for several reasons. Firstly, the income Mr W told Likely Loans about on 
each application  meant he would likely have been left with a significant amount  of money 
each month  after his loan repayments  - £1,100 after the first loan and £750 after the second. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Likely Loans to conclude each time that this was enough  
to cover Mr Ws other expenses. Secondly  while Mr Ws credit  record shows he had other 
loans at those  times,  it also shows he was keeping up with his repayments. And thirdly, Ive 
seen nothing in the checks Likely Loans  carried out  which, as Ive said,  were 
proportionate - that should have made Likely Loans  think these loans would cause  Mr W 
undue difficulty or be unsustainable for him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3235051