K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited settled another drivers claim 
on his motor policy without reference to him. He doesnt the other drivers claim was 
legitimate.
background
Mr A was insured with Calpe and an incident occurred on 26 June 2017. Mr A said there  was 
no collision, he merely touched the other drivers  car. He took some pictures of the other  
drivers car but not his details as the other  driver was in a rush to get to work. Mr A also gave 
these pictures and an account of what happened  to his broker.
Mr A said the next thing  he knew was that he received  a letter  from the agents on Calpes 
behalf saying  it had settled the other  drivers claim and it expected Mr A to reimburse it. Mr A 
complained as he said Calpe hadnt made  any contact with him before dealing with the other 
drivers claim.
Calpe has now confirmed  it is merely seeking  the £3,000 all risks excess  from Mr A.
Mr A in any event brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Calpe 
had done nothing wrong in asking Mr A to pay his excess. Mr A disagreed so his complaint  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Theres no dispute this incident occurred, but Mr A strongly disputes the other drivers claim 
was legitimate, given  there was no damage to his car. Unfortunately, he gave all the 
photographic and other evidence to his broker instead of Calpe, as his policy  required. And 
Calpe didnt have  the correct email  contact details for Mr A. Im not aware of the reason why 
Mr As broker didnt  pass everything on to Calpe  or why Calpe didnt have the correct email 
contact details. But if Mr A wishes, he could complain to his broker  about this.
However this meant Calpe didnt have Mr As account of the incident or indeed  his 
photographic evidence. As Mr A didnt receive its correspondence and apparently his broker 
wasnt forwarding anything on.
However I can only consider in this decision whether Calpe did anything  wrong,  not any 
other entity.  And I dont think it has done  anything  wrong, as the other driver made a claim 
supported by medical and other  evidence.  Under  the policy, Calpe entitled to deal with any 
claim as it thinks  fit. This is a normal clause in almost  all motor policies, and is aimed at 
ensuring costs dont escalate unreasonably. Its listed  under the heading Conditions  at 
section 1 (f) (iii) and says the following:
The Underwriters can conduct the defence, admit negligence for any accident or 
claim on Your behalf. The Underwriters  will also exchange information with other 
parties involved with the incident or claim and to settle any claim or part of the claim 
without reference  to the Insured Person..
Ref: DRN31511012Therefore, I consider  Calpe did the right thing in settling this claim on the best terms 
available.
Under the heading Your obligation to pay/repay the Excess it says the following:
The Excess  applies to damage or injury claimed by a third party.  You are liable for 
any claim (by You or any third party) made on Your Policy up to an amount of the 
value of the Excess on the Policy.  For example, if You are involved in an incident 
where a third party makes  a claim against You and there is no damage to Your  Car 
You will be liable to pay the Underwriters  the amount up the value of Your Excess.
Mr As excess is £3,000, which is now what Calpe is asking him to pay as the other drivers 
claim exceeded this. Theres nothing to show me that its isnt right for Calpe to now request  
that Mr A pays this as its a term of the policy  Mr A chose to take out.
Given the lack of communication between Calpe  and Mr A, Calpe asked Mr A once his 
complaint came to us to provide it with further  details  of his licence and other personal 
information. Mr A has done that. Calpe said its still waiting for the Accident Report Form,  
however since its settled the other  drivers claim,  I cant see now how this relevant.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3151101