K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about finance provided by PayBreak Limited (PayBreak)  to fund a training 
course.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020. I explained that I wasnt 
expecting to uphold  Mr Ts complaint but said I would consider further submissions from him 
and the business. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, I dont currently agree with the conclusions  reached by the investigator and 
Im not expecting to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
did Mr T know he was entering into a finance  agreement?
Im persuaded that Mr T did most likely  know he was entering into a finance  agreement with 
PayBreak. I say that because he signed  the agreement and the agreement  stated,  This is a 
consumer credit agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.Only  sign if you 
agree to be legally  bound by its terms.  
Mr T attended a few classes before he complained that he hadnt agreed to a finance 
agreement. I dont think its likely he would have believed the early lessons to be free of 
charge and Im persuaded that its most likely  he was aware  he had entered into a finance 
agreement with PayBreak.
were PayBreak responsible in their lending?
PayBreak had a responsibility to carry out checks that complied with the rules and guidelines 
in force  at the time. At the point Mr T signed  his credit agreement  the rules and guidelines 
were the chapter on responsible lending  in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (chapter 5). These  regulations say that a lender must consider the 
customers ability to make repayments as they fall due, but they also say that affordability  
checks should be proportionate. What is considered proportionate depends  on factors  such 
as the size of the loan, the amount  of the repayments, and what PayBreak knew  about Mr T 
and about his circumstances. A lender must  not accept an application for a loan where it 
Ref: DRN39163982knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer  has not been truthful in his 
application (paragraph 5.3.7).
I think it was clear that what Mr T had told the broker, who were acting as PayBreaks agents 
in these negotiations, wasnt true. He said he was living as a tenant but had zero debt 
repayments. No expenditure  was therefore listed  on the application. I think it should  have  
been clear that as a tenant,  with one dependant, he would  have  had some  expenditure.
I think further enquiries were necessary to clarify  what Mr T had reported.  I dont  think  
reasonable and proportionate checks about Mr Ts expenditure were  made  to clarify if he 
could afford  the loan he was signing up for.
But if reasonable and proportionate  checks were made, I think its likely PayBreak would 
have approved the loan anyway. Ive reviewed  Mr Ts bank statements covering the period  
around the loan application (May, June, July and August 2018) and I see his income  was 
broadly in line with the £1,600 he told PayBreak he was earning. But his bank account was 
usually in credit and his outgoings were no more than £1,000.  So, I think its clear  he did 
have enough income, after expenses were  taken into account, for him to sustainably afford 
the £100 repayments on the loan hed applied  for over the 36-month period.
I therefore dont  think the loan was unaffordable for Mr T or that it was mis-sold to him and 
Im not expecting to ask PayBreak to take any further action.
PayBreak didnt have  any additional information  they wished me to consider but Mr T did. He 
provided a detailed analysis of his income  and outgoings and provided bank and credit card 
statements for me to review. He explained  that his family had helped  with expenditure but 
that he regularly  faced a shortfall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information Mr T provided which covered the months before his 
application. But Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence he could not sustainably 
afforded the £100 per month loan. 
I can see that he was only using about  a 35% of his available  credit on his credit cards and 
that his bank account balance was being  managed well. He was only occasionally using his 
overdraft in the months preceding his loan application.
Ive looked at Mr Ts fixed outgoings  during  that period and I think  its reasonable to say they 
were just short of £1,300.  But his average  income for the first four months of 2018  was about 
£2,300 and, although I note some of it would have been subject to tax, I still think  there was 
most likely to be sufficient left over for him to manage his outgoings and have enough  left to 
afford reasonable living expenses once the monthly loan cost was taken  into consideration.
So, for those reasons  I dont think there  is sufficient  evidence that this loan was unaffordable  
or was mis-sold  to Mr T and Im not asking PayBreak to take any further  action.
Ref: DRN39163983my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3916398