K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc (Barclays) disclosed to one of their members of 
staff, that Mrs J had made a complaint about them as she suspected they might have been 
involved with a number  of attempted fraudulent transactions  on her account.
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mrs J and Barclays so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
In April 2018 and for a while after,  there were a number  of attempted  fraudulent attempts on 
Mrs Js bank account. Fortunately she reported these to Barclays  in time and suffered no 
financial loss. Mrs J suspected the culprit  might have been her neighbour who worked for 
Barclays, so she told Barclays that. Barclays then told the member of staff concerned  who 
took it upon herself to try to contact Mrs J by telephone. She was not successful so she then 
approached Mrs J at her place of work  and confronted  her. This made Mrs J feel so 
threatened that she says she moved home to a different area; cancelled her online banking 
access; reduced her overdraft facility, and started going into branch to conduct  transactions 
to prevent any further fraud.
Barclays undertook an investigation  and accepted the complaint, but didnt disclose their 
findings to Mrs J as they deemed it an internal matter.  Mrs J was unhappy  with Barclays  
response and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint  and found  that the level of 
compensation offered by Barclays was insufficient.  She suggested that Barclays pay another  
£1,400 to Mrs J and they agreed to do so. However,  Mrs J didnt agree, and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. 
I need to consider whether Barclays acted  fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Mrs J. I 
take into account both their view and that of Mrs J. My aim is to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the evidence before me. 
I think we have an extremely unfortunate situation here and I have  every  sympathy for the 
difficult time Mrs J has certainly been through.  Barclays  have acknowledged there were 
fraudulent attempts upon Mrs Js account  and that one of their managers acted highly 
inappropriately by disclosing the complaint details to the staff member concerned.  Barclays  
seem to have recognised  that such action was extremely unprofessional since  they have  
confirmed that the relevant members of staff have been dealt with. Quite how they have 
been dealt with has not been disclosed but I do not think  that it ought  to be. Barclays  have 
given the assurance  that they have  dealt with the matter  appropriately  and I am satisfied, on 
a balance of probabilities that they will have done so. 
Ref: DRN33640222I appreciate that Mrs J has moved home,  placing her further away from her work and her 
childs school, but I cannot be satisfied, since there is no corroborative evidence, that the 
cause of this move  is directly related to the contact Mrs J had with the staff member.  I can 
readily accept that Mrs J would have  felt uncomfortable and distressed at receiving a visit 
from the staff member at work, and I can accept  that she felt threatened. But I have seen no 
evidence to suggest she was actually threatened to the point or that the degree  of the 
threats was such that it warranted her to move  home.
Mrs J was certainly put to a considerable effort in trying to sort the matter out with Barclays  
and I do think she has had to spend  many hours on the telephone and travelling to the 
branch to produce identification documents. All of this would be distressing for her, and 
compounded by the fact that her neighbour knew she had made  the complaint about her.
And I do agree with Mrs J that there is an additional aggravating factor to this complaint in 
that Barclays did tell her that they would update her following their IT investigation, but then 
didnt. I think Barclays raised  a realistic expectation for Mrs J that she would be given  the 
results of the investigation, and it is thus unfair now to not do so. However I cannot compel 
Barclays to make such information available to Mrs J. Having said all of that the complaint 
distils down to what the appropriate level of compensation ought  to be for Mrs J. In my view 
the £100 offer of compensation Barclays made to Mrs J is inadequate. Mrs J has indicated 
that she feels £3,000 would be fair but that is far too high in my view.  
It is always difficult to place a figure  on the level of compensation.  Distress  and 
inconvenience is very subjective and depends  upon  each  set of individual  circumstances. In 
my view I think the suggestion the adjudicator  made was fair and reasonable. It takes the 
overall level of compensation to £1,500 and I think this is probably  in line with the awards  
this service would  make  for distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, albeit 
perhaps at the upper  end. So, I think it is fair and enough to put matters  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold the complaint  against  Barclays. Barclays has already 
paid £100 to Mrs J so my decision  is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay a further 
£1,400 to Mrs J to settle the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3364022