K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr K under  a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse  that he 
electronically signed in November 2016. He received a recall notice from the cars 
manufacturer in November 2018 which said that there  was a possible issue  with the cars 
exhaust gas recirculation  and manifold  and that it should be inspected. Mr Ks car was 
returned to the dealer after it had broken-down  in April 2019, the exhaust gas recirculation 
cooler was replaced  and the dealer said that there were no safety issues with the car.
Mr K complained to Black Horse that the car wasnt of satisfactory as there was a risk of it 
catching fire and that hed stopped using it. It said that Mr K had had the car for 28 months, 
covered approximately 29,600 miles in it and there was no evidence to suggest that it wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that there 
was no evidence to show that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply and 
she was unable to identify any evidence that the issues  that Mr K reported were  caused by 
an inherent defect present  at the point  of sale. She said that shed received confirmation  that 
the exhaust gas recirculation cooler  had been  replaced and there  were  no safety issues  
associated with the car.
Mr K has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that: the car should last for five years; it passed  an MOT test in February but that didnt 
include a test of the exhaust gas recirculation; the exhaust gas recirculation cooler was 
leaking on his car when it broke-down; the courtesy car that he was given wasnt adequate; 
and he wasnt give any guarantee for the new part that was fitted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was about  a year and half old, 
had been driven  for 20,377 miles and had a price  of £41,490. Satisfactory quality also covers 
durability which means  that the components within the car must be durable  and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr K in November 2016 and he received the recall  notice about two 
years later. When he complained to Black  Horse hed had the car for about  28 months and it 
said that hed driven  approximately  29,600 miles in it.
Ref: DRN35500472He says that the car broke-down in April 2018  and the exhaust gas recirculation cooler was 
leaking. The car was recovered  to the dealer and the cooler was replaced. The dealer says 
that there  were then no safety issues with the car. 
The car had passed an MOT test in February  2019  when  its mileage  was recorded as being  
45,008 and it passed an MOT test in February  2020  when its mileage was recorded as 
48,963 miles. 
I can understand Mr Ks concern about  receiving a recall notice and about the issue that he 
had with the cars exhaust gas recirculation cooler.  But that issue didnt  occur  until nearly 
two and a half years after the car was supplied  to him and between  November  2016  and 
February 2019 the car had been driven for nearly  25,000 miles. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the car was faulty when it was 
supplied to Mr K - so I dont consider that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time. The 
fault with the exhaust gas recirculation cooler  was repaired by the dealer at no cost to Mr K 
and he was provided with a courtesy  car. He says that the courtesy car wasnt adequate but 
I dont consider that to be something for which Black Horse is liable. I dont consider that 
there was any requirement for the dealer  to provide  Mr K with a guarantee for the part that it 
replaced.
I consider that Black  Horse has responded to the issues  that Mr K has raised  appropriately. 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to allow 
Mr K to reject the car, to pay him any compensation or to take any other  action in response 
to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3550047