K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how the settlement figure  was calculated  when he ended his hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse  Limited  trading  as Jaguar Financial Services.  He 
believes Black  Horse  should not have deferred the settlement date and charged  him more 
interest than it should have when the agreement was ended. He believes this had the effect 
of increasing the overall interest rate. And he says he wasnt  told about  this charge when he 
took the agreement.
background
In March 2017 Mr N took a hire purchase  agreement  with Black Horse  to acquire a car.
In October  2017, Mr N called Black  Horse and asked for a settlement figure. This was given 
as £7,687.68 which included a rebate of £552.61. Mr N asked Black Horse for information  
about how this was calculated, which was provided to him. In November 2017, Mr N paid off 
the balance and the account was closed.
In December 2017 Mr N complained to Black Horse. He said he understood that the 
calculation was done in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early  Settlement) 
Regulations 2004, which gave Black Horse  the right to defer  the settlement date by one 
month. He said the effect of this was to charge an extra months  interest. But, Mr N told 
Black Horse  the regulations say it may  defer  the settlement date but dont say it should  
so he feels Black Horse should  not have deferred the date. 
Mr N also said the amount charged  was a surprise. He said the Consumer Credit  (Disclosure 
of Information) Regulations 2010  say any charges deriving from the credit agreement  should 
be explained  in the pre-contract information. And he said the Consumer Credit (Agreements)  
Regulations 2010 say any charges deriving from the credit agreement should  be included  on 
the agreement.
Mr N also said that the extra  interest  increased  the APR of the agreement.  He said the 
Consumer Credit (Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2010 say that if differing interest 
rates are charged this information must  be provided.
In January 2018 Black Horse issued its final response letter (FRL). It said it wasnt  
upholding Mr Ns complaint. It said it calculated a settlement date from 28 days  when it was 
requested. And, it said it could add another months  interest to this, which it said is explained 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).  It said all required costs  were listed on the Pre 
Contract Credit Information  Document. It also said interest was calculated  using a daily rate, 
not the APR.
Mr N was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said Black Horse  had provided information  to Mr N about  how the 
settlement was calculated  before he paid off the finance. She said Black Horse  was entitled 
to charge an extra months interest on the settlement. And she said the interest  rate hadnt 
changed.
Mr N disagreed. He said not including details  of the additional charge on the documents  
went against the spirit of the CCA. He said section 95A of the CCA doesnt apply in his case.  
He also reiterated  his original points and said the requirements of the Consumer Credit 
(Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2010 should  apply to his case. 
Ref: DRN30559182Because Mr N didnt agree with the investigators  opinion, the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N took a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse. This is a regulated finance 
agreement, so we can investigate Mr Ns complaint about the administration  of the 
agreement against  Black Horse.
Mr N had given a lot of specific detail about why hes unhappy with Black  Horse. What I 
need to consider is  did Black Horse have  the right to defer  the settlement date? Did this 
affect the APR of the agreement?  And, did Black  Horse  make any charges  clear  on the 
agreement? 
Ill think about each  of these issues in turn.
Did Black Horse  have  a right to defer the settlement  of the account  by 58 days?
When settling the finance early,  Mr N didnt have to pay all of the interest he wouldve  had to 
pay had the agreement run for its full term. This saving is known as a rebate. Mr N is 
effectively complaining that this was calculated incorrectly, and he believes he shouldve 
been entitled to more  of a rebate. So, Ill consider if this was the case  or not.
Black Horse  said in its FRL that section 95A of the CCA specifies a right for it to claim a 
compensatory amount if an agreement is settled early. In summary, this section  of the CCA  
explains a creditor can claim costs, with certain restrictions, that its incurred as a result of 
early settlement of a consumer credit agreement.
Mr N said he thinks section 95A shouldnt  apply, as his settlement payment was less than 
£8,000. I agree with Mr N on this point. Section 95A explains costs  can be claimed  if:
the amount  of the payment under Section 94 exceeds £8,000  or, where  more  than one such 
payment is made in any 12 month  period the total of those payments exceeds £8,000
Mr Ns settlement was £7,687.68. As far as Im aware, he didnt make any more settlement 
payments when he had the agreement. So, I dont  think  section 95A applies in this case. It 
follows that Im satisfied Black Horse  cant rely on this as an explanation for it deferred  the 
settlement date. But, Im not satisfied this means it couldnt defer the date. Ill explain why.
The Consumer Credit  (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 are relevant  to this complaint. 
Section 5 (a) explains, in summary,  that the settlement date for a calculation  of rebate will be 
taken to be 28 days from when a debtor gives notice to repay borrowing. Section 6 explains 
that where borrowing was to be repaid  over a period of one year,  then the settlement date 
can be deferred by one month or 30 days.  Mr Ns agreement was to be repaid over 25 
months, so Im satisfied  this applies.
In its explanation to Mr N of how it would work out the settlement figure, Black Horse 
explained it took the settlement date to be 28 days from when the request was made. It then 
Ref: DRN30559183said it was allowed to add one further months  interest to this date when calculating the 
settlement figure. Im satisfied this is in line with The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004 as explained above.
So, even though Section  95A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  doesnt apply in this case,  
Im satisfied the Consumer Credit  (Early  Settlement) regulations 2004 do apply. These 
entitled Black Horse to defer the settlement  date by 58 days - which  it did in this case.  So, it 
follows I dont think Black Horse did anything wrong in its calculations of Mr Ns rebate.
I appreciate Mr Ns point that the specific wording of the regulations say the settlement date 
may be deferred by one month. He makes  the point that this means Black Horse wasnt 
required to do this. I agree with Mr N that Black Horse werent  required  to defer the 
settlement date by a month. But, it was entitled  to. So, I dont think it did anything  wrong  by 
choosing to take this option.
Did deferring the settlement  date raise the APR of the agreement?
Mr N says the effect of the extra interest raised the APR of the agreement. He says no 
information was provided that this would be the case.
Black Horse  has explained that a daily rate of interest was used  to calculate the rebate, not 
the APR.
Ive thought about this carefully.  In effect,  Mr N makes the point that he believes he was 
charged a higher rate of interest  than that stated on the agreement. But, I dont agree that 
the interest rate Mr N was charged changed at any point. Mr N effectively paid interest for a 
longer period than he would have if Black  Horse didnt defer the settlement date. But the 
actual rate of interest didnt change.
Because Im satisfied  the rate didnt change, I dont think Black  Horse needed to explain 
anything further  about this on the documents Mr N received at the time the agreement  was 
taken.
Did Black Horse  make  any applicable charges clear?
Mr N said that there was no mention in the documents that were given to him at the time he 
agreed to the finance that an extra charge would be payable if he settled the agreement  
early. He says the Consumer Credit (Disclosure of Information) regulations 2010 and the 
Consumer Credit (Agreements)  Regulations 2010  say this must be done. Both of these 
regulations refer to including details  of charges deriving from the credit agreement in 
pre-contact information and credit agreements respectively.
The rebate is an amount  of interest  that Mr N is due back from the interest  payable,  and the 
reduction is an amount  applied to this by deferring  the settlement date  as Im satisfied 
Black Horse  was entitled to do. Looking at the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004 sections 5 and 6, nowhere is the deferred rebate described as a charge. 
Thinking about  this, I dont think the reduction in the rebate Mr N received would be a 
charge deriving from the credit agreement. I think the extra cost was interest,  rather  than a 
charge. The amount of interest Mr N was due to pay over the term of the agreement was set 
out in the agreement  and Mr N paid less than this. So, it follows  that I dont think  the 
regulations Mr N mentioned required Black  Horse to include further details.
Ref: DRN30559184Summary
In summary,  I dont think Black Horse  did anything wrong by deferring the settlement date as 
it did on Mr Ns agreement. Im satisfied this didnt increase the rate of interest applied to the 
agreement. And, Im satisfied the reduction in rebate isnt a charge. So, I dont think 
Black Horse  needs to take any action on these points.
Mr N has made some  detailed arguments about his case. I want  to reassure him that Ive 
considered everything  hes told us, including what he said about the spirit of the regulations. 
But, this doesnt  change my opinion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3055918