K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) has obstructed  the rebuilding of his family  
home according to the plans hes submitted under his claim on his home insurance policy.
background
Mr Ns family  home was seriously  damaged by fire in February 2018 and he and his family 
have been living in alternative  accommodation since then.  His house  has subsequently been  
set for demolition. Mr N brought a previous  complaint  about  UKIs handling of his claim in 
2018 and he was compensated for poor service  and delays.
Mr Ns present complaint  is that UKI has unreasonably challenged his plans for the rebuild of 
his home.  He says that it reneged on an agreement to rebuild his home with his suppliers  
and its loss adjuster  behaved unprofessionally.  He said he hadnt refused a meeting with the 
architects and quantity surveyor  contrary to whats  been said. He said that during March  
2019 the loss adjusters were trying  to justify the figures produced by their quantity surveyor.  
UKI said Mr Ns plans  represent a more  extensive  rebuild than a like-for-like rebuild. It said 
its loss adjusters have  been in protracted exchanges with Mr N while he and his family  are in 
alternative accommodation. UKI said Mr Ns contents claim has been settled in full, with 
payment of the sum insured. UKI extended  the rental agreement on Mr Ns alternative  
accommodation until 25 August 2019. But Mr N said UKIs loss adjuster wrote  to him in 
March 2019 implying they intended to make his family homeless at the end of August 2019.
Mr N said UKI wont pay for his structural engineers report because they have not approved 
the appointment of an engineer, though  this had been previously agreed. He said this is 
symptomatic of their obstructiveness, whilst they blamed him for delays. 
Mr N said he understood that his house must be rebuilt as close as possible to the original 
structure and he had worked  with architects to achieve this. He said he rejected alternative  
plans he could have  put forward because they were too different. He said the plans 
submitted to the local authority are the only plans to rebuild the house as close as possible 
to the original and which  meet current regulations and there are no other plans that do this. 
Mr N said he didnt understand UKIs position and believes its attempting to avoid paying to 
rebuild the property using his suppliers. He said this was illustrated  by the loss adjuster 
suggesting a cash settlement.  Mr N said the loss adjuster obtained a report from a structural 
engineer and a quantity  surveyor confirming a difference in the construction  costs between  
the options. Mr N said the quantity surveyors findings were flawed and the loss adjuster 
tried to instruct another with the findings to be binding on the parties  forming  the basis  of any 
cash settlement. Mr N said this was against  the terms  of the previous agreement with UKI. 
UKIs loss adjuster  said Mr Ns rebuild  plans were different in design,  structure  and costs  
from the original. He said Mr Ns plans would extend the footprint of the property and cost 
about £65,000 more than a like-for-like replacement. UKI said if differences couldnt be 
resolved it may make a cash settlement for the claim. UKI suggested a quantity surveyor be 
appointed to cost the work,  but agreement about this couldnt be reached  with Mr N. UKI 
appointed solicitors to deal with the claim on its behalf. Mr N said this had raised his costs. 
Mr N has made a subsequent complaint to UKI concerning the demolition  of his home. This 
wont be considered  as part of the present complaint.
Ref: DRN31471442Our investigator initially recommended the appointment  of a quantity surveyor  and that Mr N 
meet UKIs professionals to resolve  differences. He said it was Mr Ns decision to appoint  a 
solicitor and not UKIs responsibility. 
Mr N said UKI had caused delays and distress  throughout the claim and wouldnt treat him 
fairly. He said he would consider a cash offer in settlement  of his claim but reserved the right 
to have his suppliers rebuild his home.  He said he was forced to appoint  solicitors to defend 
himself against UKIs adversarial solicitors  who have  repeatedly  attempted  to get away with 
onerous and unacceptable  restrictions. Mr N requested an ombudsman review his 
complaint.
In July 2020 Mr Ns solicitors told UKI he would agree to a meeting but with conditions. UKI 
said it would  make a cash  offer for his claim and confirmed his alternative accommodation 
was extended  until Christmas 2020, but said its offer would fund this until July 2021. 
I understand that the parties could not agree to the conditions for a meeting with a quantity 
surveyor and UKI has made  an offer of cash settlement to Mr N for his claim,  which  Mr N 
has rejected. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this complaint to concern the design of the rebuild of Mr Ns home and the 
disagreement of the parties  as to whether or not this represents a like-for-like  replacement 
of Mr Ns destroyed home. Mr N says UKI are not taking proper care, ignoring regulations 
and trying to rebuild his home on the cheap. 
My first resort is to the policy to see what it says about the restoration  of loss or damage.  
The policy covers Mr Ns home  for fire damage  and acts as a standard  indemnity policy.  In 
other words, its purpose is to put him back as closely as possible to the position  he was in 
before the fire. The policy requires him to provide any relevant information and evidence  that 
UKI ask for in pursuit of his claim.
Both parties  have employed construction experts  and remain in disagreement about  what is 
reasonable. We are not experts  in building design and construction  and so it wouldnt be 
right for me to determine which sides plans are closest to the principle of a like-for-like 
rebuild. Consequently,  I have concentrated on Mr Ns complaint about  UKIs handling of the 
claim to see if it is responsible for the slow progress and impasse that has been  reached.  
Ive considered the actions of UKIs loss adjusters and can see there  was some confusion 
over the initial  quantity surveyors  work and a further  quantity surveyor was appointed. I dont 
think this or questions over Mr Ns temporary accommodation were a deliberate  attempt to 
delay the rebuild or to pressure Mr N into accepting a cash settlement as he suggests.  And I 
dont think this represents UKI reneging  on a previous agreement.
The loss adjuster is required to protect an insurer from unnecessary expense.  In Mr Ns case  
the loss adjuster considered that the rebuilding plans he had put forward represented a
more extensive  rebuild than like-for-like. And as Mr N completely  disagreed  with this a 
prolonged passage of negotiation and evidence  gathering was bound  to follow.
Ref: DRN31471443I have seen that UKIs loss adjusters entered into protracted exchanges with Mr N and both 
parties appointed  solicitors who became  part of the process. This reached  a stalemate which 
was very unfortunate as it was in all parties  interest to have  the rebuild progress as quickly  
as possible. However,  it is an insurers right to ensure its losses dont exceed the extent  of 
its liability from the insurance policy. And, on the whole, I think this is what  UKI and its loss 
adjuster were doing.
It is also an insurers right to use the services of a solicitor to communicate  on its behalf 
where it feels this is appropriate.  And it was Mr Ns choice to use solicitors to respond  he 
was not threatened with legal action  at any stage and I havent found UKIs  solicitors 
communications to be adversarial and so I dont agree that he was forced to defend himself. 
As concerns professional  fees that Mr N says should be reimbursed by UKI, its a 
requirement of the policy that these are agreed by UKI before it is liable for payment. I 
havent seen anything to indicate these were agreed  before costs were submitted by Mr N to 
UKI. UKI has met some of these costs but I dont think its unreasonable  for it to decline 
further payment  to Mr N.
From considering the timeline of the claim I can see time was lost by all parties in requesting 
evidence that wasnt received. UKIs  loss adjuster requested, but didnt receive  evidence  and 
information from Mr N about his plans. Mr N requested more information about  UKIs plans. 
The loss adjuster proposed a quantity surveyor  report in several  letters to Mr N as well as 
requesting a schedule of works in support of his plans. The loss adjuster also requested  a 
meeting with Mr N. I realise Mr N had concerns about this, but I think it was a reasonable 
request to which Mr N failed to respond in a way that might have progressed  his claim. I 
havent found that UKI is responsible for the principal delays in Mr Ns claim. 
I can understand Mr Ns point that it wouldnt  be possible to identically rebuild his house and 
hes correct to say the policy doesnt require this. Mr N says hes confident the cost 
assessments of his plans  would be well within the scope of the claim settlement.  UKI 
remains of the view that Mr Ns schedule of works is fundamentally flawed and represent 
betterment. In order  to address this and resolve  differences UKIs proposal for a quantity 
surveyor report was reasonable and may have led to an agreed settlement. 
The policy allows  UKI the option to make a cash payment  to settle a claim. The policy  states 
that UKI wont pay more  than the amount it would have cost us to repair  or rebuild  the 
damaged part using our own suppliers. 
I havent seen  the details  of UKIs  cash offer in settlement of Mr Ns claim, but I understand 
that he has rejected  it. It is open to Mr N to bring a complaint about the offer to UKI and then 
to our service, as well as about the demolition of his home. But I think  before this the parties 
should make  best efforts  to reach  a negotiated agreement. I also think Mr N should 
reconsider UKIs suggestion of a quantity surveyor assessment before bringing a further 
complaint, so that a proposed settlement can be based  on further expert  opinion.
From considering the evidence and submissions, Ive found that the claim could have  been  
progressed by all the parties at times  when little or no progress was made. But overall I 
havent seen evidence by which to uphold  Mr Ns complaints about UKI or its agents. I 
realise this will be disappointing  to Mr N, but I think the concentration of effort now needs to 
be made or reaching  an agreed outcome to the claim  and getting  his home rebuilt.
Ref: DRN31471444my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3147144