K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is complaining about  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  because  it declined her claim 
on her critical  illness insurance policy.
background
Mrs M took out a life and critical illness insurance  policy in 2013 providing  cover of £500,000.  
Shes since claimed due to her rheumatoid arthritis but Aviva hasnt paid out because it 
doesnt think her condition meets the policy requirements.
Mrs M has complained to the ombudsman service about this before. Most recently, one of 
my colleagues issued a decision requiring Aviva to arrange an independent medical 
examination (IME) and a functional capacity evaluation (FCE)  before reassessing  her claim.
Mrs M arranged her own IME with a consultant rheumatologist, Dr R. His report dated 6 July 
2018 supports  her view she has destruction and deformity of three major joint groups.
Aviva also arranged for Mrs M to undergo  a FCE with an osteopath and qualified functional  
capacity evaluator,  Mr N. Either side of this assessment, and unknown to Mrs M, Aviva also 
arranged for a private investigator to carry  out filmed surveillance.  The footage was shared 
with Mr N, who provided further comments in addition to his original  report. His overall 
conclusion was that Mrs M was exaggerating her symptoms and was able to carry out the 
activities listed in the policy  terms.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. After reviewing the available  
evidence, including  the IME and FCE reports and the surveillance footage,  she didnt think 
there was enough  to show  Mrs M is unable to carry out the relevant  activities  or that the 
policy requirements have  been met.
Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators assessment. In support of her complaint, shes made 
the following  key points:
She thinks the FCE and surveillance reports are biased and unreliable.
Shes unhappy with the way everything was organised and thinks  the situation  was 
engineered so the outcome would  be in Avivas favour. 
She doesnt think the FCE was a valid assessment, noting in particular that Mr N 
didnt carry out a physical examination of her affected joints.
She also thinks Aviva breached various  rules  and guidance  in arranging the 
surveillance and interpreting the results.
Shes noted the FCE report refers to inconsistencies and discrepancies,  meaning it 
cant be relied upon. And also that the surveillance footage Mr N commented on had 
been edited.
She says she cant carry out the everyday activities listed  in the policy  on her own. 
While she was observed carrying  out some of these in the surveillance footage, shes 
only able to do so with the use of appropriate  aids and supports, and insoles in her 
shoes to aid walking.
Ref: DRN36107422She says the distance she was observed to walk was less than 200 metres  and that 
she was in extreme discomfort  doing  it.
She says the extent  of her limitations can vary from one day to the next and that 
shes able to do more  on some days than others.  She also says her family  and other  
commitments mean she has no choice but to push  herself beyond  her incapacity on 
occasions. When she does this, it causes extreme pain and discomfort,  although she 
doesnt necessarily  show that on her face or in her general demeanour.
She also provided photographs of some of her joints to demonstrate the extent of her 
problems.
She thinks Avivas assessment has focussed  on the issue of whether shes  
permanently disabled.  This isnt required by the policy and shouldnt be a 
consideration.
More recently, Aviva  told Mrs M its cancelling her policy because it feels she exaggerated 
her symptoms in an attempt to deceive. A separate complaint has been  set up to consider 
this point and I havent looked  at it here.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons.
Before going any further, I can see Mrs M is suffering from severe health issues  and I have 
nothing but sympathy  for the position she finds herself in. I realise shes been  going through 
a very difficult time.
Mrs M has made detailed submissions and Ive read and considered  these carefully. But I 
havent tried to address every single point  shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the key 
issues I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.  Ive also not commented on the 
photographs shes sent us as I prefer to rely on the evidence from the appropriately qualified 
medical professionals who have  been directly involved  in examining and assessing her 
condition for themselves.
For a claim to be paid, the policy terms require the following definition is satisfied:
Severe chronic rheumatoid arthritis evidenced by joint destruction  and deformity  of at 
least three major  joint groups, resulting in the inability to do three of the following; 
bend or kneel  to pick up an object from the floor;  use hands or fingers to pick up or 
manipulate small objects such as cutlery  or a pen; lift or carry an everyday object 
such as a kettle; walk a distance of 200m  on flat ground with or without the use of a 
walking stick and without  experiencing  severe  discomfort.
Theres no dispute Mrs M has been  diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis  and the report she 
recently obtained from Dr R is compelling  evidence she has joint destruction  and deformity  in 
three major joint groups  shoulder, hip and feet. My colleague has already decided  in his 
previous decision  that Mrs Ms feet and ankles should be seen  as a major joint for the 
purposes of this claim.
Ref: DRN36107423The issue  at the centre  of this dispute is whether Mrs Ms illness prevents her carrying  out at 
least three of the four everyday activities listed. These are:
bend or kneel  to pick up an object from the floor;
use hands or fingers to pick up or manipulate small objects such as cutlery  or a pen;
lift or carry  an everyday object  such as a kettle;  and
walk a distance of 200m on flat ground with or without the use of a walking stick and 
without experiencing severe  discomfort.
Dr R didnt comment directly on Mrs Ms ability to carry  out these activities. But the FCE did 
focus on them and Mr N gave his opinion, initially in a report  dated 25 October  2018  and 
then again, after he saw the surveillance  footage, in a supplementary report  dated 25 
November 2018.
Mr Ns initial  report  included several references to Mrs M exaggerating her symptoms  and 
concluded:
Based on the above inconsistencies  and discrepancies, it is concluded that Mrs Ms 
demonstrated functional  abilities cannot  represent  her true capabilities,  and I can 
only therefore conclude  that her actual abilities are far greater  than she was willing to 
perform during the FCE.
After viewing the surveillance  footage,  Mr Ns supplementary report concluded it wholly 
concurs with his original  assessment  quoted  above.
I appreciate Mrs M has concerns about the way the FCE was conducted. But Im satisfied Mr 
N was appropriately  qualified to perform the assessment and that it focussed and 
commented directly on the issues needed to decide whether her condition  meets  the policy  
definition. Ive no reason to question Mr Ns independence or professionalism. I also believe 
it was for him to decide  how the assessment should be conducted and the methods used. If 
he felt a physical  examination of Mrs Ms joints was required for example, he had the 
opportunity to do that.
I note the FCE refers to inconsistencies and discrepancies,  but these comments  were 
referring to inconsistencies in the way Mrs M had reported her symptoms  and how she 
performed during the evaluation.  This appears to have been  a significant factor in Mr Ns 
final conclusions. I dont  think  this means  the validity of the report or the conclusions  reached 
should be questioned and Im satisfied his views are consistent  throughout his reports.
In terms of the surveillance,  the private investigator  didnt comment  on the footage captured  
and Ive seen  nothing to indicate it received  any of Mrs Ms personal details beyond what 
was needed to identify her for the purpose of filming. The Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) has previously  issued  guidance on the use of private investigators that does refer to 
the editing of footage. But it explains its only guidance and hasnt been confirmed by the 
industry regulator. In any event, Ive no reason to think the footage has been  manipulated to 
show anything that didnt happen  and if Mr N felt he needed  to see more  extensive, unedited 
footage, he could have asked for it. As it was, he felt the evidence  he saw was enough to 
support his original  conclusion  that Mrs M had exaggerated her symptoms.
I agree  with Mrs M that a consideration of whether or not shes permanently disabled  isnt 
relevant to this claim. From my review, I dont think the correspondence and other evidence 
Ref: DRN36107424shows Aviva  has incorrectly applied that test. I can also clarify  that my assessment has 
focussed on whether  or not she can carry out the four everyday activities  listed  in the policy 
definition above.
In respect of those activities, I think Mr N is clear, based on his testing and the movements 
and other  actions he observed in the surveillance  footage, that he doesnt  think Mrs Ms 
limitations are so severe she cant perform them at this stage. As an independent observer 
and experienced practitioner in his field, I find his evidence compelling. The footage shows  
Mrs M covering a considerable distance during a short period of time. I cant  say for certain 
whether any of the separate walks  she made was more than 200 metres. But even if I 
accepted she cant walk that distance, even  with the aid of a stick, this is only one of three 
activities the policy requires shes unable to carry out.
Mrs M believes the policy terms  are ambiguous, but I dont share that view. I appreciate she 
says she wears supports  and insoles to help her, but the policy doesnt say she has to be 
able to carry out the various activities without this type of assistance.  If the use of supports 
and other  aids mean shes  able to bend or lift objects for example, I think  its reasonable to 
say she can perform those tasks. This is consistent  with my interpretation  of the wording for 
the walking activity that requires her to be unable to do it with or without a stick.
I understand Mrs Ms limitations may be worse  on some days than others and that 
sometimes she feels she needs  to push herself  because of her family  and other 
commitments. I also note she says she doesnt  always show the level of pain and discomfort 
shes experiencing. While I can see that Mrs Ms arthritis causes her some  difficulty,  the fact 
she can carry out these  activities some of the time,  albeit with some discomfort  (whether she 
shows it or not), doesnt support the conclusion  that she cant carry them out at all.
I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mrs M and isnt what  she 
was hoping to hear.  Ive considered her comments carefully but on balance, I dont think  the 
medical evidence  shows her arthritis currently prevents her from carrying out three  or more  
of the activities listed  in the policy  definition.  As a result, Im satisfied Aviva is entitled  to 
decline her claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3610742