K820x#14complaint
Mr B is complaining about the amount he had to pay to install a replacement boiler Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva)  provided under his home  emergency insurance policy. 
background
During the annual service  in June 2018  Mr Bs boiler  suffered further damage and Avivas  
engineer said it wasnt  possible  to repair it. Under  the terms of his Aviva home emergency 
insurance policy, Mr B was entitled to a new boiler. But because the boiler was more than 
seven years old Mr B had to pay for the installation. Avivas agent quoted Mr B around 
£1,300 to fit the boiler, which Mr B initially agreed  to and paid. But he later called back and 
said that hed got quotes from local engineers  who he says would install  the boiler for around 
£500-600. So he called Aviva the day before the boiler was to be installed to ask if it would 
do a supply only contract.  But Aviva  said it wouldnt do so.
Mr B complained to Aviva that it didnt  allow  him to use his own engineer and he also said 
that the agents quote was excessive. Aviva said that Mr B had already accepted  and paid its 
agents quote. So it didnt think it had acted  unfairly.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Mr B had a choice  of who 
installed the boiler and Mr B had accepted and paid the quote before  he raised his concerns 
in respect to the cost with Aviva. She also said that, while  the cost may be higher, it doesnt  
mean that he was being overcharged.  She said that the different costs could be down to the 
quality of the service  or the precise work thats included in the cost.  So she wasnt 
persuaded that Mr Bs quote was a like-for-like quote. So she didnt think Aviva had acted 
unfairly.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
The terms of Mr Bs insurance policy say that Aviva will provide a replacement  boiler  if its 
unable to repair his existing boiler.  But, where  the boiler is more than seven years old  as 
Mr Bs boiler was  Mr B has to pay to have  it installed. Mr B is unhappy with how much  he 
had to pay as he says Avivas quote  was around £700 more  than the quote  he got from a 
local company. 
Ive looked at the terms of the policy and they dont say that Mr B had to use Avivas own 
agent. The policy says Aviva will provide a quote  for the work  needed  to replace the boiler.  
But it doesnt say Mr B has to use that contractor or is bound  by the quote. So, I think this 
means that Mr B had a choice who installs the boiler. I also think thats fair, given hes the 
one paying for the installation. 
I can see that Mr B asked Aviva to only supply the boiler and hed arrange to have it 
installed, but Aviva said it wasnt  willing to do that. I think it was wrong that Aviva told him 
Ref: DRN36389552that it wouldnt only supply the boiler  as, after all, thats the only thing that the policy covers. 
However, I also need to think  about  whether the amount Aviva  did ask him to pay was unfair. 
Its not in dispute  that Avivas quote  was larger than Mr Bs quote.  And I can understand why 
Mr B may think that the quotes were inflated. But Ive reviewed the quote  Mr B has provided 
and Im not persuaded theyre like-for-like services. Aviva has also raised the following 
reasons why it also thinks theyre not like-for-like:
It says that the quote provided  by Mr B confirms this is a combi to combi  boiler  swap.  So it 
says that all the private engineer would  have done  is take one combi boiler out and put a 
new combi boiler in. However,  it says that its agents quote included  the following:
Chimney Structure  supply and fitting of the correct  flue for the boiler and location 
inclusive of Plume Kits and Vertical Chimney Structure;
Controls  7 Day Time and Temperature (only if the existing controls are not suitable)
Control Valves  S Plan / Y Plan and Pump shall be replaced along with the boiler  to 
ensure the full integrity of the system is fully maintained (Heat Only / System Boilers);
Condensate  Pipe Work  to be fitted  in line with Manufacturers Instructions;
All associated Pipe Work & Fittings required to complete the installation;
Power Flush or System Cleanse in line with Manufacturers Instructions;
Class  O Lagging  for external use only;
Electrical Minor Works Certification;
Removal and disposal  of the Customers old boiler in line with applicable environmental  
Laws and Regulations
Its also highlighted that the installation also comes  with a guarantee from a trusted trader 
where the private quote does not state any guarantee  on the installation.
In addition to this, Im also not persuaded that this would  be the actual cost Mr B would incur 
as I think its unlikely to be based on the engineer  visiting and inspecting  Mr Bs property, 
rather than Mr B asking for an estimate  on the installation costs.  So its possible the £500 
quote Mr B received  may not have been the final cost.  
I also note that Mr B was very keen to have the boiler installed as soon as possible. And he 
didnt provide any alternative  installation quotes  until after hed already paid Avivas  agent 
and until the day before the boiler was going to be installed. Aviva did give him the option  to 
cancel the appointment and seek alternative arrangements, but Mr B didnt want  to do so as 
he needed the boiler installing urgently. While I can understand why Mr B thought  this, I cant 
say this was down to anything  Aviva  did. And theres also no guarantee that Mr Bs 
contractor could have  installed  the boiler in the timeframes Mr B required.
Ive taken all this into account but, ultimately, Im not persuaded  that Mr B has actually  lost 
out in this case by being  required  to use Avivas agent. So I cant require it to refund  any of 
the cost he incurred in installing the boiler.
Ref: DRN36389553my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3638955