K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with HSBC UK Bank  Plcs decision to hold him responsible  for transactions  
he says he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr M was in Cyprus and went to a gentlemens  club. He says he agreed to pay €20 on the 
door which was for entry and a drink. He says he used his HSBC  card for this transaction 
and this was the only time he used his card.
Mr M says he only stayed  at the club for around  thirty minutes and then left. He says he 
withdrew €50 for food and a taxi home.
When Mr M checked his account the next day he saw the two transactions in dispute: one 
for €200 at 22:38:16 (£176.90) and one for €300 at 22:38:48 (£265.35). He contacted the 
bank to report them as fraudulent. He said he hadnt made or authorised  them. He told the 
bank he still had his card and itd never been out of his possession. He also confirmed no 
one knew his PIN and there was no record of it anywhere.
HSBC raised a fraud case and investigated.  It looked at how the transactions had been 
made and confirmed they were both chip and PIN verified. It couldnt then see how anyone 
other than Mr M had made the transactions, given  what hed said about his card and PIN.
HSBC did also obtain evidence from the merchant  involved  in the transactions. It was 
supplied with printed card receipts as well as a handwritten invoice for agreed services and a 
declaration that appeared to be signed  by Mr M. 
HSBC declined Mr Ms claim based  on the evidence it had. 
Mr M was unhappy with the banks response and so brought the complaint to us. He 
accepted he might be responsible for the first transaction, believing the merchant may have 
entered an extra zero; when he thought he was paying €20 he was actually paying €200. But 
he said he definitely didnt  authorise a second  transaction. 
He also pointed to online reviews of the club which appear to mirror  the circumstances Mr M 
says he found  himself in. And he thought the receipts and invoices provided by the club had 
been altered.
One of our investigators  looked into things but couldnt see the bank  had done  anything 
wrong. She agreed  the genuine card and PIN had been used to make the transactions.  She 
couldnt find a reasonable explanation  for how someone could have made both the 
payments, or perhaps just the second one, without Mr M knowing.
She also didnt think  a cloned  card had been used as the bank had demonstrated  the chip in 
Mr Ms card had been read. She accepted a magnetic  stripe  might be cloned but explained  
weve seen no evidence  the chip can be. And she pointed out that the funds in the Mr Ms 
account hadnt been used  in full. Which didnt  indicate a fraudster being in operation.
Mr M initially accepted the investigators  opinion but later decided hed like the case  to be 
reviewed. And so its been passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN39559032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
HSBC can generally  only hold Mr M responsible for transactions he has authorised himself. 
Rules to that effect are set out in the Payment Service  Regulations 2009 (applicable at the 
time of the transaction). If there are transactions that Mr M hasnt authorised then the bank 
would normally have  to refund. And so the question I must answer is whether I think its 
more likely than not Mr M did consent  to the payments hes disputing. 
Im satisfied Mr Ms genuine card was used for both transactions. The banks  evidence  does 
show the chip in the car d was read. And its true our service has seen no evidence  to 
suggest the chip in a card can be cloned. 
I can also see further evidence which shows its unlikely  a cloned card was being used. 
There appear to be no other  attempts  at transactions  after the second €300 payment. That 
would be strange if a fraudster had a working  cloned card to use, particularly as there  were  
funds available  in Mr Ms account. But no one even  attempts a third transaction.
Mr M has said he always had possession of his card. And so there doesnt appear to have 
been any occasion when someone was able to take it from him and use it. I also have  in 
mind such  a person  would also have had to return Mr Ms card without him noticing.
I can see the two transactions take place  very close together; theyre only 32 seconds apart. 
And so there seems to be no opportunity for someone to have taken Mr Ms card away from 
him. 
If Mr M is correct in what hes said, and the €200  transaction was meant to be his €20 entry 
fee I cant see how the card would  be removed form his possession, used and returned to 
him in such a short timeframe without  him noticing.  
If Mr M is wrong  about  the first transaction, and he didnt actually pay the entrance  fee on his 
HSBC card,  then Im without an explanation as to how someone  would have  gained  
knowledge of the PIN. In this scenario he wouldnt have genuinely used it himself and so 
there wouldve been no opportunity for someone  else to learn what it was. So even  if 
someone could  get hold of his card, they wouldnt be able to verify a transaction with his PIN 
as theres no way they could know it.
Ultimately, based on Mr Ms version  of events, theres no explanation for how an unknown  
third party could have  taken, used and replace his card without him noticing. And theres no 
explanation for how that person would have gained knowledge of the PIN. I can then only 
conclude that he authorised both transactions himself. 
It may be that Mr M wasnt  completely aware of exactly what  payments he was authorising. It 
may even  be that staff at the club somehow tricked  him into making the payments. But on 
the face of it he did authorise them himself. And even  if a scenario involving a lack of 
awareness or being tricked is true, Im afraid Mr M would still be responsible for the 
transactions, as far as HSBC is concerned.  He might have an underlying dispute with the 
club, but HSBC  will have  acted correctly in debiting Mr Ms account. 
Ref: DRN39559033I have considered some of the other points raised by Mr M, including the reviews  hes 
highlighted. But they dont  change my findings. It may be there are reports that sound very 
similar to the circumstances Mr M has described. Im unable to say they should override the 
other evidence I have though, and I must consider  Mr Ms case  on its own merits.
Mr M has also suggested the receipts  and invoices provided by the club have been 
doctored; hes pointed out that some  of the figures have been overwritten. 
I can see the numbers  on the invoice do appear  to have been altered. But I cant say thats  
because of an attempt  to defraud Mr M or if its because the goods and services being  
purchased changed prior to payment. Theres no way for me to tell either way. And so, it 
doesnt alter the outcome.
Mr M did say he left the club after thirty minutes. Ive no way of telling if that is accurate or 
not. It could  still be true whether he authorised both transactions or not. But he has said he 
went on to withdraw €50 at the end of the night. I cant  see that is true though; theres no 
such transaction on the same night as the two in dispute. And so, it appears, Mr Ms 
recollections are at least somewhat unreliable. 
With all the available  evidence in mind I dont find the bank  has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in holding Mr M responsible for the two disputed  transactions.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3955903