K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that First Response Finance Ltd (FRF) mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a car finance  agreement.
background
Briefly:
In 2011 Mr S took applied for and took out finance  to buy a car over the phone. At the same  
time he also took out PPI designed to protect his car finance  payments in the event he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy was a single premium policy where  the cost was added to the loan, repayable 
over the term of the loan. In this case PPI cost around £870 in total, which  added  £20 a 
month to Mr S loan repayments.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said FRF made it clear Mr S didnt have to 
buy PPI if he didnt  want to and it was suitable  for him given his circumstances at the time.
Mr S, through his representative  disagrees.  In summary they say:
Mr S was pressured to take out the policy  the adviser asked a non-standard 
question when Mr S had already said he didnt think it was important to have cover.
Mr S had to ask for a finance quote  without insurance  the adviser  didnt offer it.
The adviser gave  misleading information  about the cost of PPI.
The car finance was over 36 months but the insurance was repayable over a longer 
term meaning Mr S would still be paying  for cover when the car was paid off.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Its not disputed  and its clear to me that FRF advised  and recommended PPI to Mr S. This 
means it had to ensure the policy was suitable for him given his circumstances  and needs  at 
the time.  It also had to give him enough clear and timely information about the 
recommended cover  so he could  decide if he wanted to go ahead with it. Ive kept this in 
mind in deciding  this complaint.
did FRF make it clear  Mr S had a choice  about  PPI?
This was a sale by phone. And FRF has provided  a recording of the phone call between it 
and Mr S. Given  this is from the time, this is the best evidence.  Ive listened to the call 
carefully. Having done  so Im satisfied FRF made  it clear  to Mr S that PPI was optional  and 
that he agreed to take it out knowing he didnt have to.
Ref: DRN30388292Firstly at the start of the call the FRF adviser said the insurances  she was going to discuss  
were optional and wouldnt  affect  the businesses decision to provide Mr S with finance  for 
his vehicle. The adviser explicitly asked Mr S for his consent to include PPI.
Im mindful too that the paperwork which followed the phone call reinforced what was said 
during the call by referring to PPI as optional and by separating  out the cost of the cover  
from the main finance agreement for the car purchase.
I can see  Mr S representative has said that, in its view this was a high pressure sale and 
has referred to part of the call recording,  which it says supports this. It says Mr S said No to 
the question he was asked about whether  it was important  to have cover in place. And was 
then asked a non-standard question  pressuring  him to feel like he had a need for cover  
when hed already said No.
While I accept Mr S said No to the question  referred to, the adviser then asked  him how he 
would make his repayments if he was off work.  And I think  this was a reasonable question to 
ask to clarify  Mr S answer and to explore  further  if Mr S had other means at his disposal  
this was after all an advised sale where  the adviser had to understand and establish Mr S 
demands and needs.  Mr S replied that his family  would help him out.
Mr S representative thinks the advisers  next question about how happy  Mr S family would 
be about having to pay for his car was not a standard question and put pressure on Mr S. 
But I disagree. A reliance  on family or friends  is not a guaranteed  or effective means of 
repayment in the event  of difficulty and so I dont think it was wrong for the adviser  to have 
asked what she did. The tone of the conversation was jovial  and good  natured  and so Im 
not persuaded the adviser went further  than she should have and pressured Mr S into 
having the cover.
Notwithstanding the above the adviser  went on to say that she would provide quotes with 
and without the insurance but said it didnt mean Mr S had to take it out  it would just give 
him an idea of what it would be. 
was PPI suitable  for Mr S?
I think the adviser took steps to establish whether the policy  was suitable based on the 
questions asked during the call. And overall I dont think it was wrong  for FRF to have  
recommended the cover  to Mr S  I think it was suitable. I say this because:
Mr S was eligible  for the cover.
He was employed and didnt have  any existing health conditions  / hadnt recently 
visited a doctor, so he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions and limitations  of 
cover which  might have made  it otherwise unsuitable.
Mr S told the adviser he was entitled to half-pay if he was off work sick and didnt 
have any other  insurances  or means to make his repayments. So I think  he had a 
need for cover. The policy would pay out for up to 12 months  if he became 
unemployed and for the term of the loan for disability. So given he was taking on a 
not insignificant  additional monthly  financial commitment, I think  he wouldve found  
the cover  useful at what would  likely  be a difficult time.
The cost was affordable and within the budget that was discussed.
The policy provided a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early,  so Mr S wouldnt have 
lost out if he wanted  or needed to repay  the loan early.
Ref: DRN30388293did Mr S get clear and timely information  about the recommended cover?
Turning firstly to the cost  the adviser gave Mr S quotes with and without PPI giving initially  
the different  overall monthly and when asked by Mr S, the weekly  total loan repayments 
(Mr S was paid weekly.)
Mr S representative says Mr S had to ask himself  for the quote without PPI. And while  he 
did, the adviser had already told Mr S a couple of minutes earlier  in the call that she would 
do this  in my view it was simply the flow of the conversation that prompted  Mr S to ask at 
the point he did. In any event the different quotes  were given to him.
Mr S representative has also said it thinks the cost information was misleading   the adviser  
said the cost with PPI was only a few pounds different  when in fact it was £20 a month.  But 
the adviser said because the interest rate would be different with and without PPI (the 
interest rate was lower if the insurances were taken) the actual difference  was only a few 
pounds a week. And this wasnt untrue. 
While the adviser didnt explain the discounted interest rate versus  the standard  rate, I dont 
think this information  was important to Mr S in terms of understanding the cost of PPI  I 
think he had enough  at this point to understand the difference in monthly / weekly  cost in 
terms of the overall  loan repayment both with and without PPI.
Ive thought about the fact that the advisers  explanation of the single premium nature of the 
PPI  what the upfront cost was together  with the interest  came  after Mr S had chosen to 
accept the advisers  loan quote with PPI. But he was given an explanation in the call and 
importantly asked again if he was happy to proceed on the basis  of the information hed 
been given  to which he said he was.
Im also mindful that the paperwork Mr S received following the call clearly  set out the cost of 
PPI and in my view supported what hed been told on the phone.
Mr S was given an explanation  of the features and benefits of the cover and the adviser went 
on to talk about the significant exclusions and limitations of cover including existing medical 
condition exclusions.
I think the information about the exclusions and limitations couldve been provided  before 
Mr S was asked if he wanted to go ahead with the cover   hed already said yes at the point 
he was given this information. But given that the cover was ultimately suitable for him  he 
wasnt affected by these exclusions and limitations   there was nothing  that wouldve put 
Mr S off taking the cover out had FRF done  anything more.
Finally I can see that Mr S representative  says the insurance loan was over 42 months but 
the car finance  element  was over 36 months meaning Mr S would be paying for PPI after he 
paid for the car. But thats incorrect  the whole agreement was over 42 months.
So overall Im satisfied PPI was suitable for Mr S and Ive seen nothing  which leads me to 
fairly and reasonably conclude that hes lost out as a result  of taking out PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint or make  any 
award in favour of Mr S.
Ref: DRN30388294Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3038829