K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about Lloyds Bank Plcs  refusal to process a chargeback claim on 
their behalf  for a timeshare membership they purchased in 2004.
background
Mr and Mrs M say that they attended  a timeshare presentation in 2004 and after a number of 
hours  of high-pressure  sales techniques were persuaded  to sign up to a timeshare scheme. 
They say they paid £3000 either by debit card or by cheque.  They say that the scheme was 
mis-sold to them because whenever  they tried to use it their chosen holiday was either  
unavailable or they were  asked to pay more money. 
Mr and Mrs M say they havent  received the service they paid for and believe the timeshare 
company to be operating a scam. And having investigated the company they have found  
many other dissatisfied customers who also believe they have been duped into parting with 
their money under false  pretences.
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs M contacted Lloyds in an attempt to secure  their money  back. 
Lloyds rejected their request saying, in summary that it was to late for it to process a 
chargeback claim even if there was evidence that the 2004  payment had been made by 
debit card, which there wasnt.
Mr and Mrs M were  dissatisfied with the banks response and so they brought  their complaint 
to us.
Our investigator said she didnt believe the bank had done anything  wrong.  She explained 
the details of the chargeback scheme including the time limit of 540 days  allowed by Visa for 
claims to be made. Given that Mr and Mrs M hadnt contacted Lloyds until 2019 about  a 
chargeback for a purchase made in 2004,  this was clearly well outside the time limit.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy about  our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In doing so they repeated the points  they had made previously  and emphasised 
their belief that the company had scammed them out of their money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Im sorry to have  tell 
Mr and Mrs M that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator  for much the 
same reasons.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme operated primarily  by Visa,  MasterCard and 
American Express. Banks that issue debit cards, here Lloyds,  can raise a chargeback  with 
the scheme operator if they believe there is sufficient evidence to support a claim.
The scheme operators set their own rules, which include  time-limits  for a chargeback claim 
to be made.  Visa allows 540 days from the date of the transaction  complained about.
Looking at the details here Mr and Mrs M paid their timeshare membership in 2004  and they 
say it was either by debit  card or by cheque. Having looked at their 2004 bank statements 
there is no evidence  that they paid by debit  card,  which  would be a pre-requisite for a 
Ref: DRN32418772chargeback claim. But even if such evidence existed, a chargeback claim submitted in 2019  
is plainly  well beyond the 540 days allowed after their 2004 purchase.
Mr and Mrs M believe they were pressured  into making the purchase  and have been  
dissatisfied with the service  provided almost from the outset. They  also say they have made 
strenuous efforts to resolve matters with the company and by other means.  But the fact 
remains, and in saying  this I have considerable sympathy with Mr and Mrs M about the 
position they have found themselves  in, not only do they not have evidence that the 
purchase was made with a debit card they are also years too late to be pursuing  a 
chargeback claim.
I know my decision will come as a significant  disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but Im afraid 
that as I have no jurisdiction over Visas chargeback rules, and their claim doesnt fall within  
those rules Im afraid I cannot reasonably uphold it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3241877