K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  has paid to 
settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
alongside his mortgage.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage through Lloyds in March 1990. At the same time he took out a 
number of insurance policies including a PPI policy paid for by monthly  premium.  When Mr K 
complained to Lloyds in 2018 that the PPI had been  mis-sold it upheld his complaint  and 
offered and paid him compensation of £8,003.98.
Mr K was unhappy with the assumptions  that Lloyds said it had made working out his 
compensation. He thought he had paid a higher amount each month  for the PPI and also 
paid it for longer than the dates Lloyds had used in its calculation. So he brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had done was fair. Mr K was still unhappy  and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr K complained to Lloyds,  it upheld his complaint that the PPI he had taken out 
alongside his mortgage had been  mis-sold.  So in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI 
came to be sold. Im only considering if the compensation Lloyds has paid is fair to put Mr K 
as far as possible in the position  he wouldve been in if he hadnt bought the PPI.
Lloyds offered Mr K just over £8,000 in compensation to settle his complaint. This was to 
repay to him all the premiums he had paid for the PPI, plus some compensatory interest for 
any time he was out of pocket.
Lloyds did not have very much data and information  about Mr Ks PPI policy as it was taken 
out so long ago. In carrying out its calculation Lloyds knew  the mortgage had been applied  
for in February 1990 and assumed the PPI began at the same time.  It also knew  that when 
its records started in 2001 PPI premiums were no longer  being  paid. So it assumed the end 
date of the policy was August 2001, immediately before its records  started.
Mr K is unhappy with the assumptions Lloyds has made. He said he had documents 
showing he was paying the PPI until 2009 and that it was for substantially  more than the 
£23.46 monthly  premium  that Lloyds had used in its calculation.
The mortgage statements provided by Mr K do show an insurance premium of some £75 
being paid as part of his mortgage account  repayments in 2008 and 2009. But Lloyds has 
provided information to show  that this insurance  payment was for his property insurance and 
not PPI. So it appears Mr K may have  been a little confused about  the different types of 
insurance he took out. He would have been  required to have property insurance as a 
condition of his mortgage.
Ref: DRN35377232Mr K has also submitted some  additional documents related  to his mortgage  from around the 
time it was taken out. These include an Anniversary  Notification  dated  March 1991 which 
shows a revised schedule of cover  for his Mortgage  Care  Policy. This is the name  used at 
the time for the PPI, and this document indicates that the premium at the commencement 
date of 1 February  1990 was £17.10 each month for benefit  cover of £342  per month.
Mr K has also provided a copy of a Payments Schedule document dated 24th February 
1990. This shows the payments for his mortgage  over the first five years it was to run. And it 
provides a breakdown of everything  that was included in the monthly mortgage payment 
including the insurance for property and the PPI. 
This Schedule showed that from year 1 to Year 5 the PPI (Mortgage Care Premium) 
increased each  year  as did the monthly mortgage  payment.  In Year 1 the PPI premium 
was £17.10 (as also stated in the anniversary  notification) and by Year 5 the PPI (Mortgage 
Care Premium) was £22.20.
Taking all this information into account  I think  that Mr K paid the amount specified in this 
Schedule each month for PPI for the first five years. And during these years this was less 
than the premium of £23.46 that Lloyds has used in its calculation  for the compensation. 
It is likely  that the premium rose to £23.46  after Year 5 when the mortgage  was probably no 
longer on a fixed interest arrangement basis. And this being  the only PPI premium  amount 
Lloyds was aware of, it has assumed it was constant  throughout the time the PPI was 
running.
I have seen nothing  to show that the PPI monthly  premium ever rose above £23.46  for any 
time it was paid. And I also have seen nothing to show it was still being paid after 2001 when 
Lloyds records start,  and these show no PPI was being paid.
I dont know why or when  the PPI was cancelled  by Mr K. But based  on the evidence 
available I think the assumptions Lloyds has made in its calculations  are very reasonable. 
And the compensation it has offered and paid is possibly slightly  more  than Mr K actually 
paid, taking account of the documents showing the amounts  due for the PPI premium during 
the first five years. 
So I think what Lloyds has offered and paid as compensation to Mr K is fair and I dont think  
any further compensation is due.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out Im satisfied that the offer of compensation paid by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC as compensation  for the mis-sold  PPI policy  Mr K had with his mortgage is 
fair and Im not upholding this complaint that any further compensation is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537723