K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs O say Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. For ease I will refer to the business  as Halifax.  
background
Mr W and Mrs O took out a PPI policy when they applied  for a loan in one of the banks 
branches in 2003.  They  paid a monthly  amount for the policy. Although  the loan was in joint 
names, Mr W was the only person covered by the policy.  So Ive looked  mainly at his 
circumstances when  considering the complaint. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W and Mrs O disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint moved forward  for a decision. In ensuring the case 
was ready  for a decision  Mr W and Mrs O were asked  for some further information. 
Mr W and Mrs Os representatives have acknowledged receiving the information  request but 
at the time of writing we have  not received any further submissions from them. I consider 
that sufficient time has been given for a response had Mr W and Mrs O wished to make one. 
So I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr W and Mrs Os case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr W and Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why below. I know 
Mr W and Mrs O will be disappointed with this but I hope the following explanation will be 
helpful.
I think Halifax made Mr W and Mrs O aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and they chose to take it. Ill explain why I say this. Halifax has provided me with a sample 
loan application  form from the time of sale. Its maybe not surprising that Halifax  has only 
been able to provide me with a sample  application form, as the sale took place so long ago. 
But I think this is reflective  of what Mr W and Mrs O would  have seen.  There  are two 
separate boxes  available for the customer to sign. One says Yes,  I would  like to take 
advantage of the peace of mind  offered  by Personal Loan Repayments Insurance in the 
event that I am unable  to work  due to involuntary unemployment, accident or sickness.  And 
another says No, I do not wish to take advantage of Personal Loan  Repayments Insurance.  
I understand that I will be responsible for making  my repayments  each  month if I am unable  
to work. Each box requires its own signature and Mr W would have had to sign in the Yes 
box to take out PPI. 
Halifax has supplied the actual loan agreement that Mr W and Mrs O signed. On the loan 
agreement theres a yes and a no box indicating whether PPI is required  next to the 
question Do you want  Personal Loan Repayments  Cover? The yes box has a cross in it. 
Although this has been printed on the application, I think  its likely  this was selected  following 
a discussion with the advisor and after Mr W and Mrs O had agreed  to take it for Mr W. I say 
this because all of the individual information  about the loan and policy  including costs,  
interest rates and loan term is also printed on the form. So I think  Halifax  made 
Mr W and Mrs O aware that they had a choice and they chose to take it.
Ref: DRN32635722Halifax said that it recommended  the policy to Mr W and Mrs O, but Mr W and Mrs O have 
said that they dont recall  any advice being given. Because it makes  no difference to the 
outcome of the complaint,  whilst  placing a more  searching test on Halifaxs  sale,  I will 
consider this complaint as if advice was given. This meant Halifax needed to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mr W and Mrs O. Based on what  
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think the recommendation was right for them. I 
explain why below.
Mr W was eligible for the cover, and he doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or limitations  of the policy. Mr W has told us that his sick pay, if any, was 
only modest and that he had no savings to rely on, such that he would have  had to rely on 
family for support in that event or if he lost his job. The PPI policy would have paid out for up 
to 60 months if Mr W was too ill to work and for up to 12 months if Mr W became 
unemployed. So I think the policy could  have been  useful to Mr W and Mrs O. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable.  
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for 
Mr W and Mrs O.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr W and Mrs O, Halifax also had to give them  
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave them was not as clear as it shouldve  been. However, 
for the same reasons  I think the policy was suitable,  Im not persuaded more  information 
wouldve made a difference  to their decision to take out the PPI.
 my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs Os complaint and make  no 
award against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Mrs O 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2019. 
Douglas Sayers                       
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263572