K820x#14complaint
Miss A is unhappy with how ActiveQuote Limited dealt with the renewal of her income 
protection policies.
background
Miss A had income protection policies to protect her salary in the event of redundancy. She 
says that when one of the insurers (Insurer F) stopped offering her cover  ActiveQuote  failed 
to find her a replacement policy. She says that this has left her without the financial  
protection she needed  particularly as she was subsequently  placed  on notice of 
redundancy and later made redundant. 
In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt  intend  to uphold  
Miss As complaint. In summary  I said: 
Miss A had complained that she had been under-insured. I said this wasnt 
something shed  raised as part of her original complaint  to ActiveQuote  and therefore 
shed need to make a complaint to them about  this before our service  could  
investigate her concerns 
I was satisfied that Insurer F had decided to change their underwriting criteria and 
that ActiveQuote hadnt been  involved in communicating  this decision to Miss A.
 
ActiveQuote could  have been  more proactive about contacting another  insurer 
(Insurer L) to confirm  whether they could offer Miss A increased  cover before the 
policy with Insurer F expired
 
I hadnt seen  persuasive evidence that Miss A would have been  able to successfully 
apply for, and claim on, an alternative  policy even if shed been told that she couldnt 
increase her cover with Insurer L before the policy with Insurer  F expired. I said I 
wasnt satisfied that the delay in arranging cover had caused a financial loss in the 
circumstances. I referred to the various  insurers Miss A had contacted  in support of 
her case,  but I didnt  think that they demonstrated  shed have been able to take out a 
policy on the terms she wanted  at the relevant time. 
ActiveQuote accepted my provisional decision.  Miss A and her representative  made further 
representations. In summary  they said: 
I had accepted that there was a duty of care to Miss A and that there had been a 
breach of it. Miss A had provided  sufficient evidence that on the balance of 
probabilities shed have been  able to obtain alternative cover  
My findings encouraged the behaviour of ActiveQuote  who also didnt take Miss A 
seriously when she needed them most 
There was evidence  that some insurers would have offered Miss A cover in her 
circumstances had she transferred  cover  at the relevant time 
ActiveQuote failed  to explain  that Miss A may have  been able to get cover via other 
brokers 
Ref: DRN31459242The points raised about underinsurance  were directly linked to Miss As mis-sale 
complaint and they hoped it was something  I would consider. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A is represented but Ill refer to all submissions as being made by her directly.  
As I set out in my provisional  decision Miss A was receiving advice from ActiveQuote. So, in 
line with the relevant rules and industry  guidelines,  they had a responsibility  to ensure that 
they recommended products that were suitable for her demands and needs.  And they also 
needed to ensure that they provided her with information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Ive considered all of the points and evidence submitted  but Ill focus on those which I 
consider to be central to my decision. The further  representations havent changed my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint and Im not upholding it for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain.  
I think Miss As detailed representations about  under-insurance  over a number of years  are 
separate complaint points to those  which she bought to our service. Her complaint focused 
on what happened at renewal and therefore  ActiveQuote need to consider, and have the 
opportunity to respond to, any concerns about  under-insurance. So, Im not addressing  that 
point within  my final decision. 
 
Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Miss A has demonstrated that its most 
likely shed  have been able to have taken  cover out elsewhere given  her specific 
circumstances at the time she wanted to take out cover.  Miss As further representations 
have focused  on insurers Ill refer to as Insurer P and Insurer X. 
Insurer P
In my provisional decision I referred to Miss As discussions with Insurer  P about whether 
theyd have offered  her cover.  Miss A argued that Insurer P was on ActiveQuotes  panel and 
they theyd confirmed that theyd have offered a policy even though she was on sick leave. 
I said that I didnt know  what the eligibility  criteria for Insurer  P was at that time and its not 
uncommon for the criteria  to vary depending  on the commercial relationships  between  the 
insurer and broker. And I also explained that Id looked at the current  and historic versions of 
the policy terms and conditions which are available online for Insurer  P. They  contained a 
standard initial exclusion, meaning that Miss A couldnt have claimed for unemployment 
within the first 120 days of cover. This includes being advised verbally or in writing  of 
impending unemployment during that period  of time.  So, I thought that if Miss A had taken  
out this type of policy in February 2019, it was unlikely she would have been covered 
because she was given  written notice that she was at risk of redundancy within  the relevant 
timeframe.   
Miss A provided further evidence from Insurer P in response to my provisional decision 
which said: 
Ref: DRN31459243In January 2019 [Insurer P] was still selling unemployment cover,  so based on the 
declaration questions being  answer (sic) to confirm eligibility we would have 
transferred cover and waived the initial exclusion period
But this isnt confirmation that, on the balance of probabilities, Insurer  P would have  offered 
cover to Miss A in her circumstances. As the email says Miss A would have still been 
required to confirm eligibility and, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I havent  seen 
sufficient evidence to confirm what that criteria was and whether Miss A would have met it. A 
further email also says that the transfer would need  to be from comparable  cover otherwise 
the initial exclusion period would remain in place. So, this evidence isnt sufficient to 
persuade me its most likely that Insurer P would have offered Miss A a policy  and honoured 
any subsequent  claim.  
Insurer X 
In my provisional decision I said: 
A broker for Insurer X confirmed that theyd have offered Miss A a policy even though  
she was on sick leave.  Theres an excess period of 60 days  and an initial  exclusion 
period of 90 days. Miss A says shes had confirmation that theyd waive the initial  
excess period of 90 days. But thats  not what the email from the broker  says. It 
clearly refers to an initial  exclusion period  of 90 days. So, this doesnt persuade me a 
policy would have been offered to Miss A on the terms shes  mentioned.  If Miss A 
had chosen to take this policy out in January or February 2019 I think  shes  likely to 
have fallen within the 90 days exclusion period as she was placed  on notice of the 
risk of redundancy  in [redacted]
Having reviewed the evidence again, and the further  evidence Miss A has submitted,  I think 
its most  likely that the above information  related to a Mortgage Payment Protection  Policy 
(MPPI) Miss A enquired about.  
Miss A has provided us with various email exchanges and documentation.  Theres  an email 
from a broker which Miss A submitted in January 2020 which sets out the information I 
referred to in my provisional decision above (which  includes the details of the 60 day excess, 
minimum claim period of 30 days and the initial exclusion period of 90 days).  It doesnt say 
that the policy is an MPPI policy. 
Miss A later provided a more detailed  exchange  of emails in which  the broker confirmed that 
they could offer cover if Miss A was named on a rental agreement for the property as they 
could insure the monthly rental  payment. This email chain clarifies  that this was relation to 
an MPPI policy which would protect  a portion  of the £3000 per month  rent Miss A told us she 
paid.  
In response to my provisional decision Miss A provided a further  email  from the broker  
saying that they would have waived the initial exclusion period on the above policy. Miss A 
argues, in summary, this demonstrates  that shed have been able to take out cover which 
would have protected her. 
I dont agree this means her complaint should  be upheld.  The email  from Insurer  Fs policy  
administrator confirms that her policy with Insurer F was an income  protection insurance 
policy. The policy  being  offered by Insurer X, based  on the evidence  Ive been  presented  
with, is most likely to be an MPPI  policy. 
Ref: DRN31459244An MPPI policy is a different financial product  to an income protection policy.  MPPI  provides 
cover in the event  of unemployment or sickness so that the policyholder can make their 
mortgage (or in Miss As case rental) payments. But thats not the same  type of policy  
Miss A had with Insurer F. That was an income  protection policy which  protected  her salary 
and which  shed have  been free to use how she wanted to. The insured loss is different and 
the two products operate in different ways. So, I dont think this demonstrates  that Miss A 
would have been able to take out an income protection policy with Insurer  X on the terms 
shes mentioned. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2021.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3145924