K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr N says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds),  trading  as Cheltenham  & Gloucester, mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide paperwork from the time of the sale to show how the PPI 
might have been presented to Mr N. That isnt surprising given how long ago the sale was. 
Mr N says Lloyds added  the PPI to his mortgage  agreement without asking him. And then 
told him he had to have  the PPI to get the mortgage.  But given the time that has passed, I 
wouldnt expect Mr Ns recollections of the sale to be vivid or detailed. With that in mind, on 
their own Mr Ns recollections  arent  enough to make me think Lloyds  misled  him or told him 
he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage.  And I havent seen anything else to make me 
think that this is most likely what Lloyds did at that time. 
Taking everything into account,  what I have isnt enough to make me think  Lloyds didnt  give 
Mr N a choice about the PPI  but I acknowledge that this isnt how he recalls the sale. Also I 
havent anything  that makes  me think the PPI was added without Mr Ns agreement.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr N, so it had to do more and check  the PPI was right for 
him. And I think it was right for him, based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. For example Mr N wasnt affected  by any of the limits  to or exclusions on the cover   
like exclusions  for existing  health  problems. And Mr N was entitled to only statutory pay if he 
were made redundant or too sick to work. And hes told us he didnt have any savings or 
anything else to fall back on at the time. So I think he had a need for the cover.
Mr N has said when he tried to claim  on the cover he was told he had to be out of work for 
six months. But from what Ive seen of the policy terms at the time Mr N took the cover, the 
first two months  of sickness or unemployment  wasnt covered but benefit would start after 
that and be paid every 30 days. Ive also thought about what Mr N has said about how he 
could have financial problems before  he could  receive the benefit. But taking into account 
what Ive said above, and bearing in mind that once it began  the benefit  could pay for up to a 
year, what  Mr N has said about this doesnt  make me think  the PPI was unsuitable for him.
Mr N has said the PPI cost £80 per month. This estimate assumes he paid a certain monthly 
amount for his mortgage,  of which  some  was mortgage costs and the rest was the PPI. The 
mortgage cost figure in the calculation is based on the providers mortgage  rates  at the time. 
The total cost figure  in the calculation was given  to Mr N over the phone  by Lloyds in 2018.  I 
dont know if that total cost figure  is right. But even if it is, I dont think  it follows  that the 
difference between  the two figures  must  be the cost of the PPI. I say this taking into account 
that £80 is far more  than Id expect PPI cover of £260 to have cost. So Id need strong 
persuasive evidence  to make me think that the rate Mr N was paying was of that kind. What  
Ref: DRN31249982Mr N has said doesnt persuade me that the cost was that high. With that in mind, Im not 
persuaded that the cost of the PPI made  it unsuitable for Mr N.
Mr N says he wasnt given any information  about the cover.  I dont know what he was given 
or what he was told. So its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr N about  the PPI wasnt 
as clear or as full as it shouldve been.  But, for the reasons Ive given  above   in particular 
what Ive said about Mr Ns lack of other means  and his limited work sick pay entitlement - it 
looks like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr N if something went wrong. And, based on 
what I have, I cant  say Mr N didnt choose to take it. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr N off the cover.
Im grateful  to Mr N for all his responses. Ive thought about all his points, including what  hes 
said about only agreeing to the PPI under protest and feeling Lloyds took advantage of him 
as a first time buyer. But there isnt enough to make me think Lloyds pressured Mr N into the 
cover. And although Lloyds gave Mr N a wrong  answer about whether  hed taken the cover, I 
dont think this changes  what  Ive said above about his circumstances and the information 
we do  and dont  have  about what happened  at the sale.  Having thought carefully about 
all these points, in the light of all Ive said above these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3124998