K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complained because  Tesco Personal  Finance PLC refused to reimburse him for a 
number of credit card transactions which he said he hadnt authorised.
Background
On 12 February 2018, Mr S reported his credit  card lost, using his mobile  app. At the same 
time he requested  an increase in his credit limit, and a transfer of £200 to another  account. 
Tesco cancelled his existing  card and ordered  a new card for him. Its normal timescale for 
customers to receive a new card was 5 to 7 working days.
Between 21 February and 26 February, there were six cash  machine withdrawals using Mr 
Ss credit card, authenticated by his PIN. Tescos records show Mr S hadnt requested a new 
PIN on 12 February, and the PIN used was the one hed had before.
The withdrawals were  all made in the middle  of the day, and at the same  supermarket, which  
was within  10 miles of Mr Ss home.  Two of the withdrawals had been  preceded  by declined 
attempts for higher amounts which  would  have been above Mr Ss daily limit.
On 26 February, Mr S rang Tesco and said he hadnt received the card hed ordered on 12 
February. He said he didnt know about the transactions, and that he hadnt told anyone his 
PIN, and hadnt written  it down. He complained.
Tesco sent Mr S a new card, and a new PIN. It investigated. In its final response, Tesco  said 
that its Fraud Department had found  that the card used to make the withdrawals had been 
the one sent out on 12 February. But all the transactions  had been authenticated  using Mr 
Ss PIN number. This hadnt  changed  when Mr S had asked for a new card on 12 February. 
So Tesco said it was unsure how Mr Ss PIN had become known  to someone else.  It refused 
to reimburse Mr S for the £1,800 of disputed  transactions.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. He explained that hed never  received 
the replacement  card from the 12 February  call. So he thought  it had been  intercepted  in the 
post. Mr S said Tesco had issued a new PIN as well as a new card. He said he hadnt given 
anyone his PIN or details, and he didnt have  a shared letterbox. Mr S said hed never make 
cash withdrawals on a credit card. He lived alone  and wouldnt have told anyone what his 
PIN was. Mr S explained  that the worry was affecting his health.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. He told Mr S that Tesco had provided 
electronic information  which showed what method  of payment was used,  and gave more  
detailed information  about whether or not the cards chip was read on each transaction. 
Tescos information showed that a new card  without a PIN - was requested  and issued on 
12 February, but a new card and new PIN on 26 February.  The investigator didnt accept Mr 
Ss statement that hed ordered a new PIN as well as a new card on 12 February. Looking at 
all the circumstances,  the investigator  concluded  that the disputed transactions had been 
made by reading  the replacement cards chip, and had been authorised by the PIN which Mr 
S had had before 12 February. The investigator believed that the most likely scenario was 
that Mr S received the card, and authorised the transactions himself.
Mr S strongly disagreed. He said hed never shared or made available  his personal  details or 
PIN. He said the withdrawals hadnt been in line with the way hed previously used the card, 
so Tesco  should  have flagged this to him. He suggested we should ask Tesco  for call 
Ref: DRN36869052recordings because he said Tesco had told him it had issued  a new PIN after the 12 
February request.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for Mr Ss complaint  are the Payment Services  Regulations 2017. 
These set out that the payment service  user (Mr S) is liable for transactions that were 
authorised, and Tesco for transactions  that werent authorised. So the issue for me to 
determine is whether  or not Mr S authorised the transactions.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive concluded that the transactions were authorised, 
because:
-The records show that no new PIN was issued on 12 February. The transactions  
were authenticated by the replacement card which had been issued on 12 February, 
and the PIN which Mr S had before 12 February.  So the transactions  were 
authenticated by someone who had the new card and knew the existing PIN. I 
consider the fact that the existing  PIN was used, means that Mr Ss argument is less 
persuasive.
-Mr S said he lived alone, and hadnt let anyone know his PIN or have access  to his 
card. So it doesnt seem  feasible that hed accidentally let this information be used  by 
anyone else who might have  fraudulently  used  his card and PIN.
-I recognise that Mr S said he did ask for a new PIN on 12 February, and he wants  
this service to ask for the phone  recordings. But even if Mr S had asked for a new 
PIN as well as a new card, Tesco didnt issue a new PIN on 12 February,  so the old 
PIN was still valid and this was what was used to authenticate the disputed 
transactions.
-Tescos cards were sent out to reach consumers within 5 to 7 working days, and I 
consider its more likely  than not that the bank told all customers this when it was 
issuing a new card. But Mr S didnt ask Tesco where his new card was until 26 
February. I consider  its surprising  he didnt chase it earlier, if he hadnt received it.
-I considered whether  someone might  have seen Mr S enter his PIN during a previous 
transaction. But the last transaction before the disputed ones hadnt used a PIN. I 
dont have evidence  about when Mr S last authorised a transaction with a PIN, but it 
would have been some time before, and fraudsters  tend to use such  information very 
quickly.
-After Mr S got in touch  with Tesco on 26 February, there  werent any more attempts 
to make withdrawals on the card. It would  be very unusual for a fraudster to stop 
trying to use the card, as fraudsters  would want to steal as much  as they could.
-I note that Mr S has said Tesco should  have flagged  the fact that the withdrawals 
werent in line with the way hed previously used the card.  I can understand why hed 
say this. But the bank would have  less cause for suspicion when transactions  had 
been authenticated by a card theyd  just sent out, with a correctly-entered  PIN which  
Ref: DRN36869053Mr S had for some time. So I dont find that Tesco should have flagged the later 
transactions and asked  Mr S if they were  genuine.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely  than not that Mr S authorised  
the transactions, and I dont require Tesco to reimburse  them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3686905