K822xcomplaint
Mr B and Miss S complain that Total Mortgage Network Limited (TMN) mis-sold them a 
mortgage and didnt provide a proper service  to them for the fee charged.  Mr B and Miss S 
would like compensation and 50% of the brokers  fee returned. 
background 
Mr B and Miss S took out a mortgage through  TMN.  But they didnt realise that the mortgage 
was for 15 years which takes  Mr B past his retirement age. They say that TMN  only told 
them how much the mortgage payments would be and not how long it would take to pay off. 
Mr B and Miss S say that they paid TMN a fee which they thought was excessive. TMN told 
them it was to include a further consultation after their initial two year mortgage  product 
expired. But two years later TMN  didnt  contact them and Mr B and Miss S sourced a 
mortgage from another lender.
TMN says that the amount of its fees was made clear to Mr B and Miss S so that they should 
have been fully aware of it and what it was for. It also says that the term of the mortgage 
running into Mr Bs retirement  was set out in the suitability letter.  TMN accepts that it could  
have done more to contact Mr B and Miss S as their initial fixed rate product came to an end 
and offered compensation of £200.  Our adjudicator  didnt recommend that this complaint  
should be upheld  as he felt that TMN  had made  a fair offer.  Mr B and Miss S disagree and 
believe that compensation of £500  would be fairer.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Miss S paid a fee to TMN and dont believe they got the service they would have 
expected to get for that fee. There are a number of issues.  Firstly that the mortgage  term will 
run into Mr Bs retirement.  I know that Mr B is disappointed that this is going to happen. But 
there is nothing wrong with the broker recommending that if its suitable for the client and the 
client is aware of it. I note that in this case the term was considered  suitable so that Mr B and 
Miss S would benefit from lower monthly payments  than if the mortgage term was shorter.  
As this was set out in the suitability letter, I cant say that for this part of the complaint that 
TMN has done anything  wrong.
When the fixed rate mortgage product came to an end Mr B and Miss Ss lender  contacted  
them to let them know. TMN didnt contact  them  and on their own initiative  they sourced a 
mortgage from another lender. Having  done that, they feel that TMN  should  return part of its 
fee. TMNs fee was partly to arrange  any further  mortgages for you in the future . So, TMN  
was committing itself to provide  a service if Mr B and Miss S wanted to use it and charged 
Mr B and Miss S a fee for that commitment. That remains the position. Mr B and Miss S 
dont have to use TMN  but as long it remains committed  to providing that service I cant fairly 
say that TMN has done anything wrong  which would entitle Mr B and Miss S to get a refund 
of the fee. 
Ref: DRN35735802Both TMN  and Mr B and Miss S believe that as part of the service TMN should have 
contacted them before the fixed rate product expired. But Mr B and Miss Ss lender  had 
already contacted them so they didnt lose out financially by TMN ailing  to do so. Mr B and 
Miss S chose not to use TMN at that stage but I dont believe that that entitles them to their 
money back and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I do believe that the £200 offered by 
TMN for its failure to contact them  represents  reasonable  compensation. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint but approve  the suggested settlement 
offered by Total Mortgage Network Limited  of £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3573580