K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from Barclays Bank  UK PLC in connection 
with a promotional  offer it was running.  
background 
Barclays runs a Blue Rewards scheme. Under  the scheme, eligible customers can get 
monthly cash rewards when they have certain products and services with Barclays.
In late 2018, Barclays  was offering double rewards for 12 months  if customers completed a 
full switch of their current account to it, subject to some other eligibility criteria. Mr M wanted  
to take advantage of this, so he applied to switch his account  with another  bank. He 
complained that he then didnt receive  the double rewards. He said bank staff had told him 
he would  qualify, and he wouldnt have  gone ahead with the switch  otherwise.
Barclays said Mr M wasnt eligible for double rewards, because  he had switched his account  
too late, outside the promotional period. It accepted it had initially given him the wrong 
reason for why he wasnt eligible,  and it apologised for that. It also offered him £35 by way of 
compensation.
Our investigator thought Barclays hadnt told Mr M when the application cut-off date was, 
and it was understandable that he had gone  ahead with the switch if he had been told he 
would get the offer. She recommended that Barclays  pay Mr M the double  rewards.  She also 
said the £35 it had offered for Mr Ms inconvenience was fair. 
Mr M agreed  he should get the double rewards. But he didnt think Barclays  offer of 
compensation went far enough to reflect the inconvenience and stress hed been  caused. He 
suggested £100 would be more appropriate  and would incentivise Barclays  to provide better 
service.
Barclays said Mr M had in fact received double rewards since December 2018  so he 
hadnt missed out on the offer. It told us it was sorry about the confusion  and the wrong 
information it had given. But it thought Mr M knew hed been getting  the cash rewards as 
hed been transferring the money  out of his account.  It said Mr M hadnt  lost out, and it 
wasnt prepared to increase its offer of compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think its clear  that Barclays service has fallen short  here and it has caused  unnecessary  
confusion. Theres  no dispute that it gave Mr M wrong information, both directly and through 
our investigator. Nevertheless, Mr M hasnt lost out. He has received the double  cash 
rewards he wanted.
So the only remaining  matter for me to decide is compensation. The awards  this service 
makes are not fines or punishments; were not the regulator. In deciding  a fair outcome here, 
I have to consider  the impact of what  went wrong  on Mr M.
Ref: DRN34445112I can see that Mr M was put to some inconvenience  and caused frustration because  
Barclays didnt get things right. That could have been avoided  but, in all the circumstances,  I 
think the offer Barclays has made of £35 is reasonable to reflect that. Having carefully 
considered what  Mr M has said, I dont find grounds on which  I might  fairly require Barclays 
to pay the £100 he wants  so I make no order or award.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays has made  a fair offer of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3444511