K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) unfairly avoided  (treating  as if it never 
existed) his home insurance policy, on the basis that he hadnt declared a spent conviction  
from many  years ago. 
background
Mr R took out a new home insurance policy in January 2017 through  a broker. His policy  
was provided by Zurich.  When setting  up the policy, the broker  asked Mr R a number of 
questions; including whether hed had insurance declined,  refused or cancelled and whether 
he had any unspent convictions. Mr R responded no to both questions. (Mr R had served a 
custodial sentence of more than four years a number of years earlier).  Mr R also said he was 
challenging a previous insurers refusal  to settle a claim through legal  channels.  The broker 
passed all of this information to Zurich.  
Zurich cancelled Mr Rs policy in May, as he hadnt  paid his premiums. Mr R spoke to the 
broker in June to ask about setting  up a new policy. Again, Mr R answered  no to previous 
convictions and whether  hed previously had insurance cancelled  or declined. Based on the 
information that Mr R gave, Zurich set up a new policy. 
During 2018 Mr R made three claims under this policy (one of which was later withdrawn). 
The last of the claims was in May.  
Zurich investigated  Mr Rs claim and found inconsistencies in the account that he gave. 
It also found out that Mr R hadnt given the right information when taking out his policy. 
In light of that, Zurich  avoided  Mr Rs policy from the beginning. 
Mr R complained to Zurich and it sent him its final response in January 2019. It also gave 
Mr R a written  decision  about the key factors  it had considered when avoiding his policy. 
These included:
Mr Rs failure  to disclose that hed had insurance  avoided  by a different insurer  and 
his refusal to allow Zurich  to ask his previous insurers for information;
Mr Rs failure  to disclose convictions. 
Mr R complained to us in April 2019, as he wasnt happy with Zurichs response. 
An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint  and, after taking account of various points that 
he made, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator felt that Zurich  was 
entitled to cancel the policy because  Mr R hadnt given the right information. As Mr R didnt 
agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr R said when he brought his complaint to us. But I dont agree that 
Zurichs decision  to avoid his policy was solely  related  to the fact that he hadnt declared  his 
Ref: DRN36241202convictions. I can see from the evidence that Zurich took account  of other factors, including  
Mr Rs failure  to declare  that hed had insurance  avoided previously.
Ive considered whether Zurichs decision  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
When taking out the policy,  Mr R had a responsibility under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is made  when insurers suggest  a customer  gives  the 
wrong information or its incomplete. And the same  responsibility applies to anyone acting for 
Mr R, including the broker who he arranged the policy through. Thats because the insurer  
expects to be given  the right information, so that it can properly  assess the risk.
When considering  the question  of reasonable care, the insurer  will think about things such 
as how clear the questions asked were.  And for Zurich to take any action at all, it needs to 
show that there hasnt  been reasonable care and that theres been a qualifying  
misrepresentation as a result. A qualifying misrepresentation means that it would have made 
a difference to whether  the insurer offered the policy, or it might have offered the policy,  but 
on different terms.  
Mr R says he told the broker  he was challenging his previous insurers  refusal to settle a 
claim. And whilst I dont dispute that from what Ive heard from the call recordings, thats not 
the same  as telling an insurer  that a previous policy had been avoided.  In any event,  that 
discussion happened whilst setting up his previous policy in January 2017.  And that policy 
was cancelled because  Mr R didnt  keep up with his payments. 
So, Im satisfied that its the information Mr R gave before taking  out the June policy  that 
really matters here. And thats because  it was that policy under which  Mr R went on to make  
a claim.  And Ive heard  from the call recordings that Mr R answered no when asked if hed 
ever had insurance declined or cancelled. 
But thats not right. Im aware that his previous  insurer avoided a policy  on the basis  that he 
hadnt declared a conviction. Ive seen a copy of a letter to Mr R from his previous insurer,  
which the insurer has since passed on to Zurich. And whilst the version Ive seen is undated 
and doesnt include  Mr Rs address, as it came  from Mr Rs previous insurer to Zurich,  I have  
no reason to doubt its authenticity. And it clearly states the reasons why Mr Rs policy was 
avoided. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr R knew his previous insurance had been 
avoided. And, given that, there was an onus  on him to provide the right information  to Zurich. 
And, it was reasonable for Zurich to take account of his failure  to do so. 
It seems  to me that the situation in relation to Mr Rs conviction isnt necessarily as 
straightforward. Mr R is adamant that he doesnt have a conviction  because it was spent and 
says that hes discussed  this with the broker. And I can hear from the call recordings that 
before taking out his January policy, Mr R appears  to have thought  about  how to answer  the 
question before saying no to unspent convictions. And the fact that he discussed his 
conviction with the broker does in itself suggest that he wasnt  necessarily  trying  to hide the 
existence of it. So, I can appreciate Mr Rs point to some extent. But when it came to the 
June policy, Mr R simply answered no to whether he had any convictions. And it was this 
information that Zurich was entitled to rely on when deciding to offer him the policy. 
Mr R doesnt think hes done anything wrong  in the way that he answered this question.  
But he served a custodial sentence of more than four years. And, according  to the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, convictions leading to custodial sentences of more 
than four years are never spent and would always need to be disclosed.
Ref: DRN36241203Its not clear exactly what Mr R recalled about his conviction given the age of it and whether 
he should definitely have known that it would never be spent. But I do think there was an 
onus on Mr R to take reasonable care to check that the information he provided was right. 
And, if he wasnt sure about  whether his conviction was spent, he should have checked. 
In any event, even  without its concerns relating to Mr Rs convictions, Zurich is likely to have 
come to the same decision about Mr Rs policy on the basis  of the avoided  policy through 
another insurer. And Zurich said that had it known these things from the beginning, it 
wouldnt have insured Mr R. Zurichs  decision is also supported by its acceptance criteria. 
Having carefully considered what happened,  I cant  say that Zurichs decision to avoid 
Mr Rs policy  on the basis of qualifying  misrepresentations  was unreasonable.  Nor do I think 
it was unreasonable for Zurich to hold onto Mr Rs premiums.  In light of all this, I dont uphold  
Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept my 
decision by 19 March  2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3624120