K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  caused  delay  when dealing  
with a theft claim he made under his car insurance  policy. Hes also unhappy that Admiral  
rejected his claim. Mr H is representing Mr S in his complaint. 
background
Mr S bought a van insurance policy with Admiral. Mr A is a named driver and was in charge 
of the van when the theft happened  in August 2018. 
Mr S reported the theft to Admiral.  In September 2018 Mr S complained to Admiral about  the 
time it was taking to investigate the claim. He wanted it to pay a settlement equivalent to the 
value for the stolen  van and pay interest  from 1 August 2018. 
Admiral said it hadnt  caused  delay in dealing with the claim. Mr H on behalf of Mr S brought 
the complaint  to us. 
In December 2018 Admiral rejected the claim because the police report said Mr A had left 
the keys of the van in the front seat. This was inconsistent with accounts  Mr S and Mr A had 
given. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted  reasonably. Mr H didnt agree. In summary he 
says its unfair that the decision to reject the claim hinges on what  Mr H told the police. He 
believes Admiral caused delay in obtaining  the police report  because it had Mr Hs authority 
to do this from the outset   but asked for Mr Ss authority which  wasnt  necessary. 
Mr H believes  we havent been impartial. Mr H said he reported the theft of the van. He 
believes the police should have come  out and took a statement from Mr A. Mr H said he 
didnt have the full facts  when he reported the theft to the police. 
He said Admiral caused delay in providing a hire vehicle.  Mr H wants an ombudsman  to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that being involved in the theft of a vehicle has been upsetting and inconvenient  
to deal with. Our role is to look at whether the insurer dealt with the claim reasonably  and in 
line with the terms  of the policy.
The terms Admiral applied say the following:
General Condition 3: Care of your Vehicle:
You or any person covered by the policy must:
 protect your vehicle  from loss or damage
 make sure your vehicle  is roadworthy
 allow  us to inspect your vehicle at any reasonable time we ask
 remove  the keys or secure any device that allows access to your vehicle; if it is left
unoccupied.
Ref: DRN35663972Admiral will not provide cover:
If an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect  
your vehicle from loss or damage through:
 the inappropriate  conduct  of the driver: or
 the condition of the vehicle, caused or contributed to the accident: or
 your vehicle  being left unlocked or unsecured.
I think Admiral  clearly  set out its exclusions.  
There are inconsistencies  with the information Admiral received. Mr S  the policyholder  
told Admiral that he reported  the theft to the police. So Admiral  provided Mr Ss authority 
when it requested the police report. But the police told Admiral Mr S wasnt the person who 
had reported the theft.  So Admiral obtained  Mr Hs details and was then able to obtain a 
copy of the police report. 
I can understand why Admiral provided  Mr Ss authority when it asked the police for its crime 
reference report. It relied on what Mr S initially told it. I therefore cant say Admiral caused 
undue delay  even if it had Mr Hs signature  when  the complaint was first raised with 
Admiral. I think  it acted  reasonably as it relied  on Mr Ss account that he reported the theft to 
the police. 
In the first call Mr S described the theft as being there with Mr A when it happened.  It was 
Mr S who said in this call that he believed he may have been pickpocketed. And he told 
Admiral he called the police to report the theft.  This was inconsistent  with an account Mr A 
gave on the phone in a later call and from his written statement. 
During a second  call on the same  day, Mr S again said that he was in the back  of the van 
and that he believed he had been pickpocketed. He said it was his wallet  and phone that 
was in the van when it was stolen.  But later Mr A said that he was with the van when  it was 
stolen, it was his phone and wallet in the van  and he then called Mr S from the shop he 
was delivering  to  and it was Mr S who called the police. 
In a third call provided by Admiral, Mr A gave his account. He said he arrived at the shop to 
unload items. He locked  the front cabin of the van and opened  the back  of the van to unload 
items. He said it wasnt possible to see the front cabin of the van from the back where  he 
was standing due to a panel.  Mr A said he was standing at the back  of the van when he 
heard the engine start and within seconds the thief drove the van away.  Mr A ran after it but 
it was too late. 
Mr A said he believed  he had the key with him at all times and the only explanation could be 
that he was either pick pocketed or the keys fell out of his pocket while unloading the van. 
However, Mr A couldnt recall being  in contact  with anyone close  enough to have 
pickpocketed the keys from him. All of these calls took place at the beginning of August 
2018. 
Mr A provided a written  statement in September 2018. He said when the theft happened; he 
went into the shop  and called Mr S. He said Mr S reported the theft to the police. Mr A also 
called Mr H. 
Ref: DRN35663973Admiral received the police report in November 2018. The report was noted a few minutes  
after Mr H reported the theft  which was approximately  20 minutes after it happened. 
The report  said;
(Mr H) says his van keys were on the front seat of his van whilst he was at the back.
(Mr H) says suddenly someone  got into his van and started driving off whilst he was 
still standing at the back of the van with the doors  open.
(Mr H) says the offender drove off and he was unable to take any description of the 
person as the incident happened unexpectedly and very quickly.
Mr H told our investigator that he couldnt be sure that the keys were in the front seat. He 
called the police as he was trying  to help. Mr H doesnt think  its fair that Admiral has used  
what he told the police  and he cant remember exactly what he said at the time  to reject 
the claim.
But based  on the information  available to Admiral I think it reasonably applied its exclusion. 
Mr H reported that the keys were left in the front seat when the theft happened. So the van 
wasnt locked and secure. I think it was reasonable for Admiral to give more  weight to the 
police report as its an independent account  and the first account given immediately after 
the theft. 
I realise Mr H and Mr S will be disappointed  with my decision. But I think  Admirals decision  
to reject Mr Ss claim was reached fairly  and in line with the policy.  
Mr H said Admiral caused a delay in providing  a hire vehicle. This wasnt  a complaint Mr S 
brought to us  or one that I can see Admiral  has had the opportunity  to reply to. Mr S is free 
to make a new complaint  about this issue to Admiral if he wishes.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3566397