K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the transfer  of their investment  portfolio  by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to another business in 2018. They say that this took too long.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 4 August 2020. A copy  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I explained that I was intending to uphold  the 
complaint in part  with respect to the transfer  of some of the holdings  in Mrs Hs ISA.
Mr and Mrs H accepted  the provisional decision and did not make any further submissions. 
Barclays replied and said that it had made an error  in saying that the holdings were held in 
an ISA  they were  actually held in the discretionary  portfolio.  It then said that it had not 
caused any delays  in the transfer of holdings in the ISA.  
Barclays was asked  to confirm whether the stocks  listed in my provisional  decision under 
Isa Accounts were  actually held in the discretionary portfolio and to provide any further  
information to confirm the transfer of those  holdings was not delayed.  
Barclays did not answer directly the first question but provided some information about  the 
transfer of funds from the discretionary portfolio.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the main my provisional decision was that Barclays had processed the transfers in a 
reasonable amount of time. But I did have concerns taken to process transfers  of several  
funds which  were originally described as being  held within Mrs Hs ISA  now said to be held 
with the discretionary  portfolio.  
The wrapper (ISA or discretionary portfolio) in which  the stocks  or funds were held is not 
the material issue, the issue is when the holdings were transferred
Barclays has said provided some  explanation  for the delay in the transfer of two funds  
Findlay Park (which it has said was finally transferred  on 31 July 2018), and an AXA fund  
which it has said was still outstanding on 25 June 2018. I appreciate it has provided  some 
further information  largely in the form of transfer  forms, and some  correspondence  from 
other fund managers.  However I remain of the view that there is insufficient explanation or 
justification for the delays in the funds I considered in the provisional decision. For example it 
appears the AXA stock  transfer form was dated but it is unclear why this was or whether this 
should have been checked  by Barclays. I therefore remain  of the view that Mr and Mrs H are 
entitled to the £400  award I outlined  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint but only in relation to the delays of the transfer of some of the 
holdings  as discussed in my provisional decision. I award £400 to Mr and Mrs H for the 
inconvenience and upset caused.  
Ref: DRN37569872I do not uphold  the complaint in any other respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 October  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37569873copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the transfer of their investment portfolio by Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
another business (which I will call FIRM A) in 2018. They  say that this took too long. 
background
Mr and Mrs H say that they requested the transfer  in January 2018, but it was not completed until 
August 2018.  
Barclays has said that the transfer of Mr and Mrs Hs investments was completed  within a reasonable 
amount of time given that many investments had to be transferred and various different parties  were 
involved. 
Barclays offered £250 for the delay in responding  to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H did not accept that Barclays had justified the delay and suggested it had caused delays 
in the process. 
Mr and Mrs H referred  their complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. She 
wasnt persuaded that, bearing in mind the evidence  Barclays had supplied, it had substantiated that 
it wasnt responsible  for the delays. She recommended that Barclays  put this right. 
Barclays didnt agree  and said that most of the holdings  had been transferred within a reasonable 
period of time. Some had not, but that was because of the need  to deal with several third parties  to 
enable the transfers. 
A second investigator reviewed the issue but wasnt  persuaded that Barclays had justified the delay. 
Barclays remained of the view that it had acted reasonably so the complaint was passed to me for 
review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the complaint  relates to the following investment plans or facilities:
Joint Discretionary Portfolio
Canada Life Offshore Bond  Mr H 
SIPP   Mr H
ISA  Mr and Mrs H  
Execution only portfolio   Mr H 
My understanding is that Mr and Mrs H requested the transfer in January 2018  I have seen a letter 
to Barclays from Mr and Mrs H dated 18 January  2018 which gave that authority and directed 
Barclays to emailed instructions. Barclays said it received this letter  on 1 February  2018.  Barclays 
says that this was passed  to its transfer team on the same day, awaiting a formal request for transfer 
from FIRM A. Barclays says that it didnt  have all the information from FIRM A until March  2018 to 
start the transfers.
Ref: DRN37569874Barclays says it aims to complete transfers within a 36 working day period. This is not an 
unreasonable timescale in my view.  I think it should  be borne  in mind that there were several different 
plans and many different investments - and consequently varying documentation  and authorities 
required. So some transfers required a longer period  than others  and some  holdings couldnt  be 
transferred  in their (then)  current  format. So it is not as clear as saying that Barclays transfer  process  
started for all plans on a given date. 
Discretionary Portfolio
I have seen a letter dated 21 February 2018 from FIRM A to Barclays which refers to the 
Discretionary Portfolio. It is on this date that Barclays says it received an email instruction from FIRM 
A as to transferring  the Discretionary Portfolio. The letter asks for information from Barclays such  as 
current valuation of holdings  and account number for each position  so that the transfer can take 
place. It is mentioned that letters of authority would  be sent for the remaining  assets by FIRM  A in 
due course.  
Barclays has supplied  a Statement of Account for the Discretionary Portfolio dated  23 February  2018 
listing the assets  held within the portfolio and their value. Barclays sent this to FIRM  A on 26 February 
2018. 
Barclays has provided  a timeline which does  provide  background  as to why a significant amount of 
time was required for transfer:
1 March  - Executed  Charge  over Assets  (CoA)  and passed  to (FIRM  A) for approval. Redemption 
date set for 9 March
 5 March - Letter  of Undertaking (LOU). CoA. and portfolio valuation sent to (FIRM A).
 6 March - Call to (FIRM A) advising that the letters received requesting the transfer of the portfolio 
needed to include  reference numbers  for the investments held and whether the transfer should be 
made in-specie or liquidated.
 7 March - Email to (FIRM A) confirming various assets held in our book and reference  numbers for 
each investment. Soft letters  sent to (FIRM A) by email  with hard copies to be placed in the post
 12 March - Redemption  funds received from (FIRM A) to clear outstanding portfolio finance. Closure 
of portfolio finance facility  commenced in addition to release of security
12 March  - Email sent to (FIRM A) confirming receipt of funds and that our transfer team have  started  
the process of transferring the joint portfolio to their book. A request was also made for (FIRM  As) 
bank account details which needed to be on their letter head
 12 March - Letter confirming  (FIRM As) Bank details received by email.  Hard  copy  sent in post
 15 March - Call made  to Mr (H) to authorise payment of the cash  element  of the Joint  discretionary 
portfolio to (FIRM A) unfortunate we were not successful in contacting him. This was followed up by 
email
 16 March - Further attempt to contact Mr (H) by telephone to authorise payment
 16 March - Update provided to (FIRM A) re transfer of funds/stock for the Joint discretionary portfolio
 19 March - Further attempt to contact Mr (H) by telephone to authorise payment.  Failed identification 
process
 19 March - Dispensation  obtained to remit funds  to (FIRM A). Email sent to Mr (H) to confirm that 
payment will be made without the need to speak  to him again
Ref: DRN37569875 21 March - Confirmed that cash element from the joint discretionary portfolio received by FIRM A. 
Stock being transferred following in-specie process
 26 March - Email from (FIRM A) querying progress  on the transfer of stocks from the Joint  
discretionary portfolio
 26 March - Email to (FIRM A) confirming that our transfer  team are working directly with FIRM  A's 
transfer team
 27 March - Chaser email sent by (FIRM A) re the transfer  of stocks held within  the portfolio
 29 March - Email to (FIRM A) confirming that our transfer  team continue  to work  with (FIRM  A). As 
there are numerous stocks the counterparty has to provide agreement for each.  Once achieved.  the 
trades can then be inputted. The process was well underway with agreement obtained  for the majority 
of stocks held.  It was also advised that in future queries should be directed  towards (FIRM A's) 
transfer team.
 4 April - Email to (FIRM A) confirming our contact in the (FIRM A) transfer team  had been fully 
briefed on proceedings and an explanation provided in relation to the delay in transfer. Moreover we 
were now waiting for a response/confirmation  to proceed from (FIRM A)
 9 April - Confirmation from (FIRM A) that a number of stocks have been received
 12 April - Further email to (FIRM A) providing  update on the transfer of stock
 23 May - Further  email  update provide  to (FIRM A) with an update on the taxable Joint discretionary 
portfolio where two funds remained outstanding and that we continue to liaise  with the Fund 
managers in question
 14 June  - Email from Mr (H) requesting  update  on overall transfer status. Unsuccessful attempt  to 
contact him by phone so followed up email
 17 June  - Email from Mr (H) questioning  the progress  of the transfer. Complaint duly raised
 19 June  - Email to Mr (H) confirming  that the two funds remaining in the Joint discretionary portfolio  
are being transferred in-specie and provided an explanation for the delay
 17 July - Further chaser email from Mr (H) chasing progress of final two funds
 18 July - Further email update to Mr (H) advising that the delay is with the Fund Manager as they are 
unable to locate the custodians instructions which is required to process the instruction. Several 
letters have been sent chasing in order to progress matters. The case has been  treated as a priority
 6 August - Confirmation  email sent to Mr (H) stating transfer  is complete  (31 July)
It seems to me that most  of the assets  were transferred by early May 2018.  A minority were  left to be 
transferred after this point.  
Of the remaining two investments at this point, Barclays said:
Fund Manager  delay - Findlay Park there was a difference in units  (Decimals)  instead of 1743.979 
units Counter  Party (CP) instructions has 1747.98 units which we chased for 2 weeks with fund 
manager and advised CP (Counter Party) to send the revised instruction to fund manager
25.06.18 - UT Fund remaining (AXA)  waiting  for rejected letter. AXA stock  got rejected however there 
was delay  in sending the rejecting letter from fund manager. This was chased and escalated  with fund 
Ref: DRN37569876manager by post. Rejection letter received  only on 21/06 we sent our revised instructions on 22/06  
and transfer got completed on 25/06. Our records  indicate that the initial transfer request was not 
dated, however this was followed up shortly afterwards where we requested a rejection letter so that a 
new instruction could  be submitted.  The fund manager  through their own admission apologised for 
their delayed  response.  
31.07.18 - 1 UT (Findlay)  fund transfer have been completed as we have send (sic) out on 4 
occasions STF to Fund managers our instructions rejected for mismatch of units. As Counter Party 
place their instruction for 2 decimals in their online system  and we have  placed for three decimals.
It seems to me that most  transfers  had been made by April 2018 and only a few remained  by early  
May 2018. There would appear  to be only two funds that had not been transferred after 9 May 2018.  
Barclays has explained why there was a delay  in transfer for those  two funds. I have considered what 
happened and it does seem to me that this was a not a straightforward process  with a variety  of 
holdings which had to be traded in association with third parties  and requiring  a considerable 
amount of documentation. 
Mr Hs holdings were  fairly extensive and there is no clear evidence that Barclays  delayed things,  
although it is certainly  possible it could  have expediated the transfer of the final two holdings referred  
to. Having  said that my understanding is that they were in specie (meaning that the holding  was 
directly transferred and Mr and Mrs H were not out of the market) transfers, so I dont believe they 
were materially disadvantaged by this.
Where there are various parties involved  in such a process then there is the possibility that transfers 
might not be completed  as ideally would  be liked. My view is that most of the transfer (or sales) were 
completed in a reasonable  period and there are reasons why some were  delayed. I cannot  say that 
Barclays has made errors here that caused material  loss to Mr and Mrs H. 
Canada Life Bond
Barclays refers to an email  from FIRM  A of 16 March  2018  confirming that it had sent authority  letters 
to Canada Life. And Barclays then advised FIRM A that it needed to await an instruction from Canada  
Life before  taking action.
Barclays has said that it received this instruction on 3 April 2018 and on 3/4 April the bond was 
liquidated and cash transferred to the Bond provider.  By 13 April 2018 Barclays says that all but one 
trade completed and cash amount transferred to Canada Life. 
On 8 May Barclays confirmed final settlement. 
As I understand it about £900,000 had been paid to Canada Life by 9 April 2018,  leaving about 
£50,000 to be paid on 5 May 2018.  
The necessary actions regarding this investment  appear to me to have  been completed within a 
reasonable amount of time. It seems that Canada  Life was only provided with an authority on 16 
March 2018 and then encashment proceeded in a reasonable fashion.  
SIPP  Mr H
Barclays says that as of 13 April 2018 a request had not been received to transfer the SIPP.  It says 
that on 23 May 2018 that request was received and the SIPP was liquidated  with one trade left to 
settle on 31 May 2018. The request had been  actioned  by 1 June  2018.  There is a record of the cash 
being sent on 1 June 2018.
Bearing this in mind  it seems  to me that this liquidation and transfer was undertaken in a reasonable 
period of time.
Ref: DRN37569877ISA accounts
On 21 February 2018 Barclays says it sent an email to Mr H advising that it needed  a formal 
instruction from FIRM  A on its letter  headed paper to transfer. On 8 March 2018 Barclays says it sent 
an email to FIRM A saying it needed a letter of instruction. It then received an email from FIRM A 
saying that such an instruction will be sent. On 19 March  2018  Barclays says it received an ISA 
transfer letter  and on the same day an in specie transfer was instructed. 
Barclays then says:
 
23 May - Five funds are outstanding on Mrs (Hs)  ISA (AXA Framlington.  Findlay  Park Funds.  GS 
Quartix. Aviva  Investors and Blackrock Strategic  funds). 
 18 June  - Three funds are outstanding  on Mrs (H's) ISA ( AXA Framlington. Findlay Park Funds.  GS 
Quartix) 
 6 August - Remaining cash element sent to firm A within  2 working days.  
Despite requesting  a detailed explanation  why five funds were still outstanding on 23 May 
(approximately two months after the date when it appears Barclays could start the transfer), why three 
were still outstanding  on 18 June (approximately  three months later) and why value was still to be 
transferred in August,  Barclays has not provided such an explanation.  It has only provided  a series of 
emails which  do not describe why there was such a delay. 
Having said that, my understanding is that, as with the Discretionary Portfolio,  the holdings were 
transferred in specie. So I do not believe it is likely that investment losses  were caused by the time 
taken to transfer. 
However, I do believe the delay would have caused Mr and Mrs H some inconvenience and upset. As 
Barclays has not in my view justified these particular  delays, I am intending to award  them  £400 in 
this respect.
Execution only portfolio.
Barclays says that FIRM  A requested a valuation  of this portfolio on 27 April 2018. Barclays says that 
it didnt receive a formal instruction to sell a fund until 23 May 2018. It was then sold on or before 30 
May 2018. 
Given the timescale there does not appear to have been an unreasonable delay in selling this 
portfolio.
In summary
There were  many individual holdings within the various investment plans or facilities  whose transfer 
had to be authorised and then administered.  There was third party  and counterparty involvement. 
Most of the transfers  were completed within a reasonable amount of time. A minority took longer to 
complete and there were reasons for that. It does seem to me that the evidence is that there was 
regular contact between Barclays and FIRM A as to progressing the transfer. 
Most of the transfers  appear  to have  been in-specie. This means that the holding was transferred 
rather than it being sold for cash. A delay in such type of transfers would  not cause an investment 
loss. There  might be slight difference between the charges applied but considering the time taken 
overall I do not believe  that would be material . 
However some  of the transfers  in my view took an unreasonable  period to carry out  those  discussed 
in relation to the ISAs. So I do intend to uphold  the complaint in that respect.  But, in the main, I do not 
Ref: DRN37569878believe Barclays has made errors in transferring the investments that have caused Mr and Mrs H 
material loss.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint but only in relation to the ISAs. As discussed in this decision I intend to make 
an award of £400 to Mr and Mrs H. 
I do not intend  to uphold the complaint in any other respect.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3756987