K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Its not entirely clear  when  Mr T bought the policy but he took out the credit  card in February 
1999. So Lloyds  has used the same  date as the date the PPI was sold. I think  thats  
reasonable in the absence of any other information,  so Ive also considered  the sale as 
February 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think its likely Lloyds made  Mr T aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it. I havent  seen a copy of Mr Ts actual credit  card application form,. But 
Ive seen a copy  of the form it says Mr T wouldve most likely filled in at that time.  The form 
includes a separate  section  about PPI, with a separate box for Mr T to tick to take it. And I 
dont think its likely  the PPI wouldve been added unless Mr T had ticked  that box.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T, and it seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time he took it. Hed been  employed for a number 
of years,  and I havent seen anything to suggest he couldnt have used it to make a claim, 
such as a pre-existing medical condition or unusual working arrangements.
Mr T says that he subsequently became  unemployed, and then self-employed after taking 
the PPI cover. So hes questioned how the policy couldve been suitable for him in all of 
those circumstances.  
Lloyds only had to consider Mr Ts circumstances at the time it made the recommendation  
not things it didnt know would happen  in the future. So the way Mr Ts circumstances 
changed, in this instance, dont make me think Lloyds  did something wrong at the time of 
sale.
Although Mr Ts loss of employment doesnt  make  me think  Lloyds mis-sold the policy,  its 
possible that Mr T couldve  made  a claim at that time. I understand Mr T has said the policy  
didnt do what it was intended to do at the time he needed  it most, and I understand why hes 
said that. Id encourage Mr T to call the insurance  provider using the details our adjudicator 
provided him, as he may be able to make a backdated claim.
Ref: DRN32855522Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But Mr T doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to him. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped  him buying 
it. 
I want to reassure Mr T that Ive thought carefully  about everything hes said. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3285552