K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance (HF) failed to 
set up 
a direct debit for his payments towards a conditional sale agreement. 
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated 
28 February 2020. My provisional decision is attached below and forms part of my final 
decision. 
HF didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr W 
responded to say he thought my provisional decision was biased and he didnt accept 
it. He 
said that HF hadnt kept accurate records of phone calls and Id ignored this. He also 
thought Id ignored the fact that HF uses an auto dialler meaning it could potentially call a 
customer hundreds of times a day without leaving any record. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I still think the complaint 
should be upheld as set out in my provisional decision. 
I agree HF should have handled things differently. If it had taken the appropriate action upon 
receipt of Mr Ws amended direct debit form then there wouldnt have been any issue with 
the payments being collected. I think the complaint should be upheld and Mr W paid 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience he incurred as a result. 
If HF hadnt made a mistake, then all Mr Ws payments towards the account would have 
been collected and this would have been reflected on his credit file. So, HF needs to amend 
his credit file accordingly, to ensure hes not been adversely impacted by its mistake.  But, I 
also think its reasonable for HF to ask Mr W to make up the payment that was missed. 
HF has an obligation to record accurate information on Mr Ws credit report. If he doesnt 
make the
 payment or agree a repayment arrangement with HF then I think its fair for this to 
be recorded as an arrears on the account. I think three months is a reasonable time period 
to allow Mr W to bring the account up to date. If Mr W brings the account up to date within 
this period, then I think any reference to the account being in arrears should be removed 
from Mr Ws credit file.DRN3400723
2As I  explained in my provisional decision, HF does use an auto-dialler and it has confirmed 
that it only makes a note of calls if there has been some contact with the customer. I.e. the 
call has been answered or a voicemail left. I havent seen anything to suggest HF called 
Mr W  hundreds of times a day and he hasnt previously said this was the case. 
HF has confirmed  that the maximum calls per day made by the system could be ten but, in 
most instances, no more than three attempts would be made per day - and this would only 
happen if the call wasnt answered or directed to voicemail.  I think it would be better if HF 
could show exactly when it called Mr W, but from what Ive seen I dont agree with Mr W that 
the number of attempts were unreasonable. 
I think  it was reasonable for HF to make attempts to get in contact with Mr W  there was an 
issue on his account which meant the payments hadnt been collected and this needed to be 
rectified.  I fully appreciate Mr Ws point that the issue was caused by HFs mistake. But I 
dont think that should mean Mr W isnt required to make-up the missed payment. And I dont 
think HF treated Mr W unfairly in attempting to contact him to make this payment. 
I do  think that by not setting the direct debit up correctly when it should have HF caused 
Mr W  some inconvenience and he was understandably concerned about the impact of the 
mistake on his credit file. But I think £100 compensation is enough to put this right. So, Im 
not asking HF to pay any more compensation. 
my final  decision
I uphold  this complaint. To put things right Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai 
Finance should:
 refund the late  payment fee Mr W has paid + interest at 8% simple per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement
 amend  his credit file so no adverse information is registered for the three months
detailed above
 remove  any reference to the account being in arrears from Mr Ws credit file if the
account is brought up to date within three months of my final decision
 pay  £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Christopher Bick
ombudsman3My provisional decision
complaint
Mr W complains  that Hyundai Capital UK Limited t/as Hyundai Finance  (HF) failed to set up a direct 
debit for his payments  towards  a conditional sale agreement. 
background
Mr W has a conditional sale agreement with HF. Under  the agreement  hes required to pay £149.95 
per month.  Mr W contacted HF on 13 August  2018  to explain that he would like to change  the account 
his payments were taken from.  The advisor  explained 
Mr W would  need to submit a new direct debit form and confirmed the email address he would  need 
to send it to. Mr W couldnt note this down at the time of the call, but the advisor also explained that 
the email address could be found on HFs website.
Mr W sent a copy of the form to HF on 17 August 2018. But he sent it to a different  email address 
than hed been advised  to. The address  was used by another department of HF. 
Mr W received  an acknowledgement on 21 August  2018 asking him to confirm some details so the 
new direct  debit could be set up. He responded the same day. 
On 29 August 2018 HF wrote to Mr W to explain his old direct debit had been cancelled  and he would  
need to get in touch to ensure payments were  made  towards the account.  Mr W got in contact with 
HF and explained  that hed already sent a new direct debit mandate. After  confirming the email 
address hed used, Mr W was told that it wasnt the correct address and he would need to resend it. 
Mr W said he sent the direct debit mandate to the email  address hed been  advised to in the previous 
phone call. He said HF should retrieve the form, it had breached his data by losing it and he wasnt 
willing to provide another form until HF could  explain  what  had happened. 
A complaint  was logged and HF attempted to call Mr W back on 30 August  2018.  The manager 
couldnt get through and left Mr W a voicemail.  Later,  because the direct debit wasnt set up correctly,  
Mr Ws September and October payments  towards the agreement werent  collected.
HF issued a final response on 8 October 2018. It explained that HF could have retrieved the direct 
debate mandate from the email address Mr W sent the form to. It confirmed the direct debit was now 
set up and the late fee applied in September 2018 would be refunded. 
HFs final response letter  was sent around the same time that months  payment should have been 
collected and another late payment fee was applied in October 2018.  This fee wasnt refunded and Mr 
W paid it when he made a payment of £334.90 (two monthly  payments and the late fee) on 5 
November 2018. 
Although HF had confirmed that the direct debit would be set up, the November 2018 payment wasnt 
collected by direct debit either. HF continued to contact Mr W to chase the payment, but couldnt 
reach him. 
Unhappy with how HF had dealt with the matter Mr W referred his complaint to this service. The 
investigator who looked at the complaint concluded  that HF had done enough  to put things  right so 
didnt recommend it do anything  else. HF accepted this, but Mr W didnt, so the case  has been 
referred to me to decide.  
After my initial review of the complaint I let both sides know that I thought HF had done something 
wrong and needed to do more to put things right, I explained:4I don't think  the adviser in the original call provided Mr W incorrect information about what email 
address to use. But the email  address  he used was for the arrears management department. Mr W 
received acknowledgement from that department and a request to confirm the vehicle  registration  on 
21 August 2018 which he responded  to the same  day.
So I thought HF could have set up the direct debit in time to take the payments in September, October 
and November  - but didn't. This was acknowledged in the final response when HF agreed that the late 
payment fee applied to the account would be refunded. 
I could see one late payment  fee had been  refunded  but the final response was issued on 
8 October 2018. The 6 October 2018 direct debit had also not been collected,  so another payment 
had been missed - meaning a further late payment was applied.  This has been paid by Mr W but I 
thought it should also be refunded with interest. And his credit file should be updated to show no late 
payments for the three missed payments. I also recommended HF pay Mr W £100 compensation  for 
the trouble and upset caused.
HF accepted this but Mr W didnt. Mr W has provided a number of points  in response,  in summary he 
said:
HF deliberately  didnt set the direct debit up when it should have. And then acted fraudulently 
in applying the direct debit mandate and taking payment  in December and hasnt explained 
why there was a delay  in it being set up.  
HF hadnt  made him aware that a late payment  fee had been applied in October.
HF hadnt  made him aware that the November payment had been missed and that a late 
payment fee had been  applied as a result. 
he shouldnt be required  to make the November 2018 payment that was missed 
his credit file is still showing in arrears
£100  wasnt  sufficient compensation for the hassle and aggravation  this has caused 
making the payment in November caused  him financial hardship   the direct debits were  due 
to be paid from his wifes bank account and he had to make a credit card payment to cover the 
missed payments from September  and October.  
HF had harassed him chasing for payments  which  hadnt been made  and called  him 5 or 6 
times a day. 
Because Mr W didnt accept  HFs offer Im required  to issue a decision on the complaint.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so Im satisfied that the complaint should  be upheld  and 
Ive explained why in more  detail below.  
HF had sufficient information to set the direct  debit  up in time to take all of Mr Ws payments that were 
missed but it didnt. It acknowledged that part of the reason for the delay was human  error, because  
the adviser Mr W spoke to in August hadnt retrieved  the form from the collections department.  Mr W 
has said the adviser  told him this would be set up in October 2018 and so it should have been in 
place to collect  his November 2018 payment but wasnt. The direct debit was set up so HF could 
successfully collect the direct debit in December  2018. 
I dont agree with Mr Ws assertion that HF shouldnt have  collected the payment in December 2018 
or that to do so was fraudulent. Mr W hadnt told HF not to accept  the direct debit mandate or to not 
collect payments and to not to do so would have caused further arrears on Mr Ws account. So, I think 
it acted  reasonably in taking the December  2018 payment.  
Mr W also paid a late payment fee which was applied to the account  in October. This should be 
refunded with interest at 8% simple per annum. 5But the November payment  that Mr W missed was something  he was also always required to pay and 
I dont think HF should be required to waive  it because of the mistake  it made. HF should allow Mr W 
a reasonable period  to make  up the missed payment, I think  three months would  be fair.  
I dont think it would  be fair for any missed payments  to be recorded  on Mr Ws credit file when HF 
had the necessary information to set up the direct debit but didnt. So it should amend his credit file to 
show no missed payments  in September and October 2018.  And if the November payment is made  
within 3 months HF should also amend Mr Ws credit  file to show this payment wasnt missed. 
Because Mr W hasnt yet made the payment HF is currently  recording his account  as being  in arrears. 
This is an accurate reflection  of the account status so I dont think  HF has made a mistake in doing 
this. But because this stems from HFs original mistake I think that it should  amend  Mr Ws credit file 
to remove any reference to this arrears once the account has been brought up to date as per my 
finding above.  But if Mr W doesnt  bring  the account up to date then HF would be entitled to continue 
to record  the account as being in arrears and take action to recover the outstanding  amount  as per 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Ive also thought  about  the reasons Mr W has provided to justify HF paying him more  compensation. 
was it reasonable  for HF to contact Mr W as regularly as it did?
Mr W has said he received at least two or three calls most days  with five or six on others. Ive asked 
him to provide evidence of this such as a phone bill but this hasnt  been submitted. HF has said that it 
does use an auto-dialler and these calls arent noted on its systems  as notes are only left when  
contact is made ie the call has been answered  or a voicemail left. 
HF has provided its contact  notes which show there were a number  of calls made to Mr W to chase 
him for the outstanding  payments in November  and December. The notes  show there were six calls in 
November and another nine in December and a voicemail  left for each.
I havent seen anything which  suggests  Mr W had got in contact  with HF following  these  calls or made  
any attempt to address  the arrears on the account.  And he has explained he chose not to call HF 
back.  
While I appreciate the November payment should have been collected  by direct debit,  it wasnt.  I think  
it was reasonable for HF to try and collect this payment  and I dont think its attempts to contact Mr W 
should be considered harassment. Had Mr W got in touch  with HF to make the payment which was 
due, or to explain why he couldnt make the payment, then I think  HF wouldnt have called  him as 
much as it did. And I havent seen anything to suggest it called him at unreasonable times or HF 
continued to call Mr W after he asked it not to. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for HF to try and 
contact Mr W as much as it did. 
did HF let Mr W know a late fee had been applied in October and that the November payment  
hadnt been made?
A late payment fee was applied in October which HF has agreed to refund. I can see from the account 
notes that a letter  was sent to Mr W on 13 October 2018 to advise him of this. 
Mr W has said HF hasnt met its regulatory  obligations  because  it didnt let him know Novembers  
payment had been missed.   Hes referred to the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) 7.19.4  which 
says: 
"Where a default sum becomes payable  under a P2P agreement by the borrower, the firm must  give 
notice to the borrower6The rule Mr W has referred to relates to peer-to-peer  lending which is a different type of lending to Mr 
Ws conditional sale agreement. But Ive considered  all relevant legislation which  applies to Mr Ws 
agreement with HF including CONC, when deciding  what a fair outcome to the complaint is. 
When default sums were  applied the system notes  provided by HF suggest letters  were  sent and its 
also provided  copies of those letters.  As detailed above, HF made a number of attempts  to contact Mr 
W to collect Novembers payment and left him a number of voicemails. But its system notes also 
suggest it sent him a letter on 25 November  2018 as well as text messages on 5 and 15 December 
2018 advising  him of the arrears on the account.  
Mr W has said these letters and text messages were  not received. And has referred to CONC 7.9.7 R 
which requires:
a firm to ensure  that:
1.(1) post sent by the firm is properly addressed to the customer and marked private and 
confidential or an expression to the same effect;
I can see HFs notes say they were sent and the letters were correctly  addressed with the same 
address we hold for Mr W.  I cant say for sure the letters were sent and Im not disputing  that Mr W 
didnt receive them. But based on the evidence  I have seen, Im satisfied HF did enough to make Mr 
W aware the payment hadnt been collected and still needed to be paid. 
In response to the adjudicator HF said it could have applied a late payment fee in 
November 2018 as the payment wasnt made on time. But it hadnt actually applied a late payment  
fee in November 2018  and it has agreed to refund the late payment  that was applied  in October 2018. 
Meaning Mr W will not incur any late payment fees as a result  of this issue. I think this is fair. 
did HF cause Mr Ws financial  hardshi p?
Mr W has said making the payment in November  caused him financial hardship. Hes also referred  to 
CONC 7.3.10  which says:  
A  firm must not pressurise a customer:
1.(1) to pay a debt in one single or very few repayments or in unreasonably large amounts, when to 
do so would have an adverse impact  on the customer's financial circumstances;
Mr Ws said that he was threatened with his car being repossessed if he didnt clear the arrears  in full. 
He also explained that because  the direct debit payments were due to be debited  from his wifes  bank 
account he had already  transferred the funds  from his account  to cover those payments. I havent 
seen account statements  to confirm this happened. But it doesnt  change  my mind about what fair 
compensation is in any event. 
Mr W has said that having  to make a double payment  in November 2018 was sudden and unexpected 
and put him in financial  difficulty  because hed just paid for a holiday. But Mr W was aware that the 
direct debit hadnt been  set up before the September or October  payments were  due to be collected. 
He could have taken steps to ensure the payments  were made on time but didnt. So, I think  he could 
have mitigated any loss here and I dont think the payments being  required was sudden  or 
unexpected. 
The funds hadnt been  taken  from his wifes  account and were  still available for Mr W to use - whether  
that be to pay HF or to pay towards his credit  card once hed paid HF. So, I dont think he was 
financially worse off as a result of HFs error. 7The only additional fee Mr W incurred  was the late payment fee of £35. The November 2018 payment 
of £149.95 wasnt taken and the payment was made on 5 November 2018. So,
Mr W had actually  paid less at that point  than he would  have had the direct debit been set up correctly 
from the outset.  So I dont think  HF is responsible  for any financial hardship Mr W was caused. 
Ive also reviewed the letters  Mr W was sent regarding the arrears. I dont think  that HF put any undue 
pressure on Mr W to make the payment and clear the arrears but rather explained  the consequences 
of being in arrears. So I dont think HF treated  Mr W unfairly in this regard. 
If Mr W would  like the compensation  Ive awarded to be paid towards the account arrears he can 
request HF does this. And if Mr W feels he cant  afford  to clear the arrears he should contact HF to 
discuss directly  to discuss this and how any payment arrangement will be recorded on his credit file.
Mr W has recently explained he thinks his wife was hospitalised  a result of the stress  caused by HF. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mrs W wasnt well but I havent seen anything  to suggest HF should be 
held responsible for her ill health.  So Im not asking HF to do anything  in this regard.  
how much compensation should HF pay Mr W?
I think  Mr W should receive compensation for the trouble and upset  he was caused by HF not setting  
the direct debit up when it should have  and applying a late payment fee unfairly.  But I think £100 is 
sufficient compensation to make up for the upset caused by its mistakes. So Im not asking it to pay 
any more.   
Mr W has also raised concerns about more  recent telephone calls hes received from HF. Ive not 
considered those telephone calls as part of my review. If Mr W is unhappy with the response he 
receives from HF regarding these calls in case  ask this service to investigate the issue as a new 
complaint. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further evidence  I receive  Im minded to uphold this complaint. To put things right 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited t/as Hyundai Finance should:
refund the late payment  fee Mr W has paid + interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
amend his credit file so no adverse information is registered for the three months detailed  
above
remove any reference  to the account being in arrears from Mr Ws credit file if the account  is 
brought up to date within  three months of my final decision
pay £100  compensation  for the trouble and upset caused.