K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about unfair charges applied to his account by Santander UK plc.
background
Mr R says Santander has applied unfair  charges to his account which has caused him 
financial difficulty. He says as a result  hes been  unable to buy necessities such  as food and 
the charges have caused his account  to be further overdrawn. Mr R would like all of the 
charges repaid to him.
Santander says the charges have been correctly applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says its given Mr R details  of specialist team that could provide him with help 
but says Mr Rs main spending is on gambling.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained that we could only look at 
the last six years of charges. Mr R accepted that view. The investigator thought the charges 
were made in line with the account  terms and conditions  and so didnt think  Santander had 
made a mistake or acted unfairly. The investigator also thought Santander had acted 
positively and sympathetically to Mr Rs position  by refunding charges and providing details 
of its specialist debt team.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and says Santanders  actions have  pushed  him into hardship 
and that their charges are obscene. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator for similar reasons. I realise Mr R will be disappointed 
by my decision.
Ive looked at Mr Rs account terms and conditions  which I think  Mr R would have agreed to 
when the account was opened and can see that Santander can make charges in certain  
circumstances. So I dont  think Santander  made  a mistake or acted unfairly by making 
charges here when  Mr Rs account  was overdrawn.
I appreciate Mr R says those charges were too high. But following a Supreme  Court case  it 
has been decided  that bank charges cant be challenged on the grounds they are too high 
and so unfair.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial  difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied Santander  has acted in such a way here.  I can see that it has 
in the past refunded charges and has also provided  Mr R with details of its specialist team  
that could provide help and support to him. Ive looked at Mr Rs account statements over 
the last six years. And having done so Ive come to the overall view that on balance  its been 
the type of Mr Rs spending  that has caused the account to become overdrawn.
As I dont think Santander has acted  unfairly  or made a mistake then I cant  fairly  order  it to 
refund the charges as Mr R would like.
Ref: DRN36310822my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3631082