K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc ((BoS) trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs F, so Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Mrs F says that she was made to take out the MPPI if she wanted  the mortgage  and 
there was no other option  and that she signed  the paperwork because  she felt she had 
to. She says she was pushed in to it. I wasnt there  at the time and I cant know what was 
said, so I have  to base my decision on the information I do have.
BoS has provided a copy of Mrs Fs mortgage  application, and the separate MPPI 
application completed at the time.  Mrs F has signed  both of these applications.  Having 
looked at these, I can see that the MPPI is presented as an optional product, and 
nowhere in the paperwork  does it suggest  that a mortgage is more likely to be approved 
by taking MPPI.
BoS gave Mrs F advice when it sold her the mortgage and MPPI  so I wouldve  
expected it to explain why Mrs F had a need  for the policy, and advise her to take it out. 
But this isnt the same as being told she had to take it  and the paperwork shows  that 
the MPPI  is optional. And as Mrs F was making an important financial decision at the 
time, I wouldve expected  her to read through the paperwork, and questioned this at the 
time if she felt that shes been led to believe differently.
So on balance, I think BoS made  it clear  that Mrs F didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
she chose to take it out.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mrs F so it had to check that the MPPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. I understand that Mrs F has told us that she 
had a guaranteed income from her ex-husband that couldve met her mortgage 
repayments. But Mrs F would also have had to maintain other living  expenses  if she was 
off work due to sickness or unemployment,  and the MPPI couldve mean this income 
couldve been used  for this purpose. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs F about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN38616572Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said - but these points dont change  my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mrs F some of the commission  she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types  of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Fs mortgage  became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any 
of the commission  Mrs F paid for the MPPI she had with that mortgage.
Mrs F says that as she only paid for the MPPI  for the period the mortgage was unregulated,  
she should get the commission she paid back. But as Ive explained, for the rules and 
guidance to apply at all, the mortgage would  have needed to still be unregulated on 6 April 
2008  and her mortgage became regulated  in February 2007 when she took out a further 
advance. The fact she only paid for the PPI while  the mortgage was unregulated doesnt 
change this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3861657