K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a mortgage payment  protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs G took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 1991. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.
I issued a provisional decision to allow Mrs G and Nationwide  to respond before this final 
decision. Nationwide said it remained  of the view that the MPPI wasnt  mis-sold to Mrs G. 
Mrs G provided  no further information  or comment.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint because:
The MPPI was compulsory as a condition of the mortgage.  This was because Mrs G was 
borrowing 100%  of the cost of her property  purchase.  So she had to take the MPPI  to get 
the mortgage. I think its most likely  that Nationwide made her aware of this in the 
mortgage offer. And that Mrs G wouldve most likely had the advice of a solicitor  on the 
terms of the mortgage. I appreciate  it was a long time ago, and that Mrs G 
understandably doesnt remember what happened.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the MPPI  to Mrs G so it didnt have  to check  if it was right 
for her.
I think its possible that Nationwide couldve explained the cost of the policy  better than it 
did. But even  if it had, I think Mrs G would  still have bought it.
Its possible  that Nationwide didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But 
although Mrs G had a medical condition, I dont think knowing this wouldnt be covered 
wouldve stopped  her buying  the MPPI. To do so, shed have had to take a mortgage 
with a different  provider.  And theres no guarantee this wouldve been possible or that 
another provider  wouldve allowed her to borrow the full cost of the property without 
similar MPPI. So I think its likely that Mrs G would still have taken the MPPI anyway, in 
order to get the mortgage.
Ive taken into account Mrs Gs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN31219682Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3121968