K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs M say National & Provincial  Building Society, now known as 
Santander UK Plc, mis-sold them the PPI. 
Ill refer only to Santander as the seller in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Given the time thats passed, its understandable that the available  informations limited.  
But, from what Ive seen,  I cant fairly say that Santander suggested Mr and Mrs M had 
to have the PPI if they wanted  the mortgage,  as theyve  argued. Theres nothing to 
suggest they werent told the PPI was optional or that they didnt agree to take it.
From  experience, its likely Santander  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had 
to check that the PPI was right for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, they werent  affected  by any 
of the exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI cover  and they seem  to have had a need for the 
cover despite having some other  means  of meeting their monthly repayments for a time 
if either of them wasnt working.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But it appears  they chose to take it out  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said, including that were unfairly siding 
with Santander  despite the lack of information its provided from the time of the sale. I 
recognise their frustration but as Ive explained  I think its understandable that there are gaps 
in whats still available  in this case. Overall,  Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to conclude 
that the PPI was mis-sold  based on the information that I have.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN31126372Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112637