K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) have  accepted  responsibility for the sale and by extension  this complaint.
So Ive only referred to FICL during  this decision.
background
Mrs C took out a store card in 2004. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs C no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs C 
was off work  sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld.
FICL didnt  agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
FICL have  told us that they didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C. This means  they didnt have 
to take into account  Mrs Cs existing circumstances when selling her PPI. But they did still 
have to give Mrs C clear  information about  the policy so that she could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take it out. I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to conclude 
that FICL  did give Mrs C clear information about  the exclusions relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions.
I think knowing the exclusions  relating pre-existing medical conditions  would have  mattered 
to Mrs C. This is because she has told us (and I have no reason to doubt this) that she was 
suffering from a medical condition at the time of the sale. Ive thought  about  what FICL have 
said about the condition and their reasons for thinking it would still have  been  of use to     
Mrs C. But I disagree. The exclusion was drawn in such wide terms that it included  not only 
the condition itself but also related  conditions and associated symptoms. Given the nature  
of Mrs Cs condition and the possible complications  that could have arisen from it, I dont  
think Mrs C would have taken the policy had she been made  aware of the exclusion and how 
widely it was drafted. 
So I think FICL mis-sold Mrs C this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN33689862fair compensation
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account   from when  she closed  it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 15% a 
year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Financial Insurance  Company Limited and require them 
to compensate Mrs C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3368986