K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that AXA Insurance  UK Plc unfairly cancelled one of their 
home insurance policies.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a buildings insurance  policy with AXA for £500,000. They say they didnt 
realise that the policy would automatically renew,  so they took out a second  policy  also with 
AXA. The second  policy  had cover  of £1,000,000 for buildings.
In 2018 they made a claim under both policies after a fire badly damaged their home. 
The total cost of reinstating their property was £1,630,000.
AXA said they couldnt claim under both policies. It said their claim could only be dealt with 
under the policy  that had the higher  cover. It refused to combine the cover offered by the two 
policies. It cancelled the first policy back to the time the double insurance  had started, saying 
that policy had no benefit to Mr and Mrs L and it refunded the premium.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was fair. They  said there was nothing  in law or the policy 
wording which prevented them from taking out two insurance policies to cover the same risk 
so long as they didnt  claim for more than theyd lost.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
thought AXA had followed standard insurance practice.
As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, the matter has been  passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Double insurance usually  occurs when someone  has the benefit of insurance  policies on the 
same property against the same risks but with different insurers. The general approach  in 
the event of double insurance  is (subject  to the terms  of each policy) that the policyholder 
may claim  under whichever policy they prefer but cant claim in full under both policies. This 
is because a policyholder shouldnt profit from an insurance claim  insurance  isnt meant to 
put them into a better  position than they would have been in before the loss happened.  So 
having double  insurance doesnt increase  the overall amount of cover the policyholder has. 
This means  double insurance doesnt result  in Mr and Mrs L having £1,000,000 worth of 
buildings cover under one policy  and if that limit is reached, a further  £500,000 under the 
other policy.
In this case both policies were with AXA.  But I dont  think that should change  the general  
principle that the policyholder shouldnt receive a full claim settlement under both policies. 
This case is further complicated  by the fact that neither policy  insured  Mr and Mrs Ls 
buildings for the full reinstatement cost.  But again  I dont think  that justifies moving away  
from the general principles of double insurance. Thats  because  if they had fully insured their 
buildings under both policies, theyd  have made  a profit by receiving a full claim settlement 
Ref: DRN39944042under both policies.  As explained above, double insurance isnt a means of increasing the 
amount of cover.
AXA cancelled the policy with cover of £500,000. Since Mr and Mrs L couldnt benefit from 
claiming under both policies for the one loss, I think that was fair since it left the policy with 
the greater amount of cover in force.
Lastly Ive looked  at whether AXA should  have noticed that Mr and Mrs L had double 
insurance. One policy was taken out through a broker and the other direct with AXA.  The 
policies werent  identical  and so the details might have been held on different  systems. So I 
dont think AXA was at fault.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3994404