K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about their commercial property insurer Society of Lloyds 
(SOL) because it has declined their claims made for water damage.
background
On 22 February 2017 Mr and Mrs S made  a claim via their broker. They said a leak from the 
washing machine  had flooded a top floor flat and caused damage  to the ceiling in the flat 
below. They later said a leak had also been found coming from the shower  in the top floor 
flat which  had damaged the shower room.  They  asked  SOL to pay rent lost in respect of 
both flats as well as a third they said was unsafe  to live in during the repair works.
SOL investigated and Mr and Mrs S confirmed the shower leak had occurred in 
September 2016. SOL pointed out its policy began in December 2016 and declined liability 
for the damaged shower room.
SOL said it wasnt clear if the shower  leak had caused any damage to the ceiling below, or if 
this was all due to the kitchen leak  it said Mr S had taken the ceiling down before it had 
chance to inspect it. It noted  that the only plumbing work Mr S had done in the kitchen was 
to unblock the sink waste pipe. SOL said a blockage like this was unlikely to have caused 
the washing machine to leak or back up into the sink and all the signs were that the sink had 
overflowed likely due to the taps having  been  left on. It said the policy had an exclusion for 
damage caused by tenants and declined the claim for damage  to the kitchen and ceiling 
below.
Regarding the lost rent SOLs position wasnt entirely clear.  It seems it felt Mr and Mrs Ss 
claim for this was at least excessive  covering a longer period of time than repairs would 
take. But it also clearly  felt there was no loss covered by the policy  for the third flat 
unaffected by the water  damage, that the flat with the damaged  ceiling had become vacant 
around the time the policy came  into place but not as a result  of the water damage,  and that 
as the tenant had likely caused  damage in the other flat, no successful  claim for lost rent 
could attach there either. Whether this was communicated to Mr and Mrs S isnt clear.
Mr and Mrs S complained to our service.
Our investigator said she couldnt  see any exclusion  regarding tenants causing  damage on 
the policy. She said SOL should  deal with the damage caused by the kitchen sink blockage  
but not any to do with the shower.  She said she didnt think  SOL should  cover any lost rent 
either. Our investigator did think SOL should pay Mr and Mrs S £150 compensation though 
for the upset it had caused by giving  them  wrong  information (about the policy  exclusion) 
and for having  had to complete repairs themselves.
Mr and Mrs S accepted our findings.  SOL pointed to the policy  schedule  where  the exclusion 
regarding tenants  causing damage was set out. It took SOL some while to provide this 
information though and the complaint came to me for consideration. I issued a provisional 
decision. My provisional findings were:
Mr S told us that he did receive a copy of the policy schedule. The policy schedule does 
contain an exclusion for damage caused  by tenants. Its somewhat unusual  to see an 
exclusion like this set out on the schedule but the exclusion itself isnt unusual. And it being 
Ref: DRN37436052in the policy  schedule makes it more prominent than most policies where its often found 
within a much longer  document, in amongst many other terms.
The reason  for such exclusions, and the reason  they are so common,  is because  tenanted  
properties carry a certain  risk for insurers. Tenants are less likely to take care of a property 
than a homeowner  is because they dont  own it. So insurers  dont want to be responsible  for 
careless or deliberate acts of tenants  and limit their liability in this respect by including 
exclusions like this in their policies.
Theres little hard evidence available about  the cause of the leak.  SOL says the washing 
machine and sink pipes  arent plumbed in such a way as would likely allow the discharging  
washing machine  to back up into the sink. It also says the amount of water  from one wash 
wouldnt cause the scale of damage present in the top floor flat.
Mr and Mrs S seem uncertain about what occurred and when. For example theyve told us at 
least two different things.  First that the tenant left the machine on whilst going  out to work for 
the day. The second that the tenant had left the machine on overnight.
Its also unclear when the damage occurred. Mr and Mrs S said the tenant below told them  
about water  running  down  the walls. But that tenant seems to have left in early
December 2016,  around the time the policy began. But there  is also reference to the builder 
finding the damage when  the tenant moved out in January 2016  yet I also see reference to 
the tenant vacating in January as being  the one living in the flat unaffected by the water 
damage.
Mr and Mrs S havent provided any evidence  that shows SOLs view of the pipes and 
amount of water against the type of damage is likely wrong. They just remain adamant  that 
the washing machine was the cause. Whilst I dont  doubt they believe this, its difficult  for me 
to accept that as being most  likely when the story  of the loss is so unclear and uncertain.  For 
me, that lack of clarity  means their belief isnt persuasive.
There is detail on file regarding a dispute  between Mr and Mrs S and the top floor tenant. 
There is information which suggests  the flat was in a generally poor condition and the tenant 
had been causing a nuisance with the tenants  below.
Mr and Mrs S have  also sought to claim for the shower damage from SOL. That despite 
having been told the leak occurred before  the SOL policy began. And given the kitchen and 
shower room in the top floor flat back on to one another,  I understand SOLs concerns that at 
least part of the damage to the ceiling below was caused by the shower leak and before it 
was providing cover.  It also isnt clear whether, and if so, to what extent,  the shower leak 
may have  affected  the kitchen (I understand the slowly leaking pipe was in the wall between  
the two rooms).
Overall I can understand why SOL was minded to decline both claims.  It certainly  had no 
liability for damage which occurred before its policy began. And the situation regarding  the 
kitchen damage is so unclear it cant fairly  be said to have most likely resulted from a one-off 
incident during  the policy  term, which wasnt caused by the tenants careless or deliberately 
negligent acts.
Its quite normal for loss of rent cover  on policies to only attach when there is a valid damage 
claim under the policy. I think there likely were some issues  with the period of rent loss 
Mr and Mrs S were  seeking to claim for. And Im not convinced that it would be fair to claim 
Ref: DRN37436053for the undamaged flat  other arrangements for storing tools  and materials could have been 
made so the corridor  to that flat wasnt blocked.  But, in any event, as Im satisfied that SOLs 
decline of the damage claims  was fair and reasonable, theres  no claim for it to answer for 
lost rent.
As Im satisfied that SOLs decline was fair and reasonable, Im not going to award 
Mr and Mrs S any compensation for any distress and inconvenience theyve suffered.
SOL accepted my findings.  Mr and Mrs S did not. Over three phone calls they made a 
number of points  in reply. They also asked for a hearing but our investigator explained that 
was unnecessary. Mr and Mrs S were  disappointed but accepted  that. The points  
Mr and Mrs S made in the calls to our investigator can be summarised as:
The shower pipe and claim damage have been  mixed-up.
The loss adjuster had been told about the pipe for completeness  only.
The pipe didnt  cause  any damage, any leak from it went into the shower tray.
Theyd been told to go ahead with repairs and did so to limit costs.
The tenant in the third flat had been put in a hotel during the works.
The number for the tenant had been given  to the adjuster but no enquiries were  made.
SOL had been asked to look at the damage but it hadnt done so.
The flood  occurred  because  the drain was blocked and they have proof of the blockage  
being cleared.
The tenant didnt  know the drain  was blocked  or that this would stop the washing 
machine from emptying. So the damage  wasnt caused by the tenant.
SOL just wanted  to find any excuse not to settle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive heard what Mr and Mrs S have  to say. I understand the points  being  made  and what 
they believe happened and caused the damage. I dont need  to hold a hearing.
With regret for any disappointment this causes Mr and Mrs S, my view on their complaint 
hasnt changed.  I know Mr S believes the tenant didnt do this damage deliberately or 
foresee it happening. But the expert  consideration from SOL is that the washing machine 
wouldnt have backed up into the sink and, even if it had, water from one load of washing 
wouldnt have caused this amount of damage. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are in a difficult 
position but I havent seen  any expert  opinion provided by them to challenge that.
Overall, Im not persuaded SOL did anything wrong in declining  Mr and Mrs Ss claims for 
water damage and lost rent. Given the evidence available, I think  its decision was fair and 
reasonable. My provisional findings  set out above  now form part of the findings of this, my 
final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Ref: DRN37436054Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743605