K820x#14complaint
Miss B is unhappy that she was charged  legal fees for transferring  her joint TSB Bank  plc 
mortgage into her sole name.  She says the mortgage adviser told her thered be no fees.
background
Miss B had a joint mortgage with TSB and in October 2018 she applied  to transfer it into her 
sole name as her cousin  (who was the joint mortgagor) needed  to be released  from the 
mortgage so she could buy her own property.
Miss B says the mortgage adviser told her TSB would cover all the legal costs. She 
complained after completion as the solicitors had charged her £408  which  had been 
deducted from the mortgage surplus.  TSB said all the fees were set out in the paperwork.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as Miss B had signed declarations accepting the 
fees would  be chargeable. Miss B didnt agree and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Miss B initially said she didnt remember receiving any letters about the fees, and only 
recalled receiving the mortgage  offer.  After  our investigator explained Miss B had signed 
declarations enclosed with the letters Miss B said she didnt read the paperwork. I cant hold 
TSB liable for Miss B not reading things when she then signed  a declaration to say shed 
read and understood them.
The mortgage offer said If you use the Remortgage Service, TSB Bank  plc will arrange  for 
any legal  work required  in connection with the remortgage to be carried  out. This will not 
cover any legal advice  required  and will not cover any costs incurred for any additional legal 
work carried out on your behalf.
On 13 November 2018 the conveyancing firm wrote to Miss B. This letter said:
TSB have agreed to pay the law firms basic professional fees,  typically  worth around 
£200, for the standard  legal work required  in connection with your remortgage.
In certain circumstances the law firm will need  to conduct non-standard work  on your 
behalf. The cost of any other additional  service will be agreed between  you and the law 
firm before work commences. The table  below illustrates fees for some of the most 
common additional services and a full list is included  within  this pack.
The table then includes  the listing Dealing with a transfer of equity in the first line.
Ref: DRN32752032Miss B was also sent a Fees and Disbursements  Illustration  Sheet which listed:
Transfer of Equity Fee £245.00
VAT £49.00
Sending confirmation of the updated register  of title £20.00
VAT £4.00
It confirmed at the bottom Please note that the fees and disbursements  which  we have 
listed above are only an estimate at this stage.
On 11 December 2018 two letters were emailed  and posted to Miss B. The first enclosed the 
Transfer Deed, Draft  Completion statement, and Stamp Duty Land Tax Form. This letter 
said:
The fee for us to perform  a Transfer of Equity is £294.00.
Please find enclosed  a Draft  Completion Statement for your perusal. Your statement 
lists the additional fees that are payable by you in connection with your transaction.
Please be advised that we charge  an administration fee in the sum of £75.00  plus VAT 
for completing the Stamp Duty Land Transaction  Return
The other letter sent that day said:
We write  as we have performed a review of your file and note that we will be required to 
perform additional  work  on your behalf to complete  your transaction.  This additional 
work and corresponding fee is listed below.
Please find enclosed  a brief description of the additional work required to complete your 
transaction.
Please sign and return the declaration that is attached to this letter.  If you have any 
further queries regarding the above please do not hesitate to contact our Offices.
It then lists the additional  work, and corresponding fees, as:
Transfer of Equity Fee £294.00
Sending confirmation of the updated register  of title £24.00
SDLT Admin Fee £90.00
Miss B signed the additional fees declaration which  was part of that letter. The declaration 
she signed said I/We fully understand the contents  of this letter and understand the reasons 
why the additional fees are applicable. I/We agree to pay Total  Conveyancing Services the 
additional fees to allow them to carry out the additional work that is required to process the 
transaction.
Whilst I acknowledge Miss Bs recollections that she was told by the mortgage  adviser  
thered be no fees due, I must also bear in mind that she initially  didnt recall  receiving any of 
the above information, only later saying she did get it but didnt  read it.
That said,  even if I did conclude the mortgage adviser gave  Miss B the wrong information 
that still wouldnt mean her complaint would be upheld. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating 
Ref: DRN32752033it is when a business makes a mistake,  mistakes  do happen. In this case  it would have  been  
a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When were looking 
at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in 
the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been  given.  We dont put 
them in the position they would be in if it had been  correct. 
If the correct  information had been  given, Miss B would have been told by the mortgage 
adviser that she had to pay the legal fees. Miss B could never have been in the position 
where TSB would cover all the costs for her. As the mistake was corrected in writing on 
multiple occasions in November  and December 2018 (long before completion in 
February 2019) Miss B has already had the appropriate remedy in that she knew  the true 
position before she was tied to paying  the fees, as they were only payable if the transaction 
completed. As I said,  I cant hold TSB liable for Miss B not reading  the information  that was 
provided to her by it and the conveyancing firm. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3275203