K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) gave him loans that he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
Mr W was given nine loans by Uncle Buck  between  January 2015  and October 2016. Mr W 
has repaid all the loans.
 
When Mr W first complained to Uncle Buck it didnt think it had been wrong to agree any of 
the loans. Mr W didnt  accept that so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She thought  Uncle Buck  
had carried out sufficient checks before it agreed loans 1-4 and loans 7-9 but not before 
loans 5 and 6. She thought that better  checks  would  have shown  that loans 5 and 6 were 
unaffordable for Mr W. So she asked  Uncle Buck  to pay Mr W some compensation for this.
Uncle Buck  told us it got this assessment, and said it had responded confirming it agreed  
with the adjudicators view but this response hasnt been received. As it appears that Uncle  
Buck agrees  with the assessment of the adjudicator I plan to be brief in this decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether 
Mr W could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr W was borrowing, and his lending history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Im going  to look at whether Uncle Buck carried out appropriate  checks,  to satisfy itself Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable way. If not, Ill consider whether appropriate checks  
have most  likely shown  he could repay them  sustainably. Taking into account  the short term 
purpose of the loans,  Ill go on to consider whether  the overall  pattern of lending increase 
Mr Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful to him. Finally  Ill 
look at whether Uncle Buck acted unfairly  or unreasonably in any other way. 
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Mr W. Before  each loan it 
asked him for details  of his income,  and his normal monthly expenditure. And Uncle  Buck 
says that it also checked  Mr Ws credit file before agreeing each  loan. Ive not seen all the 
results from those credit checks,  but Uncle Buck says there was nothing that suggested  it 
shouldnt have lent to Mr W. 
I think, from the information  Ive seen, this was enough  information  for Uncle  Buck to collect  
for the first four loans.  Taking into account  the amounts  Mr W borrowed and his declared 
income and outgoings, it seems to me that these loans appeared affordable.
By the time Mr W asked  for loan 5 I dont think that simply gathering  details of Mr Ws normal 
expenditure was enough.  I think Uncle Buck should have been independently verifying the 
Ref: DRN39119422information Mr W was providing about  his finances. I think Mr Ws request might have shown 
Uncle Buck  that his finances were under significant pressure and prompted the extra  checks. 
I think by this point  what  Mr W was saying about  his finances was at odds with his borrowing 
pattern. 
Had it done further checks of Mr Ws financial position Uncle  Buck would have seen that he 
was spending  more than he earned on repaying short  term loans and gambling transactions. 
His outgoings on these  transactions  exceeded  his income and he didnt have enough  money 
to repay  the loan in a sustainable way without borrowing again. The position  is the same  for 
loan 6.
There was then a gap of 7 months  before Mr W asked for loan 7. I think this gap was enough 
to indicate to Uncle Buck that the issues Mr W was experiencing  may have passed. I think 
that the checks the business carried out before  loans 7-9 were proportionate and it was 
reasonable to treat this as a new chain of lending.     
If Uncle Buck had done what  I consider  to be proportionate checks  it would have seen that 
Mr W couldnt sustainably afford loans 5 and 6. Uncle Buck  needs to pay Mr W some 
compensation for these loans.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to give Mr W loans 5 and 6. So in relation  to 
these loans Uncle Buck should;
write off any interest and charges that Mr W hasnt  paid;
refund  any interest and charges  paid by Mr W on this loan plus 8% interest simple 
per annum on each  amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement*  
remove any adverse information  recorded  about the refunded  loans from Mr Ws 
credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3911942