K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions, a division of Hitachi Capital  (UK) PLC, 
(Hitachi) unfairly charged him a months  rental payment. And for a damage  to a van when he 
ended a hire agreement early. He would like the charges reduced so that he only pays for 
one area of damage.
background
Mr B says he lost his job, with no notice;  one month  after taking out a rental agreement in 
2017 with Hitachi.  At this point he contacted Hitachi  to end his agreement. He says Hitachi  
told him he would need  to pay £547.38 to cover  damage to the van and a months hire as it 
took a month for the van to be returned.
Mr B says he is willing to pay the £75 charge  for damage to the front bumper. But he doesnt 
feel he is liable to pay £50 to remove decals from the van or £173.40 for damage to the rear 
load door £173.40.
He says the decals were  arranged by the company  he worked for in conjunction with another 
company. Similarly the same companies  arranged for the van to be ply lined before he took 
delivery of the van  that is when he feels damage  to the rear load door occurred.
Finally Hitachi included  in the £547.38 an extra  months rental as it took a month for the van 
to be returned.  Mr B says this wasnt his fault.  He says he told Hitachi  the day he lost his job. 
So it could have  recovered the van immediately.
Hitachi said the charges  for damage  were  correctly charged in accordance  with the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  (BVRLA)  Guidelines. And noted Mr B had not signed  on delivery 
to say there  was damage to the rear load door. Also that Mr B signed an early termination 
calculation sheet which included  the outstanding one months rental  fee.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  He found that considering the BVRLA 
Guidelines Hitachi were  entitled to charge for damage to the van. He also found no mistake 
in the additional lease  cost that Hitachi charged.
Hitachi accepted  this view but Mr B didnt. He said he was happy to pay for the damage to 
the front bumper  but nothing else. He disputed the scratch damage to the rear load door and 
said this was caused when the van was ply lined prior to delivery. And the scratch  was in a 
place that was impossible to have happened  by normal  contact. 
He says he lost his job and the company he was employed by was responsible for the cost 
of removing the decals and for the extra  months rental. He says he told Hitachi as soon as 
he lost his job.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He said Mr B hadnt  
given any evidence to show  there  was damage to the van when he got it  but that he would 
consider this if Mr B could  provide it. 
He accepted Mr B felt the company that employed him were responsible for the months 
rental and removal  of the decals but said as the hire agreement was in Mr Bs name  Hitachi 
were entitled  to apply  the charges. He also didnt agree that Hitachi  were responsible for any 
delay in collecting the van.
Ref: DRN32228362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels  strongly about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate he is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr B ended his hire agreement early, or that there were 
two areas  of damage  to the van plus decals  that needed to be removed.
Mr B accepts he is responsible for damage to the front bumper and has said he is willing to 
pay that so I dont think I need to consider that particular point any further.
With regard to the damage to the rear load door Mr B said he noticed this when he took 
delivery of the van. But Ive seen the delivery form Mr B signed  that doesnt make  any 
reference to any damage  he noticed at the time.  And he hasnt given  us any evidence  to 
show he raised that as an issue at the time as he has told us that he did.
Mr B feels  the company  that ply lined the van before he took delivery  of it - as I understand it 
in agreement with the company he worked for  caused the damage and the same company 
applied the decals that he accepts  needs  removing. I have some  sympathy  with Mr Bs point. 
But I have seen the hire agreement he signed   its in his name  only so unfortunately the 
damage to the van and the removal of the decals is his responsibility.  On that basis I dont 
feel I can reasonably ask Hitachi to waive these charges.
In terms of the months rental that Mr B disputes  having looked at the agreement  he signed I 
can see that states that on early termination  of the agreement vehicles need to be returned 
immediately. 
Again I have some sympathy for Mr B here. Looking at the customer notes that Hitachi  has 
given us it seems a third party company involved took some time to return  the signed early 
termination form and that same  company  arranged  the final delivery date for the van to be 
collected.
But I can see that Mr B signed  an early  termination  request from which  clearly stated that he 
would be liable for the October rental charge. He doesnt seem  to have disputed that at the 
time. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Hitachi to charge for this.
However Hitachi has refunded Mr B the rental charge between 27 October   3rd November 
2017 as by that time the van had been  returned.  I think that was a reasonable approach.  But 
as I havent found Hitachi   did anything wrong I cant reasonably  ask it to waive that part of 
the October  rental  that it has charged  Mr B for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Ref: DRN32228363Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3222836