K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that a course she bought using finance provided by Retail Money Market 
Ltd (t/a RateSetter) was only available online,  when she wanted a book led course. She also 
says she didnt agree to take out a loan to pay for the course,  and shes  unhappy RateSetter 
is asking her to make  payments.
background
Mrs B says she bought  a course costing £335.  She says because she isnt very good at 
using the internet, she wanted one where she could get coursework and submit assignments  
by post, and carry out research using books. She didnt realise she could only complete the 
course she bought  online.  Mrs B also says she was talked  through  the process  of registering 
for the course and paying for it, but didnt really understand what was happening  nor that 
she was getting  a loan to pay for it.
Mrs B later told RateSetter she didnt want the course and RateSetter made some enquiries  
with the course  provider  about cancelling it. The course provider said it was too late for 
Mrs B to change her mind,  as shed had the course materials for over a month.
RateSetter told Mrs B this, and also that shed need to keep  paying  the loan.
Mrs B was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator said the only part of Mrs Bs complaint  she could look at was whether  Mrs B 
would reasonably be aware  shed taken out a loan, and she thought Mrs B would have 
known that. So she didnt recommend Mrs Bs complaint be upheld.
Mrs B remains unhappy so Ive been asked to look at this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service can look at many, but not every complaint.  We can only look at complaints that 
fall under the rules set out in the legislation that governs what we can do.
I dont think this service can look at the part of Mrs Bs complaint that is about the course  
being unsuitable for her. Id like to explain why.
In some circumstances,  when a customer uses finance to buy something  in this case a 
loan to buy a course   consumer legislation makes the lender equally responsible  with the 
seller of the goods or services  for the quality of those goods.  Those  rights  are outlined in s75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act. We are able to look at complaints where s75 applies.
However, some loans are made on whats called a non-commercial basis.  Then the 
protection provided by s75 isnt available. This service cant look at complaints like this if s75 
doesnt apply.
RateSetter provided Mrs Bs loan on this basis. The loan agreement Mrs B signed  says its a 
non-commercial agreement and that s75 does not apply. It goes on to explain  this means 
Mrs B couldnt claim against  it if she was unhappy with her course.  Im satisfied that 
Ref: DRN36519952information was available  to Mrs B when she was discussing the course and how to pay for 
it. 
This means  I am unable to consider the part of Mrs Bs complaint thats about the course 
only being available online. 
Mrs B has raised a second  main point  which  is that she didnt realise she was borrowing 
money in order to pay for the course. She says she isnt very knowledgeable about the 
internet, and that she was talked through the process  including  using an e-signature to 
apply for the course  over the phone. Ive thought about whether that means  the loan was 
mis-sold.
I asked RateSetter  to provide copies of any records it has from when Mrs B took out the 
loan. RateSetter  says the loan was sold to Mrs B by the course provider. So Ratesetter  
doesnt know exactly how the loan was described to Mrs B. Instead it was relying on the 
course provider to collect information from Mrs B so it (Ratesetter) could decide whether to 
lend the £335 to pay for the course.  Thats common practise for loans like this, and shouldnt 
disadvantage Mrs B. 
RateSetter has a responsibility to check  it had received the relevant information before 
lending to Mrs B. RateSetter sent us forms completed with information  such as Mrs Bs 
address and employers details   that suggests Mrs B was providing  that information.  The 
forms also show the amount Mrs B was borrowing (£335) and, I think importantly, the 
monthly payment  she was going to make, which was just under £30 for 12 months.  The 
paperwork also records how much Mrs B was earning at the time and her bank details.
The information collected covers the things Id expect a lender to want to know  about when 
deciding whether to lend.  It seems to me that RateSetter used  the information provided  and 
a satisfactory credit  check to assess whether Mrs B could  afford  the loan. It appeared that 
she could. I say that because Mrs Bs income  was recorded at about  £1,265  a month.  She 
was going to pay less than £30 a month for the loan, over 12 months. And, looking at her 
credit file from the time,  Mrs B didnt appear  to have so much other debt that making  this 
payment would strain her finances.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs B would most likely  have realised she was borrowing money 
and using that to pay for the course. But even if Mrs B didnt think she was taking  out a loan,  
Im not persuaded that would make much difference. Mrs B told us she thought she was 
paying for the course through her bank account, and hasnt questioned the cost of the 
course overall. So she was clearly  expecting to pay for the course  either up front or in 
instalments. I can see that the interest charged  on the loan was less than £25. I dont think  
that cost would influence Mrs Bs decision  to buy the course. 
I do understand that Mrs B is no longer working   but I wouldnt expect RateSetter  to take 
that into account when the loan was provided,  because it isnt something  it would know 
about.
Overall I havent seen any information  that persuades me that Mrs B shouldnt  have to repay 
the money she borrowed. Mrs B has said shes now struggling financially, and RateSetter  is 
obliged to be positive  and sympathetic in its responses to Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN36519953my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3651995