K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  actions  taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC following the end of 
their interest only mortgage. They want Barclays to agree to convert the mortgage to 
repayment terms, and also complain about how it has handled the mortgage  since  the term 
ended in 2014.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out their mortgage in around 2006. They had a repayment element, an 
interest only element,  and linked overdraft facility on their mortgage current  account (MCA). 
All three elements were  due for repayment  by 2014  and the repayment element was paid off 
at the end of the term as expected.
Due to changes in circumstances  since the mortgage was taken out  principally, Mr R says, 
related to the 2008 financial crash  Mr and Mrs R were not in a position to repay  the interest 
only element or MCA balance at the end of the term in 2014.
Barclays agreed an arrangement with Mr and Mrs R  Mr R says it was agreed under protest 
because he felt he had no choice. The arrangement was that Mr and Mrs R would pay their 
monthly payments  for five years, and in addition pay lump sums  by the end of each year,  
with the mortgage being paid off in full in 2019.  Mr R said he had a property abroad which 
was being sold,  as well as various cash and investments, which could be used to repay. This 
was an informal arrangement, not a formal term extension.
Barclays says the arrangement was broken in 2016/17, because Mr and Mrs R didnt pay the 
lump sum due by the 31 December 2016. Mr R says this was because he was in hospital 
and couldnt raise the funds. But he spoke to Barclays in January 2017  and agreed to make 
monthly overpayments  instead.  However, Barclays treated the arrangement as broken.
For the next two years,  Mr R and Barclays had many discussions about how the mortgage 
would be repaid. Among the options  explored  were equity release (but Mrs R is too young), 
the payment of lump sums, and the conversion  of the mortgage to repayment  terms, 
extended to when Mr R would be 85, in around  15 years time.
Mr R says the idea of converting to repayment came  from Barclays,  but he agreed to it as a 
good resolution of the problem. But then Barclays declined it, saying the monthly payments 
wouldnt be affordable  because of interest  rate stress testing  Mr R says stress testing is 
unnecessary if the interest rate is fixed for five years or more,  and in any case the mortgage 
rules say a lender doesnt need  to check affordability for existing borrowers. Mr R also says 
that different  departments of Barclays came  to different views of his finances based on the 
same expenditure  and the department that refused a repayment mortgage  had the lowest 
view of what he could afford.
Barclays said it had considered Mr Rs proposals  properly and in line with the mortgage 
rules. It said he and Mrs R had substantial assets and had chosen to use them  for other  
purposes, or retain  them,  rather than paying  back their mortgage.  It said the term ended in 
2014, Mr and Mrs R could  repay it if they chose, and it was reasonable to expect them to do 
so. It didnt think a term extension to 85 was in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests and it wasnt  
fair to extend the mortgage so that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to make  choices  about  their 
finances.
Ref: DRN34046962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the evidence of the discussions  around the time of the end of the term, in 
2014. Mr and Mrs R met with Barclays and after a discussion, it wrote to them setting out 
what it said was the agreed plan:
Maintaining the monthly interest payments;
By December 2015  Pay £5,000 lump  sum and either:
oPlace a property abroad on the market and when  sold pay £90,000  to the 
mortgage; or
oIf the property does not sell, pay a further £10,000 lump sum
By December 2016  Pay further £8,000 lump sum, and place a UK property on the 
market, paying  £100,000 lump  sum when  sold
By December 2017  Pay further lump sum of £12,000
By December 2018  Pay further lump sum of £15,000
By August 2019  Pay further lump sum of £7,000 and then sell other  assets to repay 
the mortgage capital in full.
Ive no reason to doubt that this was the arrangement  agreed  at the time, and something that 
Mr and Mrs R accepted.  I recognise that Mr R says they did so under protest because  they 
felt they had no choice. But their mortgage  was overdue for repayment  at that point. 
Barclays could have  taken action  such as possession proceedings  to recover  the money.  
That, realistically, was the only alternative to either extending the term of the mortgage or 
coming up with a plan to repay it. They wrote to Barclays in late 2014 accepting the 
repayment timetable,  though they asked for their mortgage to be moved off its lifetime  
tracker rate onto a fixed interest rate as they were concerned about the possibility of future 
interest rate rises.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Barclays to decide that it wasnt  willing  simply to extend 
the term. It had agreed to lend the money  in the first place in the expectation that Mr and Mrs 
R had agreed to pay it back in 2014, and theyd agreed to that to. It was reasonable for 
Barclays to expect them to do so if they could.  It recognised they couldnt  do so immediately, 
but also recognised  that they had sufficient assets to do so. It agreed a plan for the capital to 
be repaid over five years, and I think that was fair in all the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs R maintained  the interest payments, and they paid £15,000 in November 2015. 
However, they didnt  meet  the 2016 lump  sum payment  requirement,  and werent  able to sell 
the property abroad. They  say this was because of Mr Rs illness in 2016, and changes  to 
their family circumstances, as well as changes  to the market following the 2016 referendum.
Barclays wrote to them in 2017 saying that they had fallen  behind with the plan, and they 
wrote back  explaining their situation. They  said they had understood the main points of the 
plan were payment  of the monthly payments and repayment of the full capital by 2019; the 
lump sum payments in between were  aspirational rather than set in stone. Mr and Mrs R 
proposed an alternative plan whereby  they would make small overpayments  each month.  
They would then repay the mortgage in 2019  either  by selling their property abroad, reducing  
the balance and re-mortgaging elsewhere,  or by selling this property  and downsizing.  
Ref: DRN34046963I do understand why this was a difficult time, and a difficult situation,  for Mr and Mrs R. But 
they had agreed  to maintain the agreed  plan,  including the lump  sum payments (I dont 
agree they were aspirational  they were part of the plan)  and hadnt  been able to do so. 
As a result, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays  to want to think again about  whether the 
arrangement was sustainable and whether the mortgage was on track to be repaid by 
August 2019 as agreed.
There followed an exchange of letters  and several  phone calls, in which  Mr and Mrs R 
proposed various  options to repay the mortgage   these included equity release once Mrs R 
became old enough, the sale of a second  property (which Mr and Mrs R didnt want  to put on 
the market for another 20 months), reliance on an inheritance  should  Mrs Rs father pass 
away, and downsizing  by selling the mortgaged property once their family  situation 
improved.
Barclays didnt agree with any of these proposals. It said it thought Mr and Mrs R could 
afford to pay more each  month based on their income and expenditure. And it said their 
plans for repaying  the capital were uncertain   both as to date, and as to whether they would 
raise enough  to pay off the mortgage.  It considered their income and expenditure to see if 
they could afford to make more in overpayments  each month to reduce the balance, instead  
of the agreed  lump  sum payments.
Mr R wasnt happy about the income and expenditure information Barclays used, and in 
particular the estimates  it used to say their expenditure was too high, and the different 
figures arrived at for affordable payments at different times. I can understand his frustration 
about this. Assessing affordability from income  and expenditure isnt an exact science, 
though its important to do so as accurately as possible. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to expect Mr and Mrs R to prioritise the mortgage above other expenditure, 
particularly discretionary expenditure and unsecured debt. And while theres  room  for debate  
over whats  an acceptable  amount to spend each  month on particular sorts of expenditure, I 
think its clear  there was little prospect of Mr and Mrs R agreeing  to reduce their expenditure 
to a level Barclays thought acceptable  whichever of the slightly varying figures  Barclays 
used.
Mr and Mrs R asked Barclays to consider converting the mortgage to repayment terms. It 
didnt agree to do so  in part because it didnt consider the change affordable, especially 
once Mr R retired. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree that it was fair to reject  their application on this basis.  Mr R has 
referred to the FCAs rules, in particular the transitional arrangements following the mortgage 
market review. The rules are to be found in the FCAs Handbook, in the section headed 
MCOB. 
The transitional arrangements  are to be found in MCOB 11.7. MCOB 11.6 sets out that a 
lender must carry out a full affordability assessment, and a full assessment of interest only 
repayment strategy,  when entering  into or varying  a mortgage. The transitional 
arrangements in MCOB 11.7 say those requirements dont apply where the loan was taken 
out before  April 2014, has not been  increased since then, and the proposed new or varied 
loan is in the borrowers best interests. 
Again, nothing in this or any other part of MCOB says that a lender must grant an application 
for a term extension.  All the transitional  arrangements do is say that a lender need not refuse 
a request on the grounds of affordability  or lack of repayment strategy  if the change  is 
Ref: DRN34046964otherwise in the borrowers best interests.  But even if it is, an application can still be refused 
on other grounds.
In particular, Mr R has said that the interest rate stress test found in the affordability 
assessment doesnt  need to be applied  either because of the transitional  arrangements, or 
because it wouldnt be necessary if Barclays agreed a fixed interest  rate of five years.
The affordability assessment rules  say that a stress  test over a minimum of five years,  not 
over five years, is required. They also say that a stress test need not be carried out where a 
borrower takes a five year fixed interest  rate. However, since  an extension on repayment 
terms would  go far into Mr and Mrs Rs retirement, I think  it would be reasonable for Barclays  
to consider whether they could afford  that over longer than five years. 
Mr Rs right that an affordability assessment need not be carried  out at all under the 
transitional arrangements  but the rules dont say that one must not be done.  They  say that 
Barclays doesnt need to do where  its satisfied the change to the mortgage is otherwise in 
Mr and Mrs Rs best interests.  In my view, it wouldnt be in their best interests to convert the 
mortgage to repayment terms and extend it until Mr R is 85 years old without  considering 
whether they could  afford the higher payments  that would result.
In any case, I dont think Barclays has refused an extension on repayment terms because of 
affordability. Its considered an extension as part of looking at the options.  It had concerns 
about whether  doing so would be affordable. But that wasnt the only reason for not granting 
what Mr and Mrs R wanted. 
Ive said extending  the term without thinking  about whether it would be affordable wouldnt 
be in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests.  But I dont think affordability is the only factor  that goes 
to best interests.  In my view, a wider assessment of all the circumstances is needed to 
decide whether  any particular  change  is in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests. That includes other  
options they have for repaying  the mortgage  on interest only terms  now, or at some  future  
time  and I think the information Barclays asked for in this respect was reasonable.
And even  if it could be shown that an extension  either on interest only or repayment terms 
 was in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests,  that wouldnt be the end of the matter either. The 
rules require Barclays to take into account  their best interests,  and say that refusing a 
change based  on affordability thats otherwise be in their best interests might be unfair.  But 
the rules dont say that an application  of this sort must  be granted.  In other  words,  they 
constrain how Barclays  should  consider what to do  but dont prescribe the outcome.
Ive taken all that into account. I think its debatable whether a longer term extension is in Mr 
and Mrs Rs best interests. They can afford what theyre paying now.  But when they retire 
and their income falls, that will become more difficult. Theres no guarantee that the 
problems theyre having  selling their property abroad will get any better over time  and they 
might get worse. It seems  they do have other options to raise the funds to repay the 
mortgage, including selling this property or another property, as well as capital tied up in Mr 
Rs business. 
And its also fair to say that Barclays lent this money in the original expectation that it would 
be paid back in 2014  which Mr and Mrs R agreed to do at the time. Theres  a cost to 
Barclays in not having back capital it has lent and expects to receive, even if interest 
continues to be paid in the meantime.  If Mr and Mrs R can pay back  their mortgage then, all 
other things  being  equal,  the starting  point is that they should do so.
Ref: DRN34046965While not everything has gone as smoothly as Mr and Mrs R might  have wished, I think that 
overall Barclays has acted fairly  here. It agreed  to give Mr and Mrs R a further five years  to 
repay their mortgage when the term originally expired. When Mr and Mrs R couldnt keep to 
the agreed plan,  it wanted to explore other  options.  But, in part because of this complaint, 
things have now reached the point  where the end date of the original five year extension is 
fast approaching in any case  and Mr and Mrs R have maintained that they always  
understood that they would need  to repay the capital in August 2019 as the key plank of the 
five year agreement.  So I hope that Mr and Mrs R will now be in a position to repay the 
mortgage at that point.  If they no longer can, theyll need to have further discussions about a 
way forward with Barclays. But I dont  think its acted unfairly  to date, and so I dont think  it 
would be fair to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3404696