K822xcomplaint
Miss E is unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has declined her claim for
flood damage under  her buildings insurance policy.
When I refer to L&G I'm also referring to any of its appointed representatives.
background 
Miss E's house was damaged by a flood in December 2015.  The areas affected were an
under-stairs cupboard, the kitchen and the dining room.
L&G accepted the claim as flood is covered under  the buildings  insurance  policy. It
appointed an expert in early 2016  to assess Miss Es house and dry the affected  areas.  A
dehumidifier was used  to dry out the under-stairs  cupboard.  An injection drying technique
and fogging decontamination was used to dry out the sub floor void in the kitchen  and dining
area. I will refer to that as fogging. This was carried out via the air brick vents at either end of
the house.
Miss E was concerned that the fogging technique  used  wouldnt be adequate in the
circumstances and wouldnt dry out the sub floor void. Because  of Miss Es concerns, L&G
sent its expert to her house  again  a couple  of months later. Miss Es partner was present at
this visit. A camera was inserted into the sub floor void and it was found  to be dry.
In March 2017 Miss E noticed  damp appearing in the places that had previously  been
affected by the flood  in 2015. She contacted L&G as she felt the drying  of the house hadnt
been done correctly by its experts. L&G appointed another expert to visit Miss Es house and
conduct a further  assessment of the damage. This expert felt initially  that the first attempt at
drying the house had been inadequate but he would like to carry out further  tests.
Further drying equipment  was installed  in the under-stairs  cupboard in June 2017.  Floor
hatches were required  to be cut in the kitchen and dining area and it was a further couple of
months before this work  was completed. At that time the expert re-visited  Miss E and used
the floor hatches  to send warm dry air into the sub floor void.  He agreed to return ten days
later to assess the moisture levels.
When he returned there had been no change in the house following the drying. So the 
expert decided to carry out salt tests. The results of these tests showed  a high level of 
nitrates in the water, indicating  a problem with the damp proof course  (DPC) or rising  damp  
rather than flood water being present. As he felt it wasnt  related to the original flood,  the 
expert removed the drying equipment and wasnt able to issue  a drying certificate. L&G 
declined Miss Es claim.
Miss E wasnt satisfied with this and complained. She had an independent  report done which
she felt confirmed the house was still suffering from high moisture  levels  because  of the
flood and the initial inadequate  drying procedures. L&G didnt agree and said the report
confirmed Miss Es house did not have a DPC  and the rising  damp had occurred because  of
a rise in the ground water levels and inadequate protection between  the sub floor void and
the soil.
L&G offered  to send  their expert to Miss E again  and she could arrange to have her expert
present too. Depending on the findings  of that inspection, L&G also offered to make  a
contribution up to a maximum of £1,000  provided Miss E had a chemical DPC installed
Ref: DRN39629802.
Miss E remained unhappy with L&G and arranged for a further  report  to be carried  out on
her house.  This report suggested the existing  DPC  may have been compromised by the
flooding. Miss E went back to L&G with these findings and asked for all the damage to be
rectified as her house did have a DPC and the report confirmed it. L&G didnt agree - it felt
that its previous  suggestion was the best way to try and move the claim forward.
Miss E brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed with Miss E and felt that
the final report shed  had done proved that a DPC was present and had been  compromised
by the flooding. Because of that she felt L&G hadnt  carried out a lasting and effective repair.
She asked  it to carry out appropriate drying of Miss Es house, repair  any damage caused as
a result of the damp and to install  a DPC.  She also recommended  compensation of £200 to
Miss E because of the trouble and upset shed  been  caused.
Miss E accepted  the recommendations  but L&G didnt.  It didnt think there was sufficient
evidence to suggest a lasting and effective repair hadnt been carried out. It said that, had it
been aware of Miss Es latest report before issuing its final response letter to her, it would
have made  the same  offer to inspect the area again and make a maximum contribution  of
£1,000 provided  Miss E had a chemical DPC installed. So it would like the opportunity  now
to further inspect the house and complete further  tests on the water  that is present.
As L&G didnt agree  it was passed  to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 June 2019.  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to ask L&G to
do something more, but not what the investigator recommended.  Ill explain why.
L&G accepted that the initial  damage  to Miss Es house was caused  following a flood. So the
only things I need  to consider in this case are whether the initial  drying carried out in 2016
was adequate and whether the damp  seen in 2017  is as a continued result of the flood and
subsequent repairs,  or if it is a new issue  for Miss E. This is where  I disagree  with our
investigator.
Ill address the issue with the under-stairs cupboard first. This is situated a few inches below
the level of the rest of the ground floor and is where the majority of the water accumulated.
The damp returning a year later isnt an indication in itself that the drying was inadequate.
But I dont think enough has been  done to ensure the cupboard has received a lasting and
effective repair. The cupboard was declared dry by L&G in March 2016. L&G has said that
this room will always be subject to the ingress  of groundwater and any rising water  table
because of its depth in comparison to the rest of the ground floor and because  the cupboard
has never been tanked.
Miss E never had any problems with the cupboard being wet or damp  prior to the flood. And
the report received  by L&G in 2018 confirms that it cannot be established if the drying in the
under-stairs cupboard was effective in 2016.  There isnt enough evidence  for me to say that
Miss E has received a lasting and effective repair to the cupboard. In order  for Miss E to be
put back in exactly  the same position  as before the flood  occurred,  the cupboard should be
dry again. And for a lasting and effective repair to be carried  out it should be protected
against any future water ingress. So its reasonable to ask L&G to make sure the cupboard
is dried completely  and then to arrange for the cupboard to be tanked.
Ref: DRN39629803The situation  with the sub floor void is slightly different and there  is some  contradictory
information being provided. All experts  agree the damp was caused by a lack of or
ineffective DPC. So what I need to consider is whether L&G should have replaced this when
it completed the original  repairs.  From  the reports provided Im not persuaded that a DPC is
present at Miss Es house.  And I think this is the main cause of the rising  damp  now visible
in these areas. The salt tests carried  out in 2017 suggest that it isnt flood water  that is
penetrating Miss Es house. Its suggested that the damp is now being seen because the sub
floor void is directly above the soil beneath the house and there is no protection between the
pair.
I know that Miss E disputes this and refers L&G to the last report  she received. In that the
expert said .. .as the river flood  waters apparently came up to the level of the floorboards
within the under-stair  cupboard area and this may have compromised the adjacent solid floor
and existing damp proof course. (Appears to be bitumastic of type, however access  to the
lower wall areas was restrictive at the time of our survey). But this is in direct contrast to
Miss Es initial report which confirmed her house did not have a DPC installed. And Im not
persuaded by the latest report  as it doesnt confirm a DPC and it seems it was difficult for the
expert to make  a judgement on it due to viewing restrictions.
L&G has said that, if it had seen the latest  experts report  provided by Miss E, it would have
made the same offer as it has now. Its offered  to send an expert  to Miss Es house again
and to meet there with Miss Es own expert. More salt tests will be carried out so that the
type of water  can be determined and agreed upon. From those results, L&G can decide the
next steps for the claim.  At present  its said that if the salt tests  confirm the water to be as a
result of rising ground water as opposed  to the flood, it will make  a contribution of up to a
maximum of £1,000 to help dry the house  provided  Miss E installs a chemical  DPC at her
own cost. I think thats reasonable at the moment due to the current  uncertainty about the
nature of the water and the protection between the sub floor void and the soil.
During the course of our investigation Miss E has told the investigator  that her electricity
costs for the drying in 2017 havent been reimbursed to her. And the holes made in her floor
havent been rectified. Im recommending that L&G reimburse Miss Es electricity costs. The
holes in the floor will be useful for the further tests, but Im recommending  that L&G put the
floor back  in the position it was in prior to the holes being made, once the final tests  have
been completed.
L&G responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. 
Miss E also responded. She said that L&G never checked for a DPC.  It was only her experts 
that did. And even  though the first report she got suggested there  wasnt  a DPC present, the 
subsequent report  from a reputable company suggested there was one. So Miss E is 
confused why no-one is saying with any certainty  that a DPC is present at the house. 
Miss E also queried the salt test results.  She doesnt  think  anyone  has tested the salts and 
the nitrates could be present in flood  water too. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN39629804Miss E has said that L&G never looked  for a DPC. And her final report proves that a DPC is 
present. But Ive explained in my provisional decision why Im not persuaded by this or that a 
DPC is present.  There are contradictory  reports and information regarding the presence of a 
DPC and I think its fair to get a definitive  answer to this now.  
With regard to the salt tests, L&G has confirmed  that the salts were  tested in 2017 and the 
results suggested it wasnt flood water penetrating Miss Es house. I have no reason  to 
dispute this and its reasonable to now have further tests done  to determine the nature of the 
rising water.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Miss Es complaint. Im telling Legal  & General Insurance 
Limited to:
 arrange  a further  report by its expert,  with Miss Es expert also present;
 arrange  for the under-stairs cupboard  to be dried and tanked;
 repair the holes in Miss Es floor once  the final tests have been done;
 pay Miss E £20.46 for the electricity usage if this has not already been settled. It
should add 8% simple  interest to this amount from the date of the drying in 2017 to
the date of settlement.*
*lncome tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Legal & General Insurance  Limited
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Miss E how much has been taken off.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should give Miss E a tax deduction certificate if she asks
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.  
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3962980