K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains he was unable to access his Halifax Share  Dealing  Limited  (HSDL) account, 
meaning he couldnt trade.
background
Mr D got locked out of his HSDL account,  so tried to retrieve  his password. He called HSDL 
as he wasnt getting the emails  with his new password. HSDL told him some of its emails 
werent getting through to his particular email provider (A). It offered to send  him his new 
password in the post, and reminded him he could still place trades over the phone.
Mr D complained. He wasnt happy  HSDL  couldnt send emails to him because he used A 
for his emails. And he noted  he received emails from other entities within  HSDLs  larger  
group of companies. He thought HSDL should  have  let him know  once it knew there  was a 
problem emailing customers  who used  A. He asked HSDL to compensate  him.
One of our investigators  looked into things and didnt think  HSDL had done anything  wrong.  
She thought  the problem with Mr D receiving HSDLs emails  seemed to be to do with A and 
its systems, not HSDL.  She didnt think it was HSDLs fault Mr D couldnt  trade.  So she didnt 
think any compensation was warranted.  
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He thought this must be an 
HSDL problem because  he got emails  from other  group companies. He said HSDL hadnt  
acted in his interests  or treated him fairly. He wasnt happy with using phone  trading as an 
alternative, as it took longer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded the problems Mr D encountered  in accessing his trading account online  
were HSDLs fault. So, like our investigator, I dont think it needs  to compensate  him.
Mr D got locked out of his account, and when HSDL  emailed him a new password he didnt 
receive it. I dont think either  of those things were within HSDLs control. I know  Mr D has 
said he received  emails from other group companies  to his A email  address. But that doesnt 
mean the problems  were  at HSDLs end.
HSDL has confirmed some of its emails, to some of its customers with A email  addresses,  
havent been received. But some have. Its said it doesnt get any bounce  back notification 
of which  emails do and dont get through.
So on balance I think this is more  likely  an issue with A blocking  some of HSDLs  emails 
than anything to do with HSDLs own systems. And given the sporadic nature of the problem 
I dont think its unreasonable that HSDL didnt inform Mr D of it in advance.
What HSDL did do, was let Mr D know about it when he was trying to update  his password. 
And it offered to send the password by post instead, in line with its terms and conditions.  It 
also let Mr D know he could trade over the phone while he was waiting for his new 
Ref: DRN31900622password. While I appreciate this might have been  more time consuming than trading online,  
I think it was a reasonable alternative  for HSDL to have provided.
Overall, I dont  think HSDL contributed to Mr D being unable to access his online account 
while he waited for a new password to arrive in the post. And I think it dealt with him in the 
way Id expect  when he raised the issue  explaining what the problem was, acting to send 
his password by another means and offering an alternative way to trade.
I understand Mr Ds frustration with how long it took to reset the password on his account, 
and I appreciate this is something that would  normally take a few minutes.  But as Ive 
explained I dont  think what  happened was something within  HSDLs control, and so I dont 
think theres anything  for HSDL to compensate Mr D for here. Therefore I make no award.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3190062