K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S)  set up a direct  debit  
to pay her credit card incorrectly,  and disclosed her credit card account  number  to another  
M&S customer in error. 
background
Miss S opened a credit card with M&S  and asked it to put in place  a direct debit to make  her 
monthly payments  from her M&S  bank  account.  She asked for the payment to be for the 
credit card balance in full each month.  
M&S later became aware that it set up the direct debit to claim payment from another  M&S 
customers bank account by mistake, so a payment was claimed  from this persons account 
instead of Miss Ss account. This also led to Miss Ss credit  card account number being  
shared with this person. M&S set up the direct debit to claim the minimum payment instead 
of the balance in full. And when the credit card was closed  down,  M&S  owed  Miss S a refund 
for a credit balance on the card  but it paid this into the other persons account  in error. 
Miss S was unhappy,  so she raised  a complaint with M&S. It said it reported the breach of 
Miss Ss information as its required to, and assured her that it had taken steps to ensure no 
information would be incorrectly shared  again.  M&S offered to close  down the credit  card 
and open a new one which, subject to her passing  an application process,  would mean   
Miss S would have  a different  credit card account number.
M&S said that Miss Ss credit file hasnt been  negatively impacted and, considering  all of her 
complaint points, paid her a total of £450 compensation. It later offered a further  £25 
compensation, because it had said shed  requested  the minimum payment to be made by 
the direct  debit, when  this wasnt  the case. 
Miss S remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it and found M&S had attempted to put right its mistakes and had offered 
reasonable compensation. 
Miss S disagreed, because she was looking to open  another credit card with a different 
provider as a result of what happened. So she doesnt think  the compensation was enough 
to take into account  that her credit file would be impacted by this. Nor did it account for the 
stress M&S  caused. Shes  worried the breach of information opened her up to an 
unnecessary risk. And the customer service  she received from M&S was unacceptable  so 
overall it should do more to put things right.
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to give a final decision, so the complaint has been 
escalated to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its not in dispute that M&S made 
mistakes here. So I must decide if what its done to put things right is enough. Having done 
so, Ive decided  that it is enough and therefore it doesnt need to do any more. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN38185842M&S accepts that it breached data protection  principles  by sharing Miss Ss credit card 
account number  with a third party.  It showed as a reference for the direct debit that was set 
up incorrectly, which meant  the third party was able to view it on their direct  debit list. M&S 
put this right by cancelling the direct debit  and removing the reference from the history of this 
direct debit list  therefore ensuring that the credit card number was no longer visible. M&S 
assured Miss S that the breach was reported  to the Information Commissioners Office as it 
was required to and within a reasonable amount of time. 
Nonetheless, I can understand  why Miss S might be worried about the potential risk posed to 
her as a result of this breach. And I appreciate that the situation caused her some distress. 
So Ive thought carefully about the risk and impact on her. 
Only having a credit card account number wouldnt allow  someone  to correctly answer the 
security questions M&S asks. In order to pass security and gain access  to the credit card, 
someone would need to have a host of information  about Miss S, such  as her name and 
address, or know her telephone  security  number  but no such  information was shared by 
M&S. 
Because of this, Im satisfied the information M&S incorrectly shared wouldnt have given  all 
that was needed to pass security and allow unauthorised access  to Miss Ss credit card.  The 
credit card is now closed, so its not possible for it to be misused. And Miss S hasnt 
mentioned any transactions that she didnt  recognise or dispute while it was open.  So 
although I do appreciate why Miss S may be concerned, I find that M&S was still protecting 
the security of her credit card as it should have, despite its mistakes.  
M&S tried to reassure Miss S by giving her the option of closing the credit  card and then 
immediately applying for a new one, which would  have  a different credit card account 
number. And said it would set up a new direct  debit that correctly followed her instructions.  
M&S recognised that it was important to Miss S that her credit  file wasnt  negatively  
impacted by what happened. So it agreed  that if she successfully applied  for a new credit 
card, it wouldnt have reported the information to credit reference  agencies that it would 
normally. I find this reasonable, because only one credit  application  would still have shown 
on Miss Ss credit file, which  wouldve  been accurate. 
Miss S turned down this option and instead said she was going to open a credit  card with a 
different provider. I can understand why she decided  this, as M&S  had made  mistakes  
previously. But because M&S put forward a reasonable alternative,  Im not persuaded it was 
responsible for any impact on Miss Ss credit file as a result of this decision. 
The payment that was claimed in error from the third partys bank account  had to be 
returned. So Miss S made a manual payment towards the credit  card,  but this was made 
shortly after the payment  due-date. M&S has said that Miss Ss credit  file hasnt been 
negatively impacted by this, which  I find fair, as it wasnt  Miss Ss fault that the direct debit 
didnt claim payment as it should have. 
Miss S made another payment  which  cleared  the full balance of the credit  card and left a 
small credit balance  owed to her. M&S did at first send this to the third partys bank account  
in error.  But it corrected this shortly  afterwards by paying it to Miss S, ensuring she received 
what she was entitled to. Miss S also wasnt charged any interest  while the credit card was 
open. 
Ref: DRN38185843So overall, Im satisfied that Miss S hasnt lost out financially as a result  of what  happened.  
And I find M&S has made  a fair attempt to return her to the position  she would have been in 
but for the mistakes.  
Turning to the concerns Miss S has raised  about  the customer  service she received, Ive 
listened to the relevant call recordings and it strikes me that that M&S  could  have explained 
things to her clearer than it did. However, in the circumstances, I find the £475  in total that 
M&S has offered  to be reasonable compensation  so Im not asking it to award any more.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I understand Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has already  offered Miss S a total of 
£475 compensation, which I find fair and reasonable.  
So Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should pay Miss S a total of £475, if it hasnt 
already done so, within 28 days of receiving notice from us of her acceptance of this 
decision, failing which interest will start to accrue  on this sum  or on any unpaid proportion  
 at the simple  rate of 8% a year (less  any tax properly deductible)  until the date of payment. 
Miss S should note that if she accepts my decision and M&Ss offer, they will be legally 
binding and she wouldnt  be able to take further action over these matters.  If, however, she 
rejects the decision or doesnt reply on time, her legal rights will remain  intact  but itll then 
be strictly  a matter for M&S as to whether its offer remains open  for acceptance.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3818584