K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that American  Express  Services  Europe Limited has refused to pay him the 
cashback rewards he had earned  on his account.
background
Mr M decided to cancel his American Express account card as it was linked to another 
business. And due to a change in his place of work he could no longer use that other 
business. He says American  Express told him he would receive the cash back  rewards  that 
he had earned  by using the account which was valued at £250.  But when he cancelled the 
account, American Express told him he wouldnt receive the cashback. Mr M says he then 
tried to cancel his other American Express account as a test to see what he was told and 
says he was told he would lose the cashback.
Mr M says American Express has acted unfairly and hasnt been clear  in its dealings with 
him. He says it offered him £50 as a goodwill gesture that he refused but American Express  
paid it to him anyway.
American Express doesnt accept making a mistake and says it has no record  of the calls 
Mr M refers to. It says Mr M cancelled his account via an online web exchange and says its 
advisor told Mr M that he may forfeit any cash rewards by cancelling the account. American 
Express also says the account terms and conditions  make clear that cash rewards would be 
forfeited if the account is closed before the cashback rewards earned had been paid.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. The investigator looked  
at the online  conversation and thought  Mr M was told that cancelling the account  may result 
in the cashback reward being lost. The investigator  also thought  the account terms and 
conditions said the same thing and didnt  think there  was any evidence of earlier  calls and 
what may have been said. The investigator thought  the goodwill  gesture was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the online advisor used a term such  as accrued 
credit rather  than cashback which wasnt clear.  He would like the cashback  paid to him
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr M would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that those terms and conditions  make clear 
that  cashback rewards earned  but not paid would be lost if an account  is closed before the 
reward was paid. I have  also looked  at the online exchange in which  Mr M cancelled the 
account and I can see that he was told that cancelling your account may result in you 
forfeiting a cash reward.  So Im satisfied the information Mr M was given was clear and 
consistent and in those circumstances I find that American Express  hasnt made  a mistake 
by refusing to pay Mr M the cash reward of just over £235. I also cant  see any reference in 
that exchange to accrued  credit  as Mr M says.
Ref: DRN31679922I appreciate Mr M says that information  is inconsistent with what  he was told when he called 
American Express on different occasions. But American Express doesnt have a record  of 
those calls and so I cant be certain exactly what was said. I appreciate that due to Mr Ms 
occupation it is difficult for him to provide further details of when those calls were made. But 
in any event Im satisfied that at the point  Mr M cancelled his account,  he was told that he 
may forfeit his cash reward. And I also think that as that information was clear  Mr M ought to 
have checked  the position if that information conflicted with what  he says he was previously 
told.
I accept Mr M would not have cancelled the account if he had been aware of the 
implications. But I dont  think that means American Express  has acted unfairly or made  a 
mistake. For those reasons I cant fairly or reasonably order  American  Express  to refund the 
cash reward amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3167992