K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint against Santander UK Plc (Santander)  concerns the manner in which  his 
transactions made as Power of Attorney (POA) for his parents are reflected in their account 
statements.
background
Mr J holds POA  for his parents, allowing him to manage their Santander  accounts.  He was 
unhappy that the account statements didnt accurately reflect  that he was acting as POA.
Mr J says he has a business  account, which shows who transactions are made to, rather  
than who made them , but on his parents Santander accounts it shows whos  made them, 
and he wanted  to be clear as to why this was.
He said that for other reporting reasons, it was important that these statements showed 
more accurately what was happening.  And suggested that not doing so could be potentially 
problematic. 
He complained to Santander, and it said it couldnt change its process, which  it didnt think  
was incorrect. 
Mr J remained  unhappy, and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that she couldnt say Santander had 
treated Mr J unfairly, or made  any mistakes. She explained that while  Mr J might not agree 
with Santanders  processes,  as our service isnt its regulator (this is the Financial Conduct 
Authority  FCA), we couldnt  ask it to change its systems.
Mr J still disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold it. This is 
because I cant say Santanders made  a mistake, or dealt with Mr J unfairly.  
Im conscious that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties,  and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every individual point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Rather, its 
because Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument  to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I do appreciate Mr Js concerns. Hes articulated them very well. So what I did was asked 
Santander to clarify  what its process  was and why. Its response was:-
Ref: DRN31767382The computer shows the ID of the person who made the transactions.  The account 
statements show the debit  from one account  and the credit to the other account, this is a 
comprehensive record of the debit and credit transactions.  Mr J is asking  the bank to show  
the account holder (rather than the POA) made  the transaction which is not a true and 
factual record of events  as the account holder has appointed a POA to act on their behalf.
It also queried whether  the Office of the Public  Guardian (OPG) had raised  any concerns 
about this method of reporting  transactions. It wasnt  aware that it had.
I hope this further  explanation assists Mr J somewhat. My own view is that what Santanders 
saying doesnt  seem unreasonable. When a POAs  in place,  and is being  used by the 
attorney, the account holder themselves isnt making the transactions,  and it would be 
inaccurate to show that they were. I know that he wants Santanders statements to report 
transactions in the same  way his business account does. But I cant ask Santander to do 
that, as its not this services role.
Im afraid I cant uphold this complaint. But I hope  Ive explained why I think this is a fair 
outcome.
my final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3176738