K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly advised  them  to invest  too 
much of their money in complex and excessively risky products in January 2008.
background 
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 21 February 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs B accepted my decision. Barclays did not respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I am satisfied  this complaint  should be upheld, and with the compensation outlined.
I therefore instruct Barclays  to compare the return they received on each of their three  
investments (the £50,000  invested) with what they would have got if they had kept their 
money secure. Given they were prepared to lock this money  away  for at least  five years in 
order to achieve  a better rate than that offered via a standard deposit account, Barclays  
should use its own three year fixed-rate  bond  of 5.8% to calculate how much Mr and Mrs B 
could have earned during the first three  years. It should then use the Bank of Englands 
fixed-rate bonds  of 12 to 17 months  maturity to calculate returns  for the rest of the invested  
periods. If this comparison shows a loss or losses it should pay this and add 8% simple 
interest from the dates  of surrender of their investments to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33175912provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly advised  them  to invest too much of their 
money in complex and excessively risky products in January 2008.
background
When Mr and Mrs B met the advisor they were both retired.  Mr B had recently  got a £80,000 pay-off 
and this meant they had a total of £95,000 in savings. They appeared to have no investment 
experience.
The advisor  recommended they invest £50,000 - £10,000  in Barclays  dynamic fund,  £25,000 in a 
Norwich Union bond  and £15,000 in a Friends Provident  product. All three products offered a capital 
guarantee as long as they were held for five years or more.  They retained the latter two products for 
more than five years but surrendered the dynamic  fund before the recommended five year minimum,  
according to Barclays  in its Final Response Letter (FRL)  although this now appears to be incorrect.
The dynamic  fund, which offered a limited  capital  guarantee, provided a return  linked  to the 
performance of Barclays dynamic global index but with monies moved into cash  as and when the 
fund managers chose to do so. This product  did not benefit from the protection  provided  by the 
Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
In their complaint Mr and Mrs B said they were  advised to invest  this money  too soon after Mr B 
retired and without  consideration of the fact that they would be using  their savings to plug their income 
gap.
An investigator at this service felt the dynamic  fund was complex. Considering  Mr and Mrs B had no 
investment experience she didnt think enough was done to make sure they understood  what their 
£10,000 would be invested in and how it might, in theory, deliver a better return  than a deposit-based  
account. 
She also noted that in November 2009 99% of the fund was being held in cash so it did not deliver a 
better return than a deposit  account. She thought the suitability letter didn't explain that the investment 
needed to be held until January 2014 and it didnt make clear that the guarantee referred  to 100% of 
the highest net asset  value  achieved on 2 January 2009, the protected date. Given  Mr and Mrs Bs 
lack of investment  experience, she didnt believe they would have fully understood the nature of what 
was, in her view, a complex investment.
She proposed that Barclays pay compensation based on the returns Mr and Mrs B might have got via 
a more  suitable low risk investment, and outlined the formula that this service  normally  uses  in these  
circumstances.
Barclays said the advisor had provided  Mr and Mrs B with all the documentation and recommended 
they read it all. So it didnt accept that they would  not have understood how the investment worked.
Barclays subsequently accepted that the guarantee may not have been fully explained and agreed to 
the complaint being upheld. But it said that Mr and Mrs B were  looking for a capital guarantee for this 
portion of their money so redress should be based on a risk-free formula.
The investigator did not agree, saying that the advisors notes recorded Mr and Mrs B as looking for a 
low risk investment  and therefore redress should be on this basis.  Barclays said Mr and Mrs B had 
wanted a capital guarantee so redress could  not be based  on a formula involving  risk of capital loss.
Ref: DRN33175913It then responded,  saying  in effect  that it was now satisfied Mr and Mrs B had been given sufficient 
information and therefore the complaint should  not be upheld. It said the suitability letter referred to 
the guarantee  only applying at the 'interim  protection date' and this was covered in the prospectus  as 
well. The adviser would also have explained this to them verbally and they were therefore aware the 
protection only applied after a specific date.
It said the fund was closed and all investments fully redeemed on the 30 March 2012. The ISA funds  
were moved to a non-interest bearing  cash account to protect the client's ISA allowance and Mr and 
Mrs B were  sent a letter  asking for instructions. They were then sent the non-ISA  funds in cash. So 
they didn't  cash  in the investment as they did not understand  the guarantee but because the fund was 
closed and they did benefit from that guarantee. In fact they made  a profit  so the product did what 
they were told it would  even if there  was any confusion over whether the guarantee would  apply after 
five or six years.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators concerns about how far the advisor full explained the nature of his 
recommendations. But I have  much broader concerns about the recommendations.
According to the suitability letter, the advisor  asked  Mr and Mrs B a series  of questions designed to 
elicit their willingness to take a risk with their money, or at least £50,000 of it. In my view,  they did not 
indicate any desire  to take a risk via any of their answers. He then concluded that they were cautious 
investors i.e. that they were prepared to take a low/modest risk with their money. I do not know how 
he reached this conclusion.
He also said: 
You are likely to be comfortable  with investments that have  some risk in order to reach  your 
investment objectives. You want  better returns than those offered  by a bank or building society  
savings account  and are prepared to put a limited  part of your money  in stock market investments.  
While the possibility of small fluctuations in your wealth  doesn't bother you, you would  prefer  
investments that are unlikely to fall substantially  in value  by the end of your intended  investment 
period. You would be happier with a steadier  but lower  rate of growth  than a higher but more volatile 
one, and you accept that this may limit the potential for your money  to grow, and that there is a 
possibility that it may not maintain its spending power.
I also do not know how he reached this conclusion as none of the questions  was designed to assess  
whether they wanted to risk getting  no return on their money. I have no doubt  that Mr and Mrs B 
would have agreed with the statement: You want better returns than those offered by a bank or 
building society savings account  who wouldnt? But this does not indicate they wanted to risk 
getting no return.
Ive seen no evidence that the advisor fully and fairly  explained that by putting  this substantial  portion  
of their capital  into these  products they risked getting no return  on their money, something which 
could result in its falling  substantially  in value by the end of your intended investment period. If, for 
example, inflation had averaged  5% a year during the period, the real value of their money  could fall 
by a quarter  if they got no return at the end of the five years.
Given Mr and Mrs B had no investment experience  I think it was essential  for the advisor to have 
pointed this out, particularly given that the risk questions did not tackle  this key issue.  I have seen no 
evidence that he did spell out this significant drawback with all three products. In the absence  of this I 
dont believe Mr and Mrs B were in a fully informed position to decide  whether  to go ahead  with the 
recommendations.
Ref: DRN33175914I have therefore considered   on the balance of probabilities  whether  Mr and Mrs B would, on 
balance, have  gone  ahead if offered  a fair comparison between the returns  they could  have got via 
comparable interest-guaranteeing  products such as fixed-term  bonds in comparison with what was on 
offer via these  three  structured  products.
As these products offered  no guaranteed return, and the real possibility  of getting no return  and 
thereby a significant fall in the value of their money, I think Mr and Mrs B would have wanted to feel 
that there was at least the potential  for a significantly higher return  or profit from these products to 
even consider risking getting no return at all. Even then I am not persuaded they would necessarily 
have taken such  a risk.
In fact, an analysis of the key investor  information  suggests  anything but. Both the Norwich Union and 
the Friends  Provident documentation provide three potential growth figures  over the five year 
investment period  based on regulator-approved projections. If one takes the middle growth  
illustration  something which I believe  many  customers would reasonably look to  as a basis for 
assessing what  sort of return they might get, this shows that a 6% overall growth  in the underlying  
investments would only deliver a 4.7% and a 3.9%  annual return respectively  to Mr and Mrs B after 
charges.
In other words, if the underlying investment  had grown according to the middle of the three regulator-
approved growth  forecasts  Mr and Mrs B would  get these returns. But if there was little or no growth  
they would get nothing.
By contrast,  Barclays  was offering three year fixed-rate bonds  guaranteeing a return of 5.8% per year 
i.e. with no risk. Other  banks  and building societies  were  offering  five year fixed-rate bonds offering up 
to 6.2% per annum guaranteed.
Given Mr and Mrs Bs prime objective was to achieve a better return that than available via deposit 
accounts and were willing  to lock away their money for five years, I think the advisor ought to have 
explained what was on offer via its own fixed-rate bonds, which did not involve any risk of getting  no 
return. As he did not do so, I dont believe  Mr and Mrs B were in a fully informed position to decide  
whether to go ahead with his recommended products.
If he had done so, I think  it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would have taken the risk of getting no return 
when they could be guaranteed 5.8% a year for three years, particularly  given his suitability letter 
offers little evidence that we were looking to take any risk with their money.
I recognise that returns on the two products above could  have exceeded  the quoted 4.7% and 3.9% 
figures. But given Mr and Mrs Bs background and circumstances, I am satisfied  on the balance of 
probabilities  that they would  have  chosen  a product  with a healthy guaranteed return  rather  than the 
unguaranteed, uncertain returns on the recommended products which could easily  prove  lower even  if 
the investments  succeeded. 
Potential returns on Barclays  dynamic  fund were based on a more  complex calculation. I agreed with 
the investigator that this was a complex and complicated product with potential returns based on a 
formula which  I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B would have understood from what  the advisor 
said. If Barclays disputes  this, I will outline my many concerns about the complexity of this product  in 
my further decision.
I also think  it was not appropriate to recommend  a product not covered the FSCS, particularly  given 
Mrs B had no investment  experience  and would  probably  not have fully understood the significance  of 
this drawback  or the fact that they could easily have put their money  in a suitable product with such  
protection.
I note the full prospectus says this investment is: only suitable for investors  who are able to assess 
the merits and risks of such an investment and have sufficient resources  to be able to bear any losses  
that may result  from such an investment.
Ref: DRN33175915I agree with this. 
I also noted  it states:  
The Fund  is therefore exposed  to general  market movements and trends in equities, fixed income,  
commodity and property  markets, which are occasionally partially affected by irrational factors. Such 
factors may lead to a more  significant and longer lasting decline in prices  affecting the entire market.
Given Mr and Mrs Bs clearly stated resistance to these sorts of risks,  as evidenced by their 
responses to the risk questionnaire,  I am satisfied that this was a wholly unsuitable recommendation.
In considering the appropriate basis for compensation, I believe that if Mr and Mrs Bs attitude  to risk 
had been properly explored, it might  have  become  clear that they would be willing to take a small risk 
with some of their £50,000   although  not via these products. But in the absence of such evidence, I 
am satisfied  that compensation should be based on the assumption  that they would  have preferred to 
take no risk with any of their £50,000 if fully informed  about the risks posed by these three products.
I therefore  currently intend  to instruct Barclays to compare the return  they received on each product  
with what they would have  got if they had kept their money secure. Given  they were prepared  to lock 
this money away for five years in order to achieve a better rate than that offered via a deposit 
account, Barclays should  use its own three year fixed-rate bond of 5.8% to calculate how much Mr 
and Mrs B could have  earned during the first three years. It should  then use the Bank of Englands 
fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity  to calculate returns for the rest of the five year period. If 
this comparison shows a loss or losses  it should pay this and add 8% simple interest from the dates 
of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3317591