K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2005. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Mrs C applied for a credit card. It gave  her accident, sickness  and 
unemployment protection. And it included some  life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays says Mrs C would have been  given the choice of whether  to take out PPI or 
not. Whilst I havent seen examples of the screen Mrs C would have seen and 
completed online, the bank has provided the credit agreement she was sent after 
making her online application. This included the wording Yes, I want my account to 
be covered against unemployment, accident, sickness  and death   so I think its 
most likely she selected PPI online.  She signed  this form to confirm  she wanted  to go 
ahead on the terms set out. So overall I think its most likely Barclays made it clear to 
Mrs C that PPI was optional and she chose to take it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C, so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. It was up to her to decide, given the other ways she had to make her 
repayments if she wasnt working.
 
Its possible Barclays didnt give Mrs C all the information about the PPI that she 
needed before she made her decision.  But it seems Mrs C chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy was competitively  priced  and 
apparently affordable.  Mrs C was entitled  to six months full pay and six months half 
pay if she was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits 
and for up to 12 months. Mrs C told us she had a redundancy  entitlement.  The PPI 
would have paid out in addition  this, allowing her to protect  any lump sum 
redundancy payment, giving increased financial stability  at an already difficult time. 
So, on balance, given  her circumstances  and the policy terms, I think it unlikely 
Mrs C wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:  
Ref: DRN37719442Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
The PPI is still active on Mrs Cs credit card account  so she should  contact the bank if she 
wishes to cancel it.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays 
Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3771944