K820x#14complaint
Mrs C and the estate  of Mr C complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to be used  with their mortgage. The 
loan was jointly held and both Mr and Mrs C were covered for the PPI. For simplicity I will 
refer to Mrs C and the estate of Mr C as Mr and Mrs C throughout the decision. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy in 1996.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy and it 
would have covered Mr and Mrs C if they couldnt work through  accident, sickness or if they 
lost their jobs.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I explain why below.
Ive considered whether Nationwide gained the consent of Mr and Mrs C for the PPI and 
whether it made it clear that the policy was optional. Mr and Mrs C say the PPI was added to 
the account without their consent. 
I have considered the mortgage application  form and note that Mr and Mrs C had to 
complete a separate section of the form to get the cover. Amongst other things they had to 
specify what benefit level they wanted and what split of benefit they wanted and then had to 
complete a direct debit  mandate that was separate to the one for the mortgage and they had 
to sign for the cover, and this was separate to the signature they gave agreeing to the 
mortgage. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its 
more likely that Nationwide  wouldve  made Mr and Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional  
and that they chose  to take it, even  though  Mrs C may not remember that now, many years  
later. 
Mr and Mrs C and Nationwide agree that Nationwide  didnt recommend the policy to them. 
This means  that Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them,  instead it had 
to provide enough information for them to decide whether they wanted to take it out. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it seems 
they were eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like they were affected  by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that whilst  their initial  sick 
pays were good they dropped significantly after six months. And they told us that they had 
no savings they could have relied  on in that circumstance. This policy could have paid out for 
up to 12 months in the event of long term ill health  or if Mr or Mrs C lost their job. 
Ref: DRN38771422So thinking  about all of that and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home,  I think the policy would have  been useful to them  if something went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Nationwide  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3877142