K820x#14Complaint
Ms H and Mr Y complain  that Calpe Insurance Company Limited  rejected their claim under 
their motor insurance policy for the theft of their car. The policy  was also cancelled but no 
refund was given.
Background
Ms H took out a policy of insurance a car with Calpe with Mr Y as a named driver. The car 
was stolen from a driveway  overnight. 
Ms H reported the theft to the police and to Calpes  claim handler. In her conversation  with 
the claim handler, Ms H told them  the spare key was in the car when it was stolen.  Calpe 
declined the claim  by relying on an exclusion,  which they say means a claim for the theft of 
the insured car isnt covered if the insured  persons dont take reasonable care of it and if a 
key is left in it. 
Ms H cancelled the policy, as the car was not replaced, but Calpe didnt refund any of the 
premium. 
Ms H complained to Calpe who stated in their final response that they had acted in 
accordance with the terms  of the policy of insurance and had dealt with the claim in a fair 
and reasonable manner.  Ms H and Mr Y did not agree and brought the complaint to our 
service.
Having looked  at the CCTV  of the theft, read the statements and the policy documents, the 
investigators view was that the complaint  should  not be upheld. He thought  the spare key 
was left in the car, which meant  the exclusion in the policy was applicable and Calpe were 
entitled to reject the claim. 
Ms H didnt accept the investigators view, as she says a key was not left in the car and 
Calpe should  have paid the claim.  And shes argued  that if a key had been left in the car, the 
security system would have prevented it being locked with a different key, so it could  not 
have happened  as Calpe had thought.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill deal with the policy  cancellation. The policy was cancelled  by Ms H as the car was 
not replaced. This means  that a proportion of the years premium paid by Ms H should be 
refunded on a pro-rata basis,  as no claim had been  settled  in that year.  Calpe have now 
confirmed to me that this refund will be provided if this decision supports their rejection of Ms 
Hs claim. This will have an additional  8% simple interest added (calculated from the date of 
cancellation until the date of settlement).
Some of the evidence relating to the theft and the subsequent insurance claim is 
inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made my decision based  on what  I think  is more  likely 
than not to have  happened.  My decision  is the same as the investigators  for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN37365582The policy has the following terms (exceptions):
The Underwriters shall not be liable for
(n) Loss or damage to Your Car unless You do all You can to protect Your Car and keep it in 
a roadworthy condition. If You do not do this Your right to claim under Your policy  may be 
affected.
The policy then goes  on to state  what must be done:
You must:
(i) ensure the car is locked, windows, including sunroofs, are closed, and any required 
security devices are activated and all keys  and keyless  entry  system devices are removed 
when the car is left unattended.
It then states specifically it will not be liable for:
(o) Loss  or Damage if You have  not taken care to protect the Your  Car (as described 
above), or if it has been left unlocked or the Keys  left in Your Car or attached to it or left in 
the immediate  proximity  of it.
This means  if Ms H or Mr Y did leave a key in the car, and that this key was connected to the 
theft of it, Calpe could  be entitled  to reject their claim. I need to decide  if I think Calpes use 
of that exclusion  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
In Ms H and Mr Ys written statements, they both say there was only one key for the vehicle. 
And this was with Ms H, which means it cannot have been in the car at the time of the theft. 
However, I have listened to the call Ms H made to the claims handler when the theft was first 
discovered. The investigator included in his view a transcript of the relevant part of the 
conversation, so I dont  propose to repeat this. In summary, Ms H was on the line to the 
claims handler when Mr Y contacted her to say there was a second key that he kept in the 
car. He was specific and said it was with his watch in the car. 
Ms H has provided a signed letter  from the car dealer from whom the vehicle was bought. In 
this letter  the dealer  confirmed that the vehicle was only supplied with one key. This is strong 
evidence in support  of Ms H and Mr Ys position. However, when the investigator  contacted  
the dealer to confirm the contents of the letter, the dealer stated he wrote  there  was only one 
key as this was what was suggested to him by Mr Y. And that he in fact had no records to 
prove this and couldnt remember how many  keys were supplied  with the car. I think  it is 
likely that the dealer  wrote this letter after being requested  to by Mr Y and wrote what Mr Y 
asked him to write. For this reason, I think there  is enough doubt about  its contents to 
prevent me placing any weight on it.
Ms H has suggested that it is impossible  to lock the vehicle if a key is left in it. This is an 
important point. However, I have had an opinion  from a Jaguar Landrover (JLR) security 
expert who has said a key can be locked in the car, as the security  system makes it passive 
while the vehicle  is locked. This key is re-activated once the car is unlocked again.
Given the evidence  above, I think its more likely than not there  was a second key for the 
vehicle. And that this was kept in the car by Mr Y and was in there at the time of the theft.
Calpe have declined  the claim on the grounds  that the vehicle has not been sufficiently 
protected as a key was left in it. However,  for them to rely on this exclusion, I think to treat 
Ref: DRN37365583Ms H fairly, they need to show that it was more likely than not that this key assisted  in the 
theft of the vehicle. And I think they have done that. Ill explain why.
They have said the CCTV provided shows the thief finding the key and starting the car, 
before driving  away. I have considered  this footage  carefully.  The vehicle is somehow 
unlocked by the thief, as you can see the electric  external mirrors unfold and the internal 
light illuminate. Unless the thief has used a key to unlock the vehicle  (and this has not been 
suggested at any point)  I think the most  likely scenario is he has used an electronic  relay 
device to boost  the signal from the key inside the house to unlock the car. 
Once inside, the thief spent several  minutes  moving across from the front passenger  seat to 
the drivers position  and searching  the centre storage area and glovebox.  He appears to 
retrieve something and then immediately starts the engine and drives off.
Given the information from the expert  that the passive key is reactivated once the car is 
unlocked. And, given I think it is likely that the key was in the car, and the car is started 
immediately after something  appears to be found, I think  it is more likely than not it was the 
key that is found,  and this assisted the thief.
So, Im satisfied it is a fair and reasonable outcome to this case  to allow Calpe to rely on the 
abovementioned policy  terms to reject  Ms H and Mr Ys claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold Ms H and Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3736558