K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains Pepper (UK) Limited  (Pepper) unfairly charged him administration  and 
legal fees when he was in arrears.
background
In 2006 Mr E took out a 25 year repayment  mortgage of around £175,000 with Peppers 
predecessor lender. Pepper took over ownership and responsibility for the loan in 
around March 2015.
Mr Es solicitors  complained on his behalf to Pepper  about a higher lending  charge (HLC), 
fees and charges that had been  added to his account and the way in which interest had 
been calculated  on his mortgage. Mr E brought his complaints about the HLC and fees 
and charges to this service since Pepper didnt  resolve them.
Pepper said the complaint was out of time.  Another  ombudsman looked at that and came  
to a decision about what this service can and cant consider. He decided the complaint 
about the HLC had been brought too late and that we can only look at fees and charges 
added to Mr Es mortgage since 8 September 2011.
Our investigator considered whether those fees and charges were fair and reasonable. 
She thought  some of them werent  and should  be refunded to Mr E.
Pepper agreed to refund  some but not all of the fees and charges our investigator 
identified. Mr E didnt accept our investigators  opinion.  So, I reviewed everything afresh  to 
come to a decision about Mr Es complaint.
I recently issued a provisional decision  an extract of which follows.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have raised detailed arguments  about this complaint. Id like to reassure them 
that Ive looked carefully at what theyve said and considered the documents theyve 
provided. I dont think I need to set out all the points theyve made in this decision.  Instead 
Ill focus on what I consider to be the most relevant things  for me to consider in reaching a 
fair decision about Mr Es complaint.
In this decision Ill refer to the lender  as Pepper throughout - even though  some  of the 
actions I mention were  taken by its predecessor lender, Pepper took responsibility for 
them when it took over the loan.
The starting point  is the mortgage Mr E agreed to. Under the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage Mr E agreed to make  his contractual monthly payments (CMPs) on time 
each month. If he didnt, Pepper could add any costs and expenses it reasonably 
incurred in connection with the mortgage,  including administration  fees and legal costs. 
And it could  charge interest on those costs  and expenses.
The relevant  rules say any administration fees must be a reasonable estimate of the 
Ref: DRN39681122additional administration required  as a result of a customer being in arrears.  And any 
fees and charges have to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The level of the fees and charges  Pepper imposed  was set out in its tariffs of charges it 
sent to its customers from time to time. Im satisfied Mr E would have known what  they 
were and in any event theres no dispute  about  that, only whether they were  reasonably  
charged.
Pepper has applied  a number of fees and charges to Mr Es mortgage since  8 September 
2011  administration fees, solicitors  fees, debt counselling  fees and unpaid  cheque fees. 
Ill consider each in turn. But before doing so, I think its important to mention some 
background issues.
Mr E got into difficulties in paying  his mortgage soon after taking it out and Pepper 
had already got a suspended possession order from the court  before  September 
2011.
Unfortunately, the nature  of Mr Es job meant  he was often without  regular work,  
sometimes for long periods, which affected  his income and what he could afford to pay 
when.
In October  2011 Pepper was considering taking possession of Mr Es property. 
Peppers notes  record it had agreed many  payment arrangements  with Mr E, few of 
which hed managed to keep to, even though theyd often only required him to make 
the following  months payment.
In around April 2012, Pepper  agreed  to capitalise arrears of around £17,000 and fees 
and charges of around £4,000. It also converted the mortgage to part repayment, part 
interest only at that time. This meant  the arrears balance on Mr Es account was reduced 
to nil and his contractual monthly mortgage payments (CMP) went down. Unfortunately, 
Mr E wasnt  able to make  the adjusted payments and fell back into arrears  straight  away.
Mr E hadnt  had any stable work from around April 2012 onwards. I can see Pepper  had 
been working with him to try and come to an acceptable arrangement  to pay off the 
arrears and had held back from pressing ahead with court action.
In September  2012 Pepper  arranged some  debt counselling from a field agent but Mr E 
cancelled the appointment. Soon afterwards Pepper  decided  to take legal action when 
Mr E wasnt  able to make  any acceptable proposals  to pay off the arrears  which, by this 
time, were over three months.
By January 2013 Pepper had decided to go ahead with court  action. Mr E advised Pepper  
in February 2013  his daughter had been  in hospital for several months leading up to that 
time. I understand  this will have  been  a very difficult time for Mr E. But Pepper hadnt  been 
aware of that previously, and I understand  Mr E wasnt able to provide Pepper  with the 
evidence it asked for to confirm his daughters condition.  Pepper was also concerned  Mr E 
had given it inconsistent  information about  his employment, which I think the evidence  Ive 
seen supports. So, on balance, I dont think Pepper behaved unreasonably in continuing 
its court action.
In May 2013  the court suspended  possession  of Mr Es property if he paid a lump  sum plus 
his CMP and an additional sum each  month.  Unfortunately, once again, Mr E was unable  to 
Ref: DRN39681123keep up with the payments. From then on Pepper continued to work with Mr E to manage 
his account without resorting to further  legal proceedings, even though his arrears  were 
generally increasing despite the efforts I can see Mr E was making to pay.
From around February 2015 onwards Mr E managed  to make more  regular  payments  and 
to bring his arrears  down  for a time.  But they were still significant. And Mr E had further  
difficulties paying  during  2018 and 2019.  More recently he agreed a payment deferral with 
Pepper in line with the FCA guidelines  set in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Overall, until more  recently after Mr E brought  his complaint, I think there  has been good 
communication between  Pepper and Mr E as Id expect. Pepper  regularly contacted  Mr E 
to discuss his financial situation and assessed  his income and expenditure at appropriate 
times. Although Mr Es said he felt Pepper was harassing him, I havent seen any evidence 
the level of contact was more  than Id expect it to be given Mr E was consistently  in 
arrears. Pepper contacted  Mr E and wrote  to him in line with the requirements placed upon  
it by the mortgage  rules  where someone  is in arrears.
Bearing what Ive said in mind, I think all but the fees I refer to below have been 
reasonably charged  to Mr E. They are in line with the tariff of charges and, given the level 
of work Pepper was carrying  out to manage Mr Es account when he was in arrears,  I think 
they are reasonable in amount. I think the fees I mention below  should  be refunded.
Administration fees
Peppers explained that its predecessor  lender  raised charges when a CMP wasnt  paid 
between the time it was due and the following  month. So, a payment due between the 8th of 
the due month and 7th of the following month would lead to a charge in the middle of the 
following month if the payment wasnt made  on time.
I understand Pepper used a slightly different timescale, but it has reversed 
any administration fees it raised so I dont need to think about that.
Peppers agreed to refund  fees of £40 charged in January and February 2012, April,  
November and December  2013, May and August 2014 and February 2015, which our 
investigator felt had been unfairly charged  on the basis that the CMP had been paid on 
time in line with the process Peppers predecessor lender used. I agree with her.
Peppers agreeable to waiving the fee charged in mid-March 2012 provided it isnt 
penalised for doing so, as it doesnt agree  it was wrongly charged. I agree payment for the 
amount falling due in February wasnt made on time.  Pepper says Mr E didnt mention he 
wouldnt be able to pay on a call that took place  on 4 March, and it couldnt get hold of him 
on 6 and 7 March. I can see Mr E was discussing several things with Pepper  around this 
time, including  why he kept being  charged  fees,  a refund of fees he thought  was due and 
capitalisation of his arrears which hed been  waiting to hear about and happened shortly 
afterwards. His partner  spoke to Pepper  on 8 March, explained  thered been  a mess up 
with Mr Es wages and tried to make a payment on his behalf.  So, Mr E was engaging with 
Pepper, trying to pay and waiting  for Pepper  to confirm that the capitalisation could go 
ahead. On balance, in the circumstances, I think it is fair to refund  the March  2012 charge.
Solicitors fees
Under the terms of the mortgage, Pepper is allowed to charge  Mr E the costs it incurs  in 
Ref: DRN39681124any legal  proceedings relating to the mortgage and in exercising or enforcing its legal rights  
under the mortgage, provided  they are reasonably incurred.
Im satisfied from the documents Ive seen that Pepper incurred solicitors fees for the work 
its solicitors did in taking  action to recover the arrears and repossess the property in 
October and November 2011 and in May 2013.  I think the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage allowed  Pepper to charge those fees.  And I think  they were reasonably incurred.
As Ive mentioned,  Mr Es arrears were  very significant by 2011.  I think  it was reasonable 
for Pepper to engage its solicitors at that time given Mr Es conduct of the account.
In May 2013, as Ive also said, I think it was reasonable  for Pepper to go back  to court.  
Mr E had fallen into arrears again  and he hadnt  made any acceptable  proposals  to pay off 
the arrears. The information hed given  Pepper about his employment was inconsistent. 
And although hed explained his daughter had been  in hospital, he hadnt  mentioned  that 
in previous months when hed been struggling  to pay. And he hadnt provided any 
evidence to support  what hed told Pepper, which I think it was reasonable for Pepper to 
ask for. So, I think it was fair to charge Mr E these fees.
Pepper also incurred  solicitors fees in December 2017 of £348 and April 2018 of £1,131  
in responding  to concerns  raised  by solicitors  instructed by Mr E. Our investigator felt it 
was unfair  for Pepper to charge those fees to Mr E. Having  considered  everything 
carefully, I disagree with our investigator and Ill explain  why.
Peppers argued that its allowed to charge the fees to Mr E under the terms of the 
mortgage because  they were incurred when Mr Es solicitors threatened to take legal action 
against it. I agree that solicitors fees incurred in those circumstances can be charged under  
the terms and conditions of the mortgage  provided  they are incurred reasonably.
I can see Pepper gave  some thought to whether or not it could deal with the concerns as 
a complaint but decided to refer it to its solicitors. On balance  I think  it was reasonable for 
Pepper to do so.
Pepper argues  the correspondence  Mr Es solicitor sent shows Mr E was making a legal 
claim rather than making a complaint. Mr Es solicitors letter  of 8 September 2017  was 
headed Letter of Claim. It set out clearly that it should be treated as a letter  of claim 
and that Mr Es solicitors  intended to deal with the matter in line with court  protocols. The 
letter claimed Pepper was in breach of contract  for failing  to calculate interest charges 
and payments as it should have done under  the terms  of the mortgage. And a detailed 
audit report commissioned by the solicitors was enclosed.
Peppers solicitors had to correspond with Mr Es solicitors several times to get to the 
bottom of exactly  what they were claiming on Mr Es behalf. And I think it was reasonable 
for Pepper  to ask its solicitors to deal with that correspondence given the legal issues  it 
raised.
Bearing everything in mind I think Pepper reasonably incurred  the solicitors  fees 
in December 2017 and April 2018 and was entitled  to charge them  to Mr E.
Debt Counselling fees
Pepper has charged Mr E twice  for debt counselling fees when it arranged to send a 
Ref: DRN39681125field agent to discuss his financial situation.
I think it was reasonable  for Pepper  to instruct a field agent in October  2011  when Mr Es 
arrears were  around £17,000.  It wrote to Mr E letting him know  this was happening  and 
clearly set out what the costs would be. Mr E had the chance to cancel the appointment 
within a certain time to avoid paying  anything. Since he failed to do so, I think it was fair 
and reasonable for Pepper  to charge  the fee even though it seems the appointment didnt 
go ahead.
Pepper wrote to Mr E again in September 2012 to let him know  it was arranging another  
field agent visit. I think it was fair to take this action  as Mr Es arrears  had started  to 
increase again  after earlier arrears had been capitalised. Again, the letter clearly stated the 
costs involved and how to avoid them by cancelling with a certain time. Mr E didnt cancel, 
so I think it was fair and reasonable  for Pepper  to charge Mr E the fee.
Unpaid cheque fees
I agree  with our investigator that Pepper should  refund  the £25 fee it charged when Mr E 
tried to make a payment through a business  account in June 2012. I dont think Mr E 
appreciated that Pepper wouldnt accept this cheque  as he rang to ask why it was 
rejected.
Although the terms and conditions of the mortgage said payments must be made by direct  
debit, Mr E had been making manual payments and may not have  understood he needed 
to make them himself, rather than arranging for someone else to do it on his behalf. In any 
event, I think any additional  work  Pepper had to do to sort this out should be covered by 
the £40 it also charged  that month  for arrears administration.
Compensation
Mr E feels  hes been unfairly treated by Pepper  and thinks he should  be compensated 
for that. I do empathise with Mr Es difficult financial situation and I dont underestimate 
the worry Mr E will have  gone through when his daughter was unwell.
However, for the reasons  Ive explained above, I think Pepper has done  what  it can to 
work with Mr E to help him manage his financial difficulties over a long period of time.  Its 
kept in regular contact with him, capitalised his arrears  and changed the payment type of 
the mortgage to help him, and it has only taken  court action as a last resort. Overall, I 
think Pepper has treated  Mr E fairly  and reasonably  in all the circumstances. So, I dont  
intend to award  Mr E any compensation  in addition to the fees I think  Pepper should 
refund.
I can see Pepper has acted in line with FCA guidelines relating to the Covid-19 pandemic 
in giving Mr E a payment deferral. Moving forwards, Mr E will need to engage with Pepper 
about a realistic and affordable way he can repay the arrears.  And Id expect Pepper to 
seriously consider  any proposals put to it before taking  further  action. I would also like to 
remind Pepper about the current  FCA guidance for taking action to recover mortgage 
arrears given the impact  of pandemic and I expect  them to continue to treat Mr E in line 
with this guidance as it continues to evolve over time.
Ref: DRN39681126my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to direct Pepper to refund the fees and charges set 
out in the table below to Mr Es account and to rework  the account as if they had never 
been applied  to reflect the correct  interest  and balance.
Fee Date Amount (£)
Administration fees January 2012 40
February 2012 40
March 2012 40
April 2013 40
November 2013 40
December 2013 40
May 2014 40
August 2014 40
February 2015 40
Unpaid cheque fee June 2012 25
Total 385
developments
Pepper hasnt  commented on my provisional decision.
Mr E has explained more about what  happened  from 2011 and raised  some  additional points  
which Ive considered carefully and will address in my findings below. 
Mr Es confirmed  Pepper tried to repossess his property in 2011  and twice in 2013.  
Hes provided more  evidence about  his daughters illness and says Pepper was well aware 
of it from conversations, emails and letters. Mr Es told us his daughter  was in hospital for 
nine months in 2011 and spent another year on medication to treat her illness. He said this 
hampered his ability to work. 
In late 2013 Mr Es grandmother died and in 2014 his mother  also sadly passed away. His 
daughter became ill again in 2016  and went into hospital for several more months. This 
coincided with Mr E losing his job. 
Mr E says the way in which  hes been treated by Pepper has caused him and his family 
stress and anxiety and adversely affected his credit rating. 
Hes unhappy the change from a repayment  mortgage to part interest only means he 
wont have paid off the mortgage  by the end of the term despite overpayments hes 
made. And Mr E says he cant move to a new lender  because  of the arrears. 
Mr E is uncomfortable with Pepper making the adjustments to his account to take account of 
the refunds Ive said it should make and asks that this service audit his mortgage  from when 
it started. 
Ref: DRN39681127my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has clearly  been through a very difficult time and I can only imagine  the stress and 
anxiety caused  by his daughters illness, the loss of his close relatives and the financial 
difficulties he has suffered over many  years. I sympathise with his situation.
Ive considered carefully the points Mr E has made  in response to my provisional decision.  
But, as Ill explain,  and whilst I know it will be disappointing for Mr E, I havent  changed  my 
mind about  the outcome of his complaint. 
I understand Mr Es circumstances,  the difficulty in paying his mortgage and the impact on 
his credit file will have  caused Mr E a great  deal of stress and anxiety. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I felt Pepper  had treated Mr E fairly by, for example, agreeing  with 
him arrangements to pay, arranging for debt counselling and holding off from taking court  
action. I havent  seen any new evidence that suggests Pepper  treated Mr E unfairly.  And it 
was inevitable Mr Es credit file would  be affected when he was in arrears, as Pepper would 
have had a duty to report the arrears hed incurred.  
Mr E suggests Pepper was aware  of his daughters  health issues earlier  than its records 
suggest. Even if Pepper had known sooner, I think the action it took was reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
Mr E had significant arrears of around £12,000  by the beginning of 2011 which had built up 
since the mortgage started. Pepper  agreed several  payment arrangements  with Mr E to help 
him manage  the mortgage account  and repay  the arrears, which he wasnt  able to stick to, 
and ultimately it capitalised the arears bringing  the balance  to nil in 2012. I think  Pepper  only 
took court action  at times when it was reasonable for it to do so  for example, when Mr E 
had very significant  arrears or hadnt managed to keep up with payment arrangements.
 
I acknowledge Mr E thinks it was wrong  for his mortgage to be changed from repayment 
terms to part-interest-only/part-repayment when his mortgage was capitalised.  However,  
Mr E wasnt  able to keep up repayments after the capitalisation had happened  even  though 
part of the mortgage had changed to interest  only. If the full amount of the mortgage  had 
stayed on repayment  terms,  the monthly mortgage  payments  would have been higher  and 
even more difficult for Mr E to make. So I dont think keeping the mortgage on repayment 
terms at the time would have helped him pay off the mortgage any sooner as he feels  it 
would.
Mr Es unhappy this service hasnt  looked  at his mortgage account  from the beginning.  As 
Ive explained,  we can only look at whats happened  from 2011  onwards in line with the 
ombudsmans decision about  jurisdiction. If Mr E wanted his account audited  as hes 
indicated, hed need to instruct an appropriate auditor to do that. 
Bearing everything in mind, for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision and here,  I 
uphold Mr Es complaint  in part. I think Pepper should repay the charges I refer to below.
Id reiterate that Pepper should continue to act in line with current FCA guidance for taking 
action to recover mortgage arrears given the impact of the pandemic  and I expect  them to 
treat Mr E in line with this guidance as it continues to evolve over time. Mr E will need to 
Ref: DRN39681128engage with Pepper about  a realistic and affordable way he can repay the arrears and 
consider seeking  independent financial advice. And Id expect Pepper to seriously  
consider any proposals put to it before taking further  action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Pepper  (UK) Limited to refund the fees and charges set out 
in the table below to Mr Es account  and to rework the account  as if they had never  been  
applied to reflect the correct interest and balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2021.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Fee Date Amount (£)
Administration fees January 2012 40
February 2012 40
March 2012 40
April 2013 40
November 2013 40
December 2013 40
May 2014 40
August 2014 40
February 2015 40
Unpaid cheque fee June 2012 25
Total 385
Ref: DRN3968112