K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that he was charged  to reject  a car thatd  been supplied to him under a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
background
On 9 January  2019, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement  was for £4,695 over 60 months,  with monthly repayments 
of £155.67. The car was about five and a half years old and had done  73,000  miles. 
The car had been sourced by a credit broker Ill call C, from an underlying car dealership Ill 
call D. C was listed as the supplying dealership on the paperwork  and Mr S paid them a 
£48 admin fee as part of the process.
Mr S was unhappy that there were  mechanical and other issues  with the car and raised 
these with Moneybarn  on 14 January  2019. On 21 January 2019 he asked D if he could 
reject the car and paid them £500 to enable him to do this. And, on 30 January 2019, C and 
Moneybarn told Mr S he could reject the car and that the agreement would be unwound.  And 
C said theyd refund Mr S the £48 hed paid.
Mr S has complained that, because he returned the car within  the 14-day cooling off period,  
he shouldnt have to pay anything. So he asked Moneybarn to refund him the £500 hed paid 
to D, and to reimburse  him for the £40 petrol hed put in the car and used getting to and from 
Ds premises. Moneybarn didnt agree, so Mr S brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our adjudicator said she hadnt considered the rejection of the car itself, as Mr S was 
allowed to reject it without  any issues. And because this was arranged  so quickly, she didnt 
think Mr S needed to be compensated for any minor  inconvenience hed been caused.
She also said that, because Mr S hadnt made any payments to the agreement, Moneybarn 
didnt have anything  they needed  to refund. Moneybarn  had removed the agreement from Mr 
Ss credit file, which the adjudicator said was something shed have expected  them to do.
But the adjudicator didnt  think  Moneybarn  were responsible for the £500 Mr S paid to D. He 
paid this without  referring  to C or Moneybarn first and, because it was paid after the car had 
been supplied  to Mr S, it didnt form part of the conditional sale transaction.  So Moneybarn 
couldnt be held responsible for this.
The adjudicator also explained that we can only consider complaints about regulated 
businesses, and D arent regulated. And she didnt  think C were  responsible  for refunding 
the £500 because the payment  didnt relate  to the credit broking services  theyd provided.
The adjudicator also said that the 14-day  cooling  off period related to the agreement  with 
Moneybarn, and not the car itself. So it meant that Moneybarn wouldnt charge anything  
which they didnt   and not that Mr S should be refunded for anything  hed paid someone  
else when handing  back the car.
While the adjudicator acknowledged the financial impact paying the £500 had on Mr S, for 
the reasons shed given she didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
Ref: DRN39992312Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator. Hes said that hed spoken to C on two occasions  and 
theyd told him, on a recorded  call, that he could hand the car back  with no problems and no 
fee what so ever. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations;  any 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what  I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  Mr S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement  which  means 
were able to look into complaints  about it. 
But, after reviewing all of the evidence, Im in agreement that the £500 Mr S paid didnt form 
part of the conditional sale agreement. Mr S had the right to reject the car, under certain 
circumstances. And both C and Moneybarn agreed he was able to reject the car, and to 
unwind the agreement. This was all sorted  within a few weeks of Mr S first raising  the issues 
with Moneybarn. I dont  think this was an unreasonable timescale.
But, while Moneybarn were considering Mr Ss complaint, Mr S paid D £500 so he could 
reject the car. I dont believe this payment shouldve been made.
Ive seen nothing  to show me that Moneybarn charged this £500,  asked D to charge it, or 
that D paid the £500  to Moneybarn. The £500 payment was a separate arrangement 
between Mr S and D. It wasnt arranged by either Moneybarn or C, and Mr S didnt contact 
either of them  to discuss whether or not to make  the payment at the time. 
Because of the above, and because the payment was made to D outside  of the conditional 
sale agreement after the car was supplied  to Mr S, Im not holding Moneybarn  responsible  
for refunding this to Mr S. This is something  Mr S will need  to raise directly  with D. But D 
arent regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority so, if they dont  agree to refund the £500 
to Mr S, unfortunately the Financial Ombudsman Service cant tell them they have to  they 
dont fall within our jurisdiction.
Mr S also believes the cooling off period in his finance agreement means he shouldnt  have 
to pay anything. But this only relates  to the finance agreement. And Moneybarn  havent 
charged him any payments, interest,  fees or charges  which is what Id expect. It doesnt  
extend to the £500 Mr S paid D outside  of the agreement or cover  the petrol he put in the car 
for the brief period  of time it was in his possession.
Mr S has also raised the issue of what he was told by C about  what  would happen if he 
rejected the car. C have provided the two calls they had with Mr S, on the dates hes said the 
calls took place. Ive listened to these  calls. In the first call, Mr S discussed the possibility of 
financing a car. C explained that, if Mr S wanted  to settle the agreement  early, then there 
wouldnt be any fees. And Ive noted that, when  the agreement with Moneybarn  was 
unwound, Mr S wasnt charged  any fees.
Ref: DRN39992313In the second  call, Mr S told C hed found a car hed like to finance. During the discussion he 
raised concerns  about buying  a car online and finding out there were problems with it after 
purchase. C said there would be an approved warranty  with the car which would  be included 
in the price. There was no discussion on this call about what would happen  if Mr S needed to 
reject the car. 
But C did tell him that, if there were any issues with the car, to let them know. And they told 
him there was a 14-day  cooling off period. Unfortunately there  were  issues  with the car and 
Mr S was allowed to reject the car. And, in unwinding the finance  agreement,  Mr S wasnt 
charged anything  by Moneybarn.
There was nothing in either of these calls where  Mr S was told that hed have to pay 
anything to allow him to reject the car, or that any payments he agreed to pay to any third 
party when rejecting the car would be refunded to him. Ive also seen that Mr S was provided 
with copies of these calls, and he hasnt  raised any further objections  about what  he was or 
wasnt told at the time.
Because of all of this, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, I 
wont be telling Moneybarn they need  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Moneybarn  No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 February  2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3999231