K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the charges  PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) asked him to pay when 
he returned a car at the end of its lease.
background 
Mr S took receipt of a new car in June 2016. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with PSA. When he returned  the car at the end of the agreement PSA said hed 
need to pay some charges. They said there  was damage to three alloy wheels and levied a 
charge of £65 to refurbish each of them. They also said hed need to pay £400 as the 
service book stamps were missing.
Mr S said he wasnt provided with a service  book and had only recently been able to get one 
from the dealership.  He said theyd assured him that the services records  were now stored  
on line and he provided evidence to demonstrate the necessary services had been 
completed. He also disputed  the charges made  for the alloy wheel damage.
PSA explained that it was Mr Ss responsibility  to ensure the service book was stamped after 
each service and they insisted  the charge for the missing stamps  and the alloy wheel  
damage were chargeable. But, as a gesture of goodwill, they agreed to remove one charge 
of £65 for one of the wheels and to reduce the charge  theyd made for missing  services by 
£100. The outstanding bill was therefore reduced to £430.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the photographs  in the inspectors report; completed when the car 
was handed back. She thought the damage to the alloy wheels was in excess  of the industry 
guidelines on what represents fair wear  and tear when a car is returned at the end of a 
lease, provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).  So she 
thought PSA had been right to charge Mr S for refurbishment of the wheels and that theyd 
been reasonable when  agreeing to remove one of the charges.
She noted that the service  book  had been returned unstamped and she explained that the 
terms of Mr Ss contract  said it was his responsibility  to ensure it was returned stamped  to 
evidence the services that had been  completed. She didnt  think  it unreasonable  that a 
vehicle sent to auction without a service record would achieve  a lower value and she 
therefore thought that PSA had been  fair when making a charge.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. He said the car had a full service  history;  it 
wasnt his fault the service book hadnt been supplied  when  it should  have been and that the 
service record  was intact as it was available on line. He therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN39075852board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The terms of the finance agreement said that it was Mr Ss responsibility to ensure the car 
was returned with the service booked stamped to evidence the services that had been 
completed. 
Its not disputed  that the service book was not stamped. But Mr S has provided evidence  that 
the services were completed.
I think its reasonable to suggest that a car will usually realise a lower  sales value when 
presented at auction without a full service  history. The charge PSA have made is to 
compensate them for that loss of value.
Mr S says that service  records are kept on line and I believe that is the case. But from on 
line research it also seems to be the case that these records are not available to everyone  
without making a request to the franchised  dealership.
So when the car was presented at auction without the service book I think  its likely the 
auction house would have  presented it without a full service history as thats  what the 
documentation that accompanied the car told them.
In those circumstances, whilst I can understand that it will be frustrating to Mr S, I think its 
likely the car will not have realised the value that it could  have and that PSA have not been  
unreasonable when levying a charge  for the missing history.
Ive also reviewed the damage  to the alloy wheels  and I would agree with the adjudicator 
that the damage is more extensive  than the BVRLA  guidelines would consider was fair wear 
and tear. A charge can therefore be made as the terms of Mr Ss agreement allow PSA to 
make one. 
I think the charges  applied, and PSAs actions to reduce them, have been fair so Im not 
asking them to do anything more than has currently been agreed.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3907585