K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy which Mr R took out in 1999 with a 
personal loan.  Mr R says that HSBC  sold him the PPI in a meeting at one of HSBCs  
branches when  he was applying for a loan to buy a car. The cost of the premium  was added 
to the loan and attracted interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr R says he didnt ask for the PPI to be added to his loan and he wasnt made aware  that 
the cover  was optional.
HSBC doesnt  still have much documentation from the time of the sale.  I dont find this 
particularly surprising given how long ago the sale took place. HSBC says it cant be sure 
how the PPI was sold, but Ive no reason to think that Mr R is wrong in saying  that the PPI 
was sold to him in an HSBC branch.
HSBC has provided  a sample copy of the sales documentation used at the time. Part of this 
documentation is a Creditor Protection  Declaration  form, which Mr R would  have been  
required to sign. In doing so, he was confirming  that hed decided  to take loan protection and 
that hed received a copy of the loan protection policy document.  The credit agreement he 
signed would also have shown details of the cost of the PPI separately  to his main  loan.  And 
I think he would have  queried why this had been added to the agreement  if he hadnt  agreed 
to take it.
So from what Ive seen  - together with what I know more generally  about HSBCs sales 
practices at this time - I think its most likely  that Mr R knew  at the time that he had a choice 
about buying PPI and actively  decided  to do so. But I can understand why he may not be 
able to recall this now after such a long time. 
Mr R has also said that HSBC didnt  make him aware that a similar  PPI policy  could have 
been bought by him from another provider. But HSBC wasnt required to tell him this, so I 
dont think it did anything  wrong if it didnt do this.
Ref: DRN39511242I think its most likely  that HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr R. This means that it needed 
to make sure it was suitable  for him. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time,  I 
cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
He appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Mr R says he was self-employed at the time of the sale. But I 
dont think this would have made  it more  difficult for him to make a claim under the 
policy. So this didnt  make  it unsuitable  for him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for him.
The policy would have protected Mr Rs loan repayments if he couldnt work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  And it doesnt look like Mr R had sufficient other 
mean of making  his loan repayments  if he wasnt able to work so as to make this cover 
unsuitable for him. And I think he would have  valued the extra  security  that this PPI 
policy provided and been willing to pay for it.
The policy didnt offer a proportional  refund  of the premium if the loan was cancelled  
early. That meant  that the policy was relatively  inflexible. But theres nothing to show  me 
Mr R was likely to repay the loan early  when he took it out. So I dont  think this meant the 
policy was unsuitable for him.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt give Mr R all the information it should  have  done  about the PPI 
policy at the time of the sale. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for him, I dont think better information  would have stopped him from buying it. I 
think he would still have  thought the policy gave him useful cover at an affordable  price.
In responding  to our adjudicators view, Mr Rs representative has also said it was unfair that 
HSBC didnt disclose  to Mr R the commission it earned on the premium he paid. Mr R said 
he wouldnt  have bought the policy if hed been  made aware of this commission  received by 
HSBC.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
HSBC has given me information that shows Mr Rs loan was taken out in 1999  and ended in 
2002. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Ref: DRN39511243Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
I dont think HSBC needed to tell Mr R at the time the commission it earned  on his policy.  So 
it doesnt now need to refund any of this commission  to him.
In summary,  Mr R doesnt seem to have lost out by anything which  HSBC  may have done 
wrong when selling this PPI policy  to him.
Ive carefully thought  about everything that Mr R and his representative have  said,  but this 
hasnt changed  my mind  about not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3951124