K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited was mis-
sold to her and that the car that was supplied to her wasnt  of satisfactory quality.  Shes 
being helped  with her com plaint by her representative.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss L under a conditional sale agreement  with Moneybarn  that 
she signed in November 2018.  The car was about  two and a half years old and had been  
driven for 23,852 miles. There were some issues with the car so Miss L took it to a 
manufacturers dealer  and the faults  were repaired under warranty.  But Miss Ls 
representative then complained to Moneybarn about  those issues, some damage to the car 
and the interest  rate and amount repayable under the agreement. Miss L wasnt satisfied  
with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
faults had been repaired under warranty and that Miss L hadnt  told the dealer or Moneybarn  
about the faults before they were repaired so they werent given the opportunity to repair or 
investigate them. And she thought  that the interest rate was clearly set out in the 
documentation when  Miss L entered into the agreement. So she couldnt see that 
Moneybarn had made any error when dealing with Miss Ls complaint.
Miss Ls representative, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says that issues with the car were reported to the dealer the day after it 
was supplied to Miss L and that hes called out a recovery service four times - but it wouldn't 
recover the car because  he hadnt  paid his subscription. He also says that the cars brake 
pads need to be changed and he shouldnt have to pay for that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L signed a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in November 2018. I consider 
that it was clear from the agreement that the credit was being provided by Moneybarn and 
that the dealer was acting  as a credit intermediary. The dealer sold the car to Moneybarn  
and it supplied the car to Miss L under the agreement.
She also signed a proposed finance  explanation  document. Both the agreement and the 
explanation document set out the price of the car, the amount of credit  that was being 
provided, the total amount  payable,  the interest  rate and the number of, and the amount of 
the, monthly payments.  
Immediately above  Miss Ls signature  on the agreement it says:  
This is a Conditional Sale Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms. 
I consider that the agreement and the explanation document contained the required 
information about the credit that was being provided to Miss L and that she knew,  or ought 
Ref: DRN37068932reasonably to have  known,  the terms that she had agreed to. So Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the agreement  was mis-sold to Miss L.
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Miss L was about 
two and a half years old, had been driven for 23,852 miles and had a price of £21,999. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Miss Ls representative says that he contacted the dealer about some  issues with the car 
soon after it was supplied  to Miss L. And he says that a recovery  service was called out four 
times but the car couldnt be recovered because he hadnt paid his subscription  for the 
service. But hes previously said that he didnt contact the dealer about the issues with the 
car. And theres no evidence to show that he contacted Moneybarn  about any issues  with 
the car until after the car had been repaired.
Miss Ls representative has complained about  some  cosmetic issues  with the car. But the 
car was supplied to Miss L in the condition that it was in at that time  and Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the dealer had agreed to make any changes  to the cosmetic condition 
of the car. Im not persuaded those  cosmetic issues caused the car to not be of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Miss L.
Its clear from the manufacturers  dealers  job card that repairs  to the cars  diesel  particulate  
filter, tooth belt and tensioner, fuel flap, rear ashtray and leaking gear box were  carried out in 
February 2019. Those repairs were free of charge and Ive seen no evidence  to show  that 
the repairs havent rectified the faults  with the car. So I consider that the repairs have been  
an acceptable remedy to any faults  with the car. I dont  consider that theres enough 
evidence to show that the dealer or Moneybarn were told about  those  faults or were  given an 
opportunity to investigate  or repair them. And Im not persuaded that theres  enough 
evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied to Miss L. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the brake pads needed to be 
replaced when  the car was supplied to Miss L. The brake pads are a wear  and tear item for 
which the user of the car is responsible. And I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Moneybarn to pay for the cars brake pads to be replaced.  
Im not persuaded that Moneybarn has acted incorrectly  in its dealings with Miss L (or her 
representative). So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances  for me 
to require Moneybarn  to allow Miss L to reject the car, to end the agreement  or to take any 
other action  in response to her complaint.
Miss L says that shes had a change of jobs and is now in financial difficulty and cant afford 
the monthly payments under the agreement. Moneybarn is required to respond to any 
financial difficulties that Miss L is experiencing positively and sympathetically. So if she 
hasnt already done so, I suggest that she contacts Moneybarn to discuss her financial 
difficulties. In its final response letter to her it said that if the agreement  was now 
unaffordable for her she should contact its customer operations team  on the number that it 
provided. I consider  that to have been  fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN37068933my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3706893