K821x#15complaint
Mr E says that Provident Personal Credit Limited,  trading as Satsuma, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Satsuma approved 7 instalment loans for Mr E between July 2017 and March 2018. Mr E 
said that he was in financial difficulty and the lending made his difficulties worse. Mr E hasnt 
been able to repay loans  6 and 7 and a balance appears to be outstanding.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Satsuma shouldnt  have continued  
to lend to Mr E from loan 6 onwards  as he was reliant on this type of credit and essentially 
using the loans to supplement his income.  The adjudicator thought  that by this point Satsuma 
should have realised that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator recommended  
that Satsuma put things  right for Mr E by refunding all interest  and charges incurred on loans 6 
and 7. 
Satsuma didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that Mr E was 
required to repay only a small amount of his declared income towards  his repayments. It 
said that there was no evidence  that Mr E was struggling to manage his money and the 
adjudicator hadnt taken  into account  Mr Es individual circumstances. Satsuma asked  for 
the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN35950122There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish whether 
Mr E could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. 
Satsuma has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr E. It asked Mr E for details 
of his income and normal expenditure. And Satsuma carried  out checks on Mr Es credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Satsuma to give Mr E loans 1 to 5 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Satsuma to agree to lend.  As Mr E 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
five, I dont think that I need  to say more about them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Es lending with Satsuma to see if there was a point at 
which Satsuma should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more  
money to Mr E.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Es case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
when Mr E took out loan six, hed been  borrowing consistently and wasnt making any 
inroads in to the amount that he owed. The loans  were instalment loans but Mr E settled 
them early  often  by taking another loan to repay  the earlier borrowing. I think  this pattern 
of lending shouldve  alerted Satsuma  at the point  of loan 6 to the likelihood that Mr E 
was having problems managing his money  and wasnt borrowing sustainably.
Mr E wasnt able to pay back loans 6 and 7 which further suggests the lending was 
unsustainable.
I think that Mr E lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
the number of loans  that Mr E had taken from Satsuma was likely to have had negative  
implications on his ability  to access mainstream  credit.  This kept Mr E in the market  for 
these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN35950123So Im upholding  Mr Es complaint about  loans 6 and 7.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr E which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr E having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Satsuma should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Mr E.
E.The overall pattern  of Mr Es borrowing for loans six and seven means  any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so these loans should be removed from 
Mr Es credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part and direct  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3595012