K822xcomplaint
Mr T has complained about his let property insurer, AXA Insurance  UK Plc, in relation to a 
water leak and loss of rent claim made to it in 2016.
background
Mr Ts property was let in 2016  when the leak occurred (in June).  AXA accepted  the claim 
and the property began to be dried seemingly  without any delay. The rent was £1,200  per 
month.
By November 2016, with repairs not having  progressed,  the tenant  began complaining to 
Mr T. To appease them Mr T agreed  to a small rent reduction.  In November £950 rent was 
received and in December  £1,000. Januarys rent was paid in full (£1,200) but in February 
just £1,082 was paid.  March and April were paid in full but the tenant moved out in April and 
with repairs to the flat still outstanding it couldnt be let again.
By February  2018,  whilst  AXA was still disputing liability for some  of the work, Mr T had 
carried out most of the repairs. The flat was re-let  (from  16 February 2018) but at a reduced  
rent of £850 per month.
The dispute  over what repairs were necessary had begun in earnest in December 2016.
Mr T had supplied  a repair schedule to the loss adjuster but the loss adjuster  felt it reflected 
more damage than hed seen when  he visited the property in June 2016. Mr T noted that 
the loss adjuster hadnt met with him at that time, only his non-English speaking  tenant.
In March 2017 there was a meeting in which a broad scope of repair was agreed to. 
Towards the end of April the loss adjuster said hed costed the necessary insured work at
£14,775. He said if Mr T showed  invoices for work this sum would be paid to him  or AXA 
would do the work.  Mr T asked for a breakdown  of the cost, complained about delays and 
queried why his request for lost rent had been  refused,  clarifying the tenant had moved out 
at the end of April 2017.
In June 2017 AXA issued a final response. It said the damage had mostly been to the 
lounge, hall and one bedroom, drying  would have been inconvenient but the property hadnt  
been uninhabitable. So there wasnt a valid claim for lost rent. It could settle  the repair claim 
in cash or it would carry out the work.
Into October  2017  Mr T was still chasing a breakdown for the cost of work  offered. AXA 
pointed to its final response letter from June and Mr T complained to this service.
Mr T said he wanted AXA to substantiate  its settlement  offer. Later, in December 2017, 
during our involvement,  AXAs  price breakdown was sent to Mr T, and it paid the proffered 
figure of £14,775.  Mr T said his schedule was much more extensive; that the 
kitchen/lounge/diner, as well as the hallway, both bedrooms and their en-suites had been 
affected, he totalled the work at around  £30,000.
Our investigator issued  her view in late January  2018. She felt a claim for lost rent needed 
to be made  by Mr T and an independent  surveyor should be appointed to assess what 
damage/repairs AXA was liable for.
Mr T said hed already done most  of the repair work. An invoice dated 21 February 2018 
Ref: DRN36318752confirmed the original quote totalled £29,016 including VAT, with the only work from that 
now outstanding  being reinstatement  of the en-suites (at a cost of £7,388 including  VAT).
AXA didnt believe any plastering had been  required and felt the damage  to the en-suites 
was unrelated to the water ingress that had occurred  in 2016. It thought damp and mould in 
the bedrooms, under the windows, remote from the water ingress, was likely  unrelated  too.
AXA agreed to pay for a surveyor.  That visit took place in June 2018. His report issued in 
August explained  he wasnt commenting on the cost of the work but had looked at the work 
detailed in the schedule and had commented on whether or not each item should be paid 
for as part of the claim. AXA felt his report was vague, not really, in its view,  adding 
anything of worth. For example, it didnt comment on costs  or on the likely cause of the 
mould that was necessitating the plaster repair. The report also highlighted further damage 
in the flat, around the wall of the en-suite  nearest the lounge.
Our investigator said that as AXA had agreed  to the surveyor  assessing  the necessary 
work, and paid for the service,  it should  accept his findings without question. She said it 
should also pay any rent lost as a result of the water  leak.
AXA objected. The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I issued a 
provisional decision as I didnt think it was fair to require AXA to honour the report.  But I did 
think it should pay lost rent. The parties  have now responded. My provisional findings and 
the parties responses are set out below as part of my findings of this final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Having done so I think its currently far from clear what  exactly it was that we were  asking 
AXA to pay. And I dont  think, to date,  weve really got to the bottom of what damage  in the 
flat it is likely liable for repairing. Or clarified the situation regarding  the new damage. And 
because we havent been clear about the damage, it isnt clear  what  value we think AXA 
should pay regarding  lost rent. I apologise for all of that. Im issuing a provisional  decision to 
provide my view on what I think AXA is liable for. Ive also considered how AXA handled the 
claim as I note Mr T has been concerned about  that too.
introduction
No-one can agree on what  damage AXA is liable for. Whilst AXA agreed to the surveyor  
being appointed in 2018 to resolve this issue, I can understand the concerns AXA has with 
his findings. As the agreement for his appointment wasnt part of a final decision issued by
this service, and the parties didnt agree to be bound by what  was found, AXA can 
reasonably raise objections. I then need  to decide what damage AXA is fairly  and 
reasonably liable for repairing. From there  Ill look at what  cost it needs to pay for that, if 
anything given it has already paid £14,775.
the damage
There are photographs which  show damp  on the external walls of both bedrooms under the 
Ref: DRN36318753windows. The bedrooms open off of, and the en-suites  (on the walls  opposite the windows) 
back on to, the flats hallway. The lounge being  at one end. The kitchen area within  the 
lounge is on the same external wall as the bedroom  windows.  The leak, as I understand it, 
came from the neighbouring property that adjoins Mr Ts flat, along the hallway (across from 
the bedrooms),  and at the right-hand  end of the lounge  (furthest  from the kitchen area).
There is no report from the adjusters visit in June 2016, just some  photos and notes. He 
does refer to the need to strip the lounge (which  comprises the kitchen and dining area too), 
hallway and one bedroom.
There is also a report from the drying  company. That says skirting  boards need removing 
throughout, the carpets in the lounge and bedrooms need lifting  (I believe the carpet in the 
hallway had already been removed) and that mould treatment throughout is required. It also 
states that the affected rooms are the hallway and lounge, as well as both bedrooms and 
their en-suites.
AXA, for its part, has said it never doubted there were moisture  issues  with the en-suites, 
just that these were  unrelated to the ingress  from the neighbouring flat. Im also mindful  that 
the photos suggest the water only soaked the floor  there  wasnt  a body of water  in the flat 
such that might reach electrical sockets  or damage plaster. The skirting  boards would have 
needed removing  to aid drying  of the floor but this didnt damage the plaster  in anyway.
None of the repair costs relate to reinstating the floor itself.
I think its fair to say then that the water  ingress from the neighbouring  flat is unlikely to 
have damaged the external wall of the flat, along which the bedroom  windows and the 
kitchen are situated. The area is quite remote from the point of ingress and I havent seen 
that a sufficient amount of water  was likely  present to have been able to cause damage in 
those areas.  From what Ive seen  I think the water  didnt  go very far into the bedrooms or 
across the lounge. The hallway and lounge  walls  werent showing similar signs of damage 
even though they were closest to the point of ingress.
As the floor itself didnt need reinstating,  I think its unlikely  that water  from the soaked  
carpets tracked under the partition walls dividing the en-suites from the hallway and 
bedrooms. And certainly not in sufficient  enough  volume to then cause moisture  damage 
within the en-suites.
The photos  from 2018 show a line of mould,  about a couple of inches high running around 
the outside wall of the en-suite in the bedroom  closest to lounge. The mould  continues  
along the hallway wall until the point  that en-suite ends and the adjoining  en-suite in the 
other bedroom begins. Its a very localised and specific area. I think that is indicative of an 
issue unrelated  to the 2016 ingress incident.  It seems unlikely to me that a failure to dry the 
property in 2016 would result in such localised damage two years  later.  Particularly not 
when the plaster  in that area has been replaced  as evidenced by the quote and invoice.
I think it was reasonable  then for AXA to question  whether all of the work quoted  for needed  
doing as a result of the water ingress  incident.  Im reasonably satisfied that no electrical 
testing was likely needed due to low level water ingress and that no plastering  work was 
needed either. Furthermore, any damp  or mould  under  the windows, in the en-suites or in 
the kitchen, seems unlikely to be related  to the 2016 water  leak, meaning AXA isnt fairly 
liable, in my view, for their reinstatement.
Mr T said he didnt  agree  with what Id said about  the repairs. But he said,  on the whole,  
hed reluctantly accept  my findings. Ill continue my provisional findings:
Ref: DRN36318754cost of work
Whilst Ive found  what  I have above  about  the work that was done and/or needs doing, that 
doesnt lead to a simple  conclusion regarding costs. Thats at least  in part because Mr Ts 
quote for works  to be carried out only breaks down the overall  cost into the cost necessary 
per room, with the exception of the bedrooms  and en-suites where  a cost is given for each 
bedroom with its respective  en-suite.  Some rooms  on the quote comprise  work AXA is 
liable for as well as some that isnt.
The quote  says that each  bedroom with its respective en-suite will cost £7,450  plus VAT. 
So before adding VAT thats £14,900  for both. We know from the invoice from February 
2018 that the en-suite  work is outstanding and the invoice deducts £7,388 (including VAT) 
from the overall cost (£29,016 including VAT) for that work. The price  for the en-suites 
before VAT is £5,910.40. Which means  the cost for the two bedrooms is £8,989.60 (with 
£1,797.92 VAT to be added).
Ive said AXA isnt liable for the cost of repairing the en-suites. The invoice amount, less the 
en-suite cost, including  VAT is £21,628.
The bedrooms were  costed at £4,494.80 each. They, along with the hall and lounge 
comprised similar work, obviously across differently sized areas and the cost for the lounge  
also includes  removal and re-fitting the kitchen and replacement of the floor covering. All 
include electrical testing,  architrave removal and replacement as necessary, and
re-plastering.
Realistically the only items within the quote  that Im satisfied AXA is liable for is 
replacement of the skirting boards and re-decorating.  Bearing  in mind the general cost for 
having work like this done, Im not persuaded the cost for this within the quote Mr T utilised 
would amount to more  than what AXA has already  paid (£14,775). Not when set in light of 
the fact that everything in the quote,  excluding the cost of the en-suites but including other 
quite extensive  and costly work, totalled £21,016.  Meaning AXAs  settlement equates to 
more than two-thirds of the overall  cost Mr Ts incurred. Taking all this into account, Im not 
minded to make AXA pay anything more.
I know Mr T will also now have to re-do some of the work (previously done and paid for), 
given the mould  around the en-suite in the bedroom closest to the lounge.  However, Im 
satisfied, as explained above,  that this damage  in unrelated the water  incident in 2016.  The 
surveyor in 2018  didnt make a link between the two. He concluded AXA should cover  the 
cost for repairing this because the property shouldnt be left with a mould issue. But that 
isnt a good enough reason for me to say AXA should cover the cost of this work. It is 
possible however  that this damage  has resulted from another water  leak, perhaps  this time 
within the en-suite.  If Mr T wants  to make a claim for this damage he is free to do so.
lost rent
The policy offers to reimburse  lost rent if such was lost due to damage covered by the 
policy. It doesnt require  the property to be uninhabitable as a result of the insured loss. 
Essentially if less rent is received due to the property being damaged, that loss, the policy  
says, will be compensated for.
Im satisfied that Mr T received less rent than agreed for from his tenant in November and 
Ref: DRN36318755December 2016  and February 2017. Its unclear why full rent was paid in the months
in-between if the tenant was unhappy about the state of the property  and a formal 
agreement had been reached about rental  payment.  The figures also seem unlikely to have 
resulted from any type of formal agreement. But I accept that with the flat in the state it was
 stripped, being dried and awaiting repair  Mr T couldnt have really criticised  the tenant  
for having paid less than the agreed  rental  amount. I think  its reasonable to attribute the 
loss from these few months  to the claim. Im going  to require AXA to pay Mr T £568 being 
the difference between the rent he should  have received  £3,600  for those three months,  
and that actually received  £3,032 (three monthly payments £950 in November  2016,  
£1,000 in December 2016 and £1,082 in February 2017, where all should have been 
£1,200). Im also going to require AXA to pay interest on each unpaid amount that makes 
up this total from the date it should  have been  received until settlement is made.
That tenant moved out in April 2017, with Aprils rent having been  paid in full. A new tenant 
was found with an agreement signed on 16 February 2018, the tenancy term was a year.  
The rent was agreed at a lower rate than before;  £850 per month. It isnt clear what 
happened in February 2019  when the years  agreement ended.
For nine and a half months, May 2017 to 15 February 2018,  Mr T had no rental income at 
all. AXA did offer in June  2017 to pay Mr T £14,775  or complete work itself but it hadnt 
clearly set out to Mr T what  that money was meant to cover or what work it was it would be 
completing. It could have provided that detail but didnt. Nor did it make  it clear  that Mr T 
could accept that money, with a view to using it to start work, and still complain. The 
settlement was paid as an interim  amount in December 2017 and the flat was re-let,  albeit 
at a reduced amount, shortly thereafter.  I think AXA reasonably needs  to compensate  Mr T 
for his whole loss across  this whole period. Rent at a rate of £1,200  per month  for nine and 
a half months totals £11,400 for AXA to pay. Im also going  to require it to pay interest  on 
each monthly amount  from the date it should  have been received until settlement is made.
Im not going  to require AXA to compensate Mr T for any rental  income lost beyond  that 
time. Mr T acted reasonably by arranging to let the property at a lower rate of rent. This 
mitigated his loss. But the work  that was outstanding at that time, which  affected  the 
amount of rent Mr T could  reasonably charge, was the reinstatement of the en-suites. Ive 
found that AXA isnt liable  for reinstating these rooms. Therefore,  any loss arising because  
of the state of the en-suites, hasnt arisen  as a result  of cover under the policy (due to 
damage caused by the water leak from next door) or due to an unreasonable act by AXA 
(failure to pay what it otherwise should  have  done).
If Mr T makes a further claim for the damage to the en-suite closest to the lounge, he could 
also ask AXA to consider a claim for lost rent from the point the new tenancy began. I dont 
know if that will be successful, I havent  considered  that. My focus has been on whether 
that loss is reasonably attributable to the 2016  claim and AXAs  handling of it. Ive found it 
isnt.
AXA said it would agree to the payment of £598 for reduced rent, but that it didnt think it 
should have to pay the full rent lost from May 2017  to February 2018. It said there were 
other problems at the flat, unrelated to the insured  loss that had caused the tenant to move  
out in April 2017. AXA said it would agree to pay half the rent for that period.
Whilst I appreciate that there were other issues at the flat, the detail I set out provisionally 
shows that the claim had been going  on for a long time by the point the tenant vacated.  
From what  Ive seen Im satisfied they most likely  left due to the insured work not being 
Ref: DRN36318756carried out. And I remain satisfied that AXA failed Mr T by not telling him clearly what  work 
it would  do or pay for, and it didnt tell him he could accept the proffered money and still 
complain. Crucially once  the detail was given  and the money was paid, repairs were  done 
allowing the flat to be re-let. Im satisfied that my provisionally stated findings and award are 
fair and reasonable. Im not going to reduce  the award as AXA has requested.
My provisional findings concluded with consideration of compensation:
compensation
Mr T has had a loss assessor  assist  him from fairly early on in the claim. I think  AXA,  or 
rather its loss adjuster, was quite  difficult to deal with at times. Often promises  were made 
to supply information which were broken. There was definitely  a lack of clarity in some  of 
the correspondence. If Mr T had been  dealing with that direct then Id likely accept hed 
been caused some significant frustration and inconvenience. But he wasnt.
That confusion and poor case management though did affect the length  of the claim. It also 
affected the settlement amount being  paid, as well as reimbursement for the cost of drying. 
And I accept  Mr T was caused some distress and inconvenience due to delays and having 
to stat work  without any money being  available.  Overall Im satisfied that £250  
compensation is fairly and reasonable due.
Overall  As Mr T generally accepted my findings,  and AXAs objection didnt change my 
mind, my provisional findings  havent changed.  They  now form part of the findings  of this, 
my final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr T:
£598 in reimbursement of lost rent that should  have been  received in November and 
December 2016  and February  2017,  plus interest  on each sum that makes up this figure  
from the date each should have  been  received until settlement is made.
£11,400 in reimbursement of lost rent that should have been received between  
May 2017 and 15 February 2018  (inclusive), plus interest on each monthly sum that 
makes up this figure from the date it should  have  been received until settlement is made.
£250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If AXA Insurance 
UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from any interest due to Mr T, it should  
tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN36318757
Ref: DRN3631875