K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service  in connection 
with his home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with a consumers complaints about one insurance 
company (or other regulated financial firm) at a time.  We name  that company in our final 
decision but we dont name  any other company or individual. 
Where the complaint is about a claim under  an insurance policy, we deal with it as a 
complaint against  the insurer responsible for dealing with claims.
Mr D had insurance that covered breakdown of his gas central heating. The policy was in the 
name of a home  assistance company. Aviva was the insurer responsible for dealing  with 
claims. Where I refer to Aviva I include the home assistance company, its engineers and 
others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their actions.
Mr D had no hot water so he called Aviva  for help. He complained  that  on Friday 21 
December 2018  - its engineer refused to help and left him and his family with no hot water  or 
central heating.
In a final response letter dated  7 January 2019, Aviva apologised that its engineer had left 
incorrectly saying that the boiler  was unsafe to work  on. Aviva offered (and later paid) Mr D 
£894.31.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
Mr Ds claim wasnt  handled well and this caused  him upset and inconvenience. However 
the investigator thought that Aviva  had made fair and reasonable offers in compensation to 
resolve the complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
His boiler has been in the same place for over ten years since the extension was 
built. There was no problem when  the home assistance company  serviced the boiler 
under the policy  in 2008 / 2009. 
He has two autistic sons, the youngest  of whom is six years old. 
On 21 December 2018 the engineer complained about the location of the boiler. He 
left without resolving the hot water issue. Unknown to Mr D, the engineer had 
switched off the whole boiler.  That was negligence.
Mr D rang the home assistance company who stated  that they would not be 
attending the property again.  The company  was not bothered  about his vulnerable  
children. This was a breach of contract.
Mr D then purchased three  heaters for £1,197.00.
Another company  repaired  the boiler on 24 December at a cost of £543.00.
Ref: DRN38856642If the boiler engineer had done proper checks as required under the policy,  he 
shouldve detected a leak within the property which  was the reason for the hot water  
loss.
Mr D was therefore forced to deal with the water  escape claim under his home policy, 
but he is still out of pocket. That includes two excesses of £250.00.
Aviva  should refund  the following:
for the heaters £1,197.00
for repairs               £543.00
sub-total £1,740.00
excesses    £500.00
total £2,240.00
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Mr D says,  he had a new extension and a new boiler in about 2006. The home 
assistance companys  records confirm his recollection that in 2009 it did work on the boiler 
under a previous policy. That was before Aviva became  involved.  But there was no 
suggestion that the boiler was too difficult to access.
Mr D took out the policy for a year from 20 March 2018. The policy  said the following about 
temporary heaters:
Temporary heaters: We will deliver two temporary electrical heaters to your home, in 
the event that we are unable to attend within the same day or next day of your claim 
being raised .The heaters will not need  to be returned to us. Any and all costs 
relating to the use of the heaters is not covered
One of the policys general exclusions was as follows:
g) Repairs which put the health and safety  of our engineers at risk e g where work is 
required in a loft space and permanent boards, railings, lighting or ladders are not in 
place
After Mr D called for help, Aviva attended within a day  on Friday  21 December. But its 
engineer said access to the boiler  was poor so he couldnt safely complete the repair.  He 
later reported that Mr D had been abusive  to him on the phone. 
I accept Mr Ds statement that the engineer left the boiler in a worse  state  than before  with 
no heating as well as no hot water. From Avivas file notes, I think  Mr D still had a useable  
log burner and a working electric  shower.
From the receipt, I see that on that Friday evening Mr D bought three  heaters  from an 
electric retailer  at £399.00 each.
Ref: DRN38856643I have seen evidence  that also on 21 December Mr D took out a policy  with another insurer. 
He agreed to pay a yearly  premium of £564.00  by instalments. The policy  covered central 
heating, plumbing and drainage, electrics  and also kitchen appliances.
I accept Mr Ds statement that  because of the boiler problem - he didnt go to a family 
celebration on the Saturday evening and he wasted a pre-paid hotel night.
Based on what the engineer had said, Aviva  didnt arrange another visit.
Mr D and his family  suffered inconvenience  and upset for four days. I havent seen enough 
medical evidence  from which  to make a finding that inadequate heating caused  illness. But I 
dont doubt Mr Ds statement that he and his family were ill. And I accept  that their illness 
made the inadequate heating especially inconvenient and distressing. 
On Monday 24 December  2018 the other insurer repaired a pump. I havent seen any 
evidence that it cost £543.00.  
Mr D cancelled his policy with Aviva.
In its final response,  Aviva  accepted  that it shouldnt have left saying that the boiler was 
unsafe to work on. It made enquiries of the electrical retailer and suggested that Mr D could  
return the heaters  and get a refund.
Aviva made an offer as follows:
towards the heaters                    £90.00
for the poor service and four days without hot water or heat   £300.00
for its cost of the pump  repair    £170.00
for the hotel    £59.00
refund of premium  / towards  cost of new policy £275.31 
total £894.31
Avivas final response also said it would also consider any further cost of the new policy  if 
Mr D could provide evidence.
Mr D would like Aviva to reimburse him for the heaters at £1,197.00 not just £90.00. And I 
can understand that he had limited options to buy heaters on a Friday evening.  But there 
mustve been less costly  options for temporary  heating or temporary accommodation. 
Also, the documents show  that Mr D had bought the heaters on a buy now-pay later  basis  
and in March 2019 he still had time to start paying  for them. So he hadnt taken up Avivas 
suggestion that he could take them back and get a refund from the retailer.
Mr D would also like Aviva to pay more for the four days without central  heating  and hot 
water. And I accept that Aviva is responsible  for the unfair treatment he received. His 
distress and inconvenience was made worse by the situation with his family and their health.  
But he had a log-burner and an electric shower as well as the temporary  heaters. 
So overall Im satisfied that Avivas payment of £894.31 was fair and reasonable. Indeed  it is 
considerably more than I wouldve directed Aviva to pay if it hadnt made any such offer and 
payment. 
Ref: DRN38856644After Avivas final response to his previous  complaint,  Mr D complained in early February 
2019 that Aviva shouldve  detected  on 21 December 2018  a leak from a water pipe. But he 
has also brought to us a complaint that the other  insurance company shouldve  detected  that 
leak on visits in July 2018, on 24 December 2018 and in January  2019.
In my view that shows that the leak was hard to detect  even after multiple  visits. Whilst he 
may wish that Aviva  had detected it on its visit on 21 December 2018,  Mr D hasnt provided 
enough technical evidence to show that Aviva fell below a reasonable standard of work by 
not detecting it.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  Aviva  to pay any more or to do anything  
further in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3885664