K821x#15Complaint
Mr P says he asked for a payment break  in August 2018, but Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma)  did not inform him of the consequences of not making his 
repayment. And that the lenders actions  will affect  him trying to obtain credit in the future. 
Mr P also says the loans  he took out with Satsuma were unaffordable.
Background
Mr P took two instalment loans from Satsuma between February 2018 and May 2018. A 
summary of Mr Ps borrowing,  based  on the information provided to us by Satsuma,  can be 
found in the table below:
loan 
numberreceived 
dateactual 
repayment  
datenumber of 
Instalmentsloan 
amountcombined  max 
monthly 
repayment
1 24/02/2018 outstanding  12 £1,000.00 £166.00
2 04/05/2018 outstanding 9 £300.00 £232.60
In our adjudicators most recent findings,  he thought the checks  Satsuma completed for 
Mr Ps first loan were  proportionate and so it wasnt  wrong  of Satsuma  to have provided this 
loan. But he thought Satsumas checks shouldve gone further  for loan 2. Had more  in-depth 
checks been carried out the adjudicator thought Satsuma would have seen that Mr P had a 
number of outstanding loans with other  short term lenders, and knowing this Satsuma 
shouldnt have provided this loan.
With regards to Mr Ps complaint about  the lack of information provided by Satsuma when he 
needed to take a break from his repayments  in August 2018, our adjudicator  didnt think the 
lender needed to do anything more than what it had offered.
Mr P has told us he agrees with our adjudicators opinion.  But Satsuma didnt respond.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr P could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN30829642But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
 repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
To begin with, Mr P has already  accepted  our adjudicators findings for loan 1. So as this 
loan is no longer in dispute, I have no reason to reach any findings about  it in this final 
decision. But I will still take this loan into account  when looking at Mr Ps overall borrowing 
history.
Mr P applied for his second loan whilst he was still repaying loan 1. This meant  Satsuma 
needed to be satisfied that Mr P could sustainably make the combined  monthly  repayment  of 
£232.60.
Satsuma has told us it enquired about Mr Ps income and expenses,  and it also used  
information from the Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs). From  the information it gathered, it 
added further  Safe Guards and buffer amounts on top of the information Mr P declared 
about his monthly  expenses. But even taking these  extra buffers  into account the information 
Satsuma obtained  indicated that Mr P would be in a position to afford this loan.
It also appears that Mr Ps loan applications were initially declined. But following receipt of 
his payslips, Satsuma  was satisfied based  on what it saw that Mr P would be in a position to 
be able to afford both of his loans.
But Satsuma  was required to establish  whether Mr P could sustainably  repay  his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr P could 
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
I acknowledge that Satsuma completed an enhanced  level of affordability  checks following 
the information it received about  Mr P at the time of the applications.  But bearing in mind  the 
fact this was Mr Ps second request for a loan in just over two months and that he was now 
committing himself  to repaying two loans  with a larger overall repayment, over the next nine 
months  I think Satsuma needed to do more. 
Ref: DRN30829643So, I think Satsuma shouldve carried out a full review of Mr Ps financial position for loan 2  
which ought to have included asking to verify  some  of the information  he had provided about 
his circumstances.  But Satsuma didnt take steps to verify Mr Ps expenditure and instead  
chose to rely on what Mr P told it, so I dont think that its checks  were reasonable and 
proportionate.
With this in mind, Ive had a look at Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of loan 2 with a view to 
seeing what additional checks would have likely shown Satsuma. In order  to do this Ive 
considered Mr Ps credit file and I can see he had four outstanding loans with other short 
term lenders with repayments  totalling £451  for these four loans. On top of this, Mr Ps 
repayments for his two Satsuma loans wouldve meant he was repaying over £680 a month  
alone to short term lenders against  a £1,800 monthly income. 
In these circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable for Satsuma to think  Mr P could  
sustainably meet his repayments over the term of the loan. So, Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint about  loan 2. 
additional information 
Mr P has said that Satsuma did not fully inform him of the consequences of missing  his 
repayment in August  2018. The customer contact notes provided by Satsuma shows  Mr P 
called on 24 August 2018 to ask for some breathing space following a football  injury. 
Subsequently, Satsuma  agreed for no payment to be made for that month.  It appears  
something prompted Mr P to call back five days after this was agreed. And this is when he 
discovered his account was in arrears.
Whilst I dont know  exactly what was agreed between Mr P and Satsuma, I can see once 
Mr P was aware of the arrears on his account  he made his repayments for both loans as well 
as an extra repayment  for September 2018,  bringing his loan accounts up to date. It doesnt 
appear that Satsuma  actually recorded any arrears on Mr Ps account at this time And it 
doesnt appear that at the time that any adverse  credit file information was reported either.
Whilst Satsuma has accepted it could have given  clearer information  about  the 
consequences of Mr P not making his repayment,  I dont think its unreasonable  that 
Satsuma has apologised  in these circumstances. So Im not going to ask it to do anything  
different.
I can see that Satsuma has updated Mr Ps credit file from December 2018,  but this is likely 
due to Mr P paying a reduced amount of between £1 and then £2 per month towards  his 
loans. However, I would like to remind Satsuma that any information it does record  on Mr Ps 
credit file should be accurate. And that it should continue  to treat Mr P fairly  whilst he is still 
repaying his loans.
Putting things  right  what  Satsuma needs to do
Satsuma should remove  all unpaid  interest and charges from loan 2, meaning Mr P 
only has to repay  the principle sum for this loan. Satsuma should then apply all 
payments made by Mr P as if they had been repayments towards the principal sum 
lent. 
Ref: DRN30829644If after doing this, Mr P has already paid enough for loan 2 to be fully repaid, then any 
overpayment needs to be refunded, from the date the over payment became due to 
the date of settlement. In addition Satsuma  would  need  to pay interest  of 8%* simple  
a year on any over payment from the date it became due to the date of settlement.
Satsuma can then use any overpayment  to offset against any outstanding balance 
for loan 1. If after the offset, Mr P still owes an outstanding balance,  then Satsuma 
should try and agree an arrangement with Mr P to repay the balance.
Satsuma should remove  any negative about loan 2 from Mr Ps credit file once the 
loan has been  repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should pay Mr P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3082964