K821x#15complaint
Mr C complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  added unfair bank charges to 
his account over a number of years.
background
In 2011, Mr C says he came into financial difficulty when his wife was in an accident.  He 
says this is when  he started going over his agreed overdraft limit and this is when Halifax  
started applying charges  to his current account.
Halifax says the charges  were correctly applied to Mr Cs account and it doesnt have any 
record of Mr C letting it know he was in financial difficulty   until it received his complaint in 
2018. It then sent its final response to Mr C  and recommended  that he speak to its Money 
Management Team  if he was still experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr C says he didnt call Halifax to let it know he was experiencing difficulties, but he did 
mention this to someone when he visited a branch of Halifax.
Halifax sent Mr C a final response letter offering him some compensation, but it says this 
letter was sent in error and it didnt intend  to offer Mr C anything.  It then sent Mr C another  
final response a few days later with no offer in it.
Our adjudicator thought Halifax was entitled  to apply the charges to Mr Cs account and that 
he didnt think Halifax were aware  Mr C was in financial difficulty. But he did think  Halifax  
caused Mr C some trouble and upset when it incorrectly  sent Mr C a letter offering him some 
compensation. Our adjudicator thought that £75 was a fair amount to settle the complaint. 
Halifax agreed with our adjudicator. But Mr C wanted the offer increased to cover  half of the 
bank charges that had been applied to his account.
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2009 the Supreme Court decided  that bank charges couldnt be challenged for being too 
high. I have to take this into account in my decision.  Looking at the charges, I think they 
were added correctly  and in line with the accounts  terms and conditions.  So I dont think 
Halifax has done anything  wrong  in adding  the charges to Mr Cs account.
Ref: DRN30748192If Halifax knew Mr C was in financial difficulty it had to treat him positively and 
sympathetically. Our adjudicator said hed seen nothing to show  Mr C ever told Halifax he 
was in financial difficulty  until he made  his complaint to it in 2018. Mr C has disagreed with 
what our adjudicator said, and said he told someone  in a branch of Halifax that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty. But I havent  seen anything from Halifax  that tells me Mr C 
made it aware he was experiencing  difficulties.  And Halifax  had a responsibility to record this 
information. And as it hasnt been  recorded Im not persuaded that Mr C made  his situation 
and distress sufficiently clear for Halifax to record it.
Ive also looked  at how Mr C was using his account  to see if Halifax shouldve reasonably 
known he was in financial difficulty. From what Ive seen  I dont  think  Halifax  shouldve  
known. Mr Cs account had regular payments coming into it, was being  used for day-to-day 
expenditure and wasnt  always overdrawn. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Halifax  knew  or shouldve known Mr C was in 
financial difficulty until he told it when he made his complaint. And I think  that - since then - 
Halifax has acted positively and sympathetically about Mr Cs money problems.  I say this 
because Ive seen  a letter that shows Halifax directing  Mr C to its Money Management 
Team if he was still experiencing  financial difficulties, so its done what  it needed to do here. 
And because I think the bank charges  were  applied correctly to Mr Cs account,  I wont be 
asking Halifax to refund any of these charges to Mr C.
But I do think that Halifax caused Mr C some trouble and upset when it sent him a letter in 
error  offering  to refund some of the bank charges. I understand that Halifax later sent Mr C 
an updated letter where it retracted the offer by not including  it in the more  recent  letter. I 
think what happened here is likely to have caused  some upset to Mr C, and I think  that 
Halifax could have  dealt  with this a bit better. But I agree with the settlement of £75 that has 
already been offered to Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  So I dont think it 
has to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, it is my decision that this suggested settlement is fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances. Consequently  I direct Bank  of Scotland  Plc, trading as 
Halifax to pay Mr C £75 within 28 days of the date of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3074819