K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about how Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited  dealt with a claim 
against their multicar motor insurance  policy. 
background
In July 2018, Mrs O had an accident  whilst driving. She reversed into a parked car. The 
owner of the other car made a claim  against Mr and Mrs Os policy. In September  2018,  
Admiral settled the other drivers claim. The total settlement  was over £5,700, £2,045.74 of 
which was for repairs. 
In January 2019, Admiral sent Mrs O a renewal  quote. Mr O was expecting the premium to 
increase because there had been  two claims in 2018 but he thought  that the increase was 
excessive. Mr O asked Admiral  about the cost of the claim arising out of Mrs Os accident in 
July 2018 and he was surprised to learn  about  the extent of the repair costs.  
Mr and Mrs O say that the damage to the other drivers parked car was caused when Mrs O 
reversed into it at a very slow speed  and that the damage was minimal. They  say that the 
damage was to the passenger door but the costs of repair related to the door, rear quarter 
panel and wheel. Mr and Mrs O are concerned that Admiral took the other  drivers  claim  at 
face value and that, as a result, the cost of their insurance will increase excessively and 
unnecessarily. 
Mr and Mrs O want  Admiral to review  the cost of renewal of their policy,  to take into account 
that the cost of the claim was excessive  and inaccurate. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Admiral had 
treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly. The investigator  said whilst he appreciated that Mr and Mrs O 
had opinions  about the extent of the damage,  Admiral had received an estimate  and its 
engineers had agreed it. He said that Admiral  would have wanted  to keep the costs as low 
as possible. The investigator hadnt  seen anything to show  that the other drivers claim was 
excessive or inaccurate. He said that the renewal premium was correct  and in line with 
Admirals pricing criteria.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigator. Mr O said he knows how Admiral  broke  
down the costs between repair and other elements, like replacement car hire. He says he 
saw the damage  to the other car and he cant accept that the figure  for the repair element 
was reasonable,  as it was disproportionate.  Mr O questions Admirals  due diligence  in 
relation to the required repairs. He says that Admiral are in a position to recover  its costs 
from a large number of policies and he wants to know the controls  and checks  Admiral has 
in place to determine the extent of the damage and the subsequent  settlement. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32950122This service isnt the regulator and we cant direct an insurer  generally about  how it deals 
with claims. But I can look at whether it treated Mr and Mrs O in accordance with the policy  
terms and conditions and fairly. I think it did and Ill explain  why.
The policy provides that Admiral  is entitled  to conduct the settlement of any claim on
Mr and Mrs Os behalf. That means  that Admiral  can decide how and on what  terms it deals 
with the other drivers claim. But wed expect it to do so fairly.
Ive seen that Admiral  received a detailed,  costed estimate from the other drivers garage  
and its engineer considered the matter  before  approving the work. The photographs  
accompanying the estimate show damage to more than the passenger  door of the other 
drivers car. The engineer described  the severity of impact as Medium . Based on what  Ive 
seen, I think Admiral considered all the available evidence before deciding  to authorise 
repairs. As the investigator  said, its not in Admirals  interest to pay an inflated claim.  
The February 2019 renewal premium  quote for Mrs O was substantially  higher than the 
February 2018 premium.  There were  two previous fault incidents.  When calculating  
premiums, insurers  take into consideration a very large number of risk rating factors. In other  
words, they assess the level of risk each  policyholder poses and the likelihood of them 
making a claim in the future by looking  at many different factors.  Its not for me to tell Admiral  
what factors  it should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go about those 
assessments. Thats essentially a matter  of commercial  judgement  and its not something 
with which  we would usually think its fair to interfere.
Admiral has provided me with information to show how the 2019 premium was calculated. 
That information is commercially sensitive,  so I cant share it with Mr and Mrs O. Ive 
looked at it carefully  and Im satisfied  that Admiral  treated Mr and Mrs O in the same  way 
as it would treat other policyholders in similar circumstances. So, I think  it calculated his 
premium reasonably.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs O but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that 
Admiral treated them unfairly.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3295012