K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that CIS General Insurance Limited held her liable under her motor 
insurance policy following  an accident.  She wants her No Claims Discount (NCD) and 
premiums to be unaffected by the claim. 
background
Mrs Ls car was being towed backwards  out of snow by another  car. Mr I, Mrs Ls husband 
and a named  driver on the policy,  was driving  her car. Mrs L said the towing driver told them  
to keep the car in-line using the steering and wing mirrors but not to touch the accelerator or 
brakes. The towing  car braked and Mrs Ls car collided with it. CIS held her liable as it said 
Mr I had full control of the car whilst it was being  towed.  It said he should have applied the 
brakes. Mrs L didnt agree. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  CIS 
decision on liability was fair and reasonable. He also explained that as Mrs Ls NCD was 
protected, she wouldnt lose this. He thought  her premium  may go up at renewal whether the 
claim was fault or non-fault.  
Mr I replied that he couldnt have braked and avoided the collision as he was looking at the 
side mirrors and didnt see the gap between the two vehicles. He wanted an engineers  
inspection which he thought would show he wasnt in control. He questioned the towing 
drivers actions. He thought hed accelerated and then braked, so causing the collision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ls and Mr Is frustration with being  held liable when they are sure the 
collision wasnt their fault. But Im unable to uphold their complaint. Ill now explain why I 
think this. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
CIS is entitled under the terms  and conditions of its policy  with Mrs L to take over,  defend, or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mrs L has to follow its advice in connection  with the settlement of 
a claim,  whether  she agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably  
investigate a claim and consider  the evidence before making its decision on liability.
Ive looked at the information Mr I provided about the collision. He told CIS that he wasnt 
aware of what was going on behind him as he was being towed backwards. He said the 
distance between  the two vehicles was short. Mr I was sitting  in the driving seat. So I think 
CIS reasonably considered that he was in control of the car as he was steering it and had 
access to the brakes. I think it reasonably concluded that it was for Mr I to be aware of what 
was happening with the car and to apply the brakes  if needed.
Ref: DRN32200152Mr I said the towing driver told him not to apply the brakes. He said he accelerated and then 
braked causing  the collision. But I cant see that there are any independent witnesses to 
corroborate what Mr I said. So I dont think this is something that CIS should  have  further 
considered.
Mr I also thought CIS should have obtained engineering reports  on the damage. But I dont 
think this would have  added further evidence  for CIS to consider as it wouldnt have 
confirmed the speed of the collision. 
So I think CIS reasonably  investigated the claim and considered the evidence available  
before making  its decision on liability. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that it did anything wrong. 
As far as I can see, CIS settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis. So Mrs L is able to 
pursue the matter legally  at her own cost if she so wishes. I think this was fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3220015