K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy at a meeting in 2006 at the same  time as taking a mortgage  which  
started in 2007.  The policy provided  cover for accident, sickness and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £326 a month towards Mrs Bs 
mortgage balance  for a successful claim and cost around £20 a month at the time.
Mrs B was employed as a store assistant and had been there  a year and a half at the time, 
according to her mortgage application. From what shes told us, she was entitled to less than 
three months full sick pay and redundancy pay and didnt have anything  else,  like savings, 
to pay her mortgage if she couldnt work.
Mrs B has told us of a health issue for which she was treated 30 years before the sale and 
with which  she missed  a couple  of days work at a time. Shes also told us of a health issue  
she suffered with 12 years before the sale but hasnt said she ever missed any work or had 
any treatment or continuing  problems because  of it. Shes also told us of stitches she had for 
an injury with which she missed 10 days work  more  than five years  before the sale and of a 
health issue she suffered  many years after the sale.
As well as these issues, Mrs B has told us of a health issue that, from what she has told us, 
she suffered around  11 months before the mortgage meeting and just over a year before  the 
mortgage started.  From what shes told us of that issue, she had received treatment for it 
and hadnt missed any work as a result of it.
Barclays has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account  started  in 2007. Mrs Bs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs Bs 
representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Bs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Barclays should have told Mrs B 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs B and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN34794452The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint. Its also relevant to note that there have for some time been  
codes governing the sale of insurance  products such as PPI. There is much in common 
between the present statutory regulatory  regime and the non-statutory  provisions that 
preceded it (and, indeed,  the position  at law).
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN34794453GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Barclays  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN34794454-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The mortgage application papers asked 
whether or not Mrs B needed the cover  and said the PPI was optional and not a condition of 
taking a mortgage. On her application a box was ticked to accept the PPI  and there was a 
section below for her to sign if she wanted to turn down the cover  instead. The cost of the 
cover was also set out separately and Mrs B signed  a separate  declaration to take it. The 
mortgage offer said Mrs B didnt have to take insurance with Barclays and told her the only 
insurance she had to have in place  was buildings insurance.
So, taking everything  into account, I think its likely Mrs B knew the PPI was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it provided  advice during this sale. Mrs B doesnt recall whether advice was 
given or not. The application papers set out a recommendation Barclays  gave for the cover. 
With all this in mind, what I have persuades me Barclays gave advice. This means it had to 
advise Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate 
or suitable given  her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was said, the documentary  evidence suggests Barclays  took 
some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B. The 
adviser had some information about  Mrs Bs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage 
application  for example her age, employment status and length of service. 
A demands  and needs statement was also completed to try and establish whether the 
policy was suitable  for Mrs B  by asking questions  about her wider circumstances such as 
her health  and other means she had to pay her mortgage. It looks like Barclays  asked her 
what problems she would  have paying her mortgage  in case of accident, sickness or 
unemployment - and asked about  her sick pay and whether  she had existing insurance. It 
also looks like Barclays asked Mrs B if shed had any treatment for or seen a doctor about 
any medical condition  shed suffered in the previous  12 months  and she said no.
But I dont think Barclays did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, Ive 
nothing to show that Barclays asked Mrs B whether  she had an existing illness or an injury  
or had suffered symptoms of a health  issue in the last year for which she hadnt been  treated 
or seen  a doctor.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs B given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN34794455While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have to make  sure the policy  was suitable 
for Mrs B, I do think its more likely than not the PPI was ultimately  suitable  for her. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy. 
-Mrs B had a need for the policy   even allowing for the sickness and redundancy pay to 
which shes told us she was entitled, it seems likely  she would suffer a significant drop in 
income if she were not working for an extended  period. Also,  based on what Ive seen, it 
seems likely that in that situation  her finances and ability to meet her mortgage payments 
would also be put under strain.
-According to the mortgage offer, most  of the loan was to be used  to refinance existing 
borrowing, although a small amount of extra borrowing was taken.  Mrs B has told us the 
borrowing was for home improvements.  Her mortgage application said Mrs B wasnt 
having payment  problems with her existing borrowing at the time, and it set out how the 
mortgage would also reduce the amount she was paying  each month  on her borrowing. 
Even allowing  for the extra  borrowing  Mrs B decided  to take at the time, the monthly  
saving was significant and many times greater than the PPI cost. So, although  Mrs B has 
said she was financially stretched at the time,  what Ive seen suggests the PPI and the 
monthly cost was unaffordable for Mrs B.
-Mrs B has told us of a health issue she suffered  or was treated for just over a year before  
the policy started.  Its unlikely she couldve claimed  if she was off work in future as a 
result of this issue. But from what shes told us, she hadnt missed any work when she 
first suffered it or was treated for it or in the months between  when it first happened or 
was treated and the mortgage  meeting. In view of all this, and bearing in mind  everything 
else Mrs B has told us about the issue, taking everything into account I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Barclays to consider that a work absence due to this issue  was 
unlikely enough  that its exclusion from cover didnt  make the policy  unsuitable for Mrs B. 
-Mrs B has told us of a health condition she had 30 years before the sale.  She told us she 
took medicine for it and that incidences of it led her to miss a couple of days work at a 
time. If these incidences were still occurring  at the time of the sale, it wouldve still been 
reasonable in my view, given all Mrs B has told us about the condition, for Barclays to 
suppose these unlikely in future  to lead to significantly longer work absences  than they 
had led to in the previous 30 years. Mrs B hasnt  told us she suffered symptoms  of this 
health issue in the 12 months before the sale but in any event, with all Ive said above  in 
mind, I think  it wouldve been reasonable for Barclays to consider a significant work 
absence arising  from this health issue unlikely  enough for the PPI to still be suitable for 
Mrs B even  if such an absence wouldve been  excluded.
-Mrs B has told us of a health issue she suffered  12 years before the sale. The PPI would 
have been covered  this issue so long as Mrs B hadnt, in the 12 months before the policy  
start, had symptoms, treatment or advice from a doctor for it. The statement of demands 
and needs says Mrs B answered  at the mortgage meeting that she hadnt  seen a doctor  
for or been treated  for any medical condition shed suffered  in the previous 12 months. 
From what  shes  told us, shed  never  in the 12 years before the sale had symptoms  of 
this health issue  that required time off work, treatment  or the attention of a doctor.  Also, 
Mrs B hasnt  told us of having suffered  any symptoms of this issue in the 12 months 
before she took the PPI. So, with all this in mind, what I have doesnt persuade me that 
Mrs B wouldnt have  been able to claim  for time off work arising from this health issue if 
Ref: DRN34794456she suffered from it again after the policy start.  So I dont think the PPI exclusions made 
Barclays recommendation of the PPI to Mrs B unsuitable by virtue  of her having  suffered 
in the past from this heath issue.
-Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mrs B wouldve been affected  by any of the other  policy 
exclusions. There was nothing about her employment or occupation  which wouldve 
made it difficult for her to claim.  Also there  were  no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including  that the first 60 days 
of any disability or unemployment wasnt covered, the fact the policy would pay benefits 
for a maximum of 24 months for each  claim and the fact that to claim for disability Mrs B 
had to be unable  to do her normal job and unable  to do any other work her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do), the PPI still provided  valuable cover 
given Mrs Bs circumstances  and the likelihood her income would fall significantly if she 
wasnt able to work once her work  benefits  ended. Also,  as the policy  was to cover  the 
mortgage payments  on Mrs Bs home,  I bear in mind the potential  consequences were  
Mrs B to have become unable make payments on loans  secured against  her house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Barclays was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs B was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that it would protect  her payments if she were unable to work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mrs B would have taken the policy  without any 
sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might  be.
Also, the statement  of demands and needs for the PPI referred to Mrs Bs short-term 
accident, sickness and unemployment  needs   so this wouldve given her some idea of 
what the policy was for. Also, a statement  of price set out for Mrs B the monthly PPI benefit 
amount and the monthly cost of the PPI. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Barclays  gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before she agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B, Im not persuaded Barclays  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Barclays gave her all the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN34794457In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs B has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs B. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not she 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Barclays done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs B, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mrs B would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy 
in any event. Mrs B says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs B had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Barclays advised her there was a suitable product she could 
buy that would protect  her mortgage  payments in the event  she were unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. 
Ref: DRN34794458But she made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  she thought she 
was getting is not exactly  what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. As Ive 
also already explained, the information  Mrs B was given about  the cost and benefit was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.  Possibly the most significant differences  
between what Mrs B thought she had bought  and what she actually bought, were:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  that in the 12 months before the 
policy start Mrs B had consulted or been treated  by a medical practitioner for or had 
symptoms of  although these exclusions wouldnt apply if in the two years  before the 
claim Mrs B hadnt consulted or been treated by a medical practitioner  or had symptoms. 
It also excluded claims for absences related to any illness or accidental  injury Mrs B had 
had before the policy start;
To claim for disability  (if in paid employment  at the time of the claim) Mrs B had to be 
stopped from doing  her normal  job or any other paid work her experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; 
The policy didnt cover the first 60 days of disability and after that protected payments for 
up to 24 months rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage  (if Mrs B wasnt  in paid 
employment at the start of a disability,  the benefit after 12 months was limited  to any 
extra ongoing costs  incurred as a result  of her disability and its treatment); and
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs B wasnt  
a permanent employee.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  the policy.
But the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality.
Based on what I have, it seems likely it wouldve been some time before Mrs B wouldve 
been symptom  free for two years and able to claim for work  absences resulting from the 
health issue for which she was treated a year or so before the policy started. Its also likely  
absences due to the condition shed  had 30 years before the sale and for which  shed 
missed a couple of days work at a time, wouldnt have been covered if this was still ongoing.
But, from what shes told us, Mrs B hadnt  missed any work  when  she first suffered or was 
treated for the most recent issue or in the months  between then and the mortgage  meeting. 
And Ive nothing to suggest she had reason to think she might suffer longer work absences  
from the other condition  than the short absences shed had in the 30 years that had passed 
since she first had it. Also, based  on what I have, I think it likely Mrs B wouldve been able to 
claim were she to have suffered future  work absences from the health issue shed had 12 
years earlier.  And I havent seen  anything to suggest she wouldve been  caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So, I think she still had some  good reasons to take the PPI.
Ref: DRN34794459The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she were not only unable to do her 
normal job but also unable to do any other  paid work  her experience, education or training 
qualified her to do, it might have played  into her thinking about  what  to do. And I accept it 
may have  given her pause for thought   although,  given her circumstances, on balance  I 
think she would have  still been interested in taking the cover.  
Barclays may not have  told Mrs B that the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered  and any claim she made would be limited to a 720 day period. This may 
have differed from what she expected and mightve hoped  for. But given the loss of income  
she would  suffer were  she unable  to work  for an extended period, and taking into account all 
Ive already said above about her circumstances,  I consider it likely Mrs B wouldve still 
thought a policy that paid up to 24 benefit payments towards the mortgage  would  have been  
of benefit to her and would help her manage  the consequences should she be unable to 
work in the circumstances covered  by the policy.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs B would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mrs B would have taken the policy in 
any event - notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN347944510Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  That is because,  while I accept it is possible she would not have taken 
the policy, I am satisfied  that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still 
have taken the PPI had she been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware Mrs B thinks  Barclays misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mrs B, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs B and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3479445