K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr T says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time thats passed since the sale, theres  some uncertainty  about how this policy 
was sold. HSBC cant confirm the sales channel or if they made  a recommendation to take 
PPI or not. Mr T also cant remember  how the PPI was sold but thought it may have been in 
a meeting. Ive considered that this policy was sold in a meeting where  HSBC  made a 
recommendation to take PPI. 
I say this because  this places more reasonability on HSBC as it means  that they had to take 
reasonable steps to check that the policy was right for Mr T. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:  
Mr T says he would not knowingly have opted for PPI. Unfortunately  there arent any 
notes available  of the meeting, and understandably Mr T might  not recall  it clearly 
after so long. There are also no documents available  to me from the time of the sale,  
which is not at all surprising considering  the sale took place over 20 years ago. 
So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with Mr T. In order  for me to 
uphold this Id have to think that Mr Ts account  was more likely than that of HSBC.  
But as these events  happened so long ago, and as theres no documentary evidence 
to support either  partys position,  I have to conclude that Mr Ts account is only as 
likely not more likely. 
So on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policy was added without his consent 
or that Mr T wasnt  given  a choice about  PPI.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:  
Ref: DRN34271562When the policy was sold,  HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr T about  that. 
Because HSBC  didnt  tell Mr T, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said - including what  hes said about his sick pay 
from his employer. But when Ive considered all of the evidence in this particular case, Ive 
not seen persuasive  evidence  that this particular policy was mis-sold. So these points dont 
change my decision.
what the business needs  to do 
HSBC has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mr T any extra interest  he paid 
because of that. 
HSBC should  pay back to Mr T the extra  he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC  should also pay Mr T 8%* 
simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But HSBC  Bank Plc does,  if it hasnt already done so, have to pay back  to Mr T any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3427156