K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that Santander UK Plc, trading  as Abbey National, (Santander)  mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  called Paymentcare.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy in 2003 when  he applied for a further advance on his mortgage. 
The policy was to cover  Mr M. In the event of a successful claim, if he wasnt able to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  it would have paid a monthly  amount of 
£188 for up to 12 months per claim. The policy cost £11.35 per month when it was taken out. 
Mr M took an additional further advance in 2007  and increased the amount the policy  
covered. At the point  this complaint was brought to us, the mortgage was still running. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
After doing so, Ive decided  that Mr Ms policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he wasnt told he could purchase the cover elsewhere. He also said that he didnt 
feel the terms and conditions were properly explained to him or that additional interest 
charged because  of the PPI was made clear. 
Ive looked at whether Santander made Mr M aware  he had a choice about  buying the PPI. 
The further advance  and PPI were taken  out nearly  20 years ago so there  is little paperwork 
from the time of the sale which I dont find unusual. And businesses arent obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinitely. 
But Santander has been able to give us sample documents  which it says would have been in 
use at the time and I have no reason to conclude similar documents  would have been used 
in Mr Ms case  and similar processes followed.  
Mr Ms recollection is that the policy was taken during a meeting, but Santander has been  
able to tell us it was sold over phone which I think is the most  likely method of sale because 
of the records Santander  has been able to give us. But again, because  of the length of time 
since the sale I dont  find it surprising Mr M might not remember all of the details from the 
time. 
Santander hasnt  been able to give us a copy of a recording  of the phone call, but it has 
been able to give us a copy  of the demands  and needs document  it say its representative  
would have followed as part of the call. I note that as part of that process the Paymentcare 
policy would have been discussed  questions would  have  been  asked about whether the 
consumer had any current cover  if they were  unable to work, whether they wanted to take 
Ref: DRN34218352the Paymentcare and if so, what cover was needed   accident and sickness  only, 
unemployment only or both. There were  also some questions about  eligibility  for the cover. 
Clearly, I cant  know what  was actually said during  the call but in the absence  of any 
evidence to the contrary, and taking into account what  Mr M has said,  I think  it more  likely 
that such a process  was carried out by Santanders representative when the policy  was sold 
to Mr M. The need for the policy was established and the policy  subsequently  discussed. 
Santander has also said that Mr M would have needed to complete  and sign a PPI 
application and a direct  debit mandate  for the PPI to be set up. It cant provide  copies  of 
those documents  but as the policy was taken, I have no reason to assume  that Mr M didnt 
complete and return those  documents. And if he hadnt wanted  the PPI, I would have 
expected him to question these documents. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think it most likely Mr M was made  aware the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it. 
Mr M has said that he wasnt given any advice at the time of the sale,  but Santander has told 
us it recommended the policy  to him. And because of the information it likely gathered about       
Mr Ms circumstances  at the time of the sale, I think it most likely advice was given, and a 
personalised recommendation made to Mr M. So, Santander had to make sure the policy 
was right for him and based on what  I know  of his circumstances  at the time,  I think it was 
suitable. Ill explain why. 
Mr M was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt  anything in the policy that would 
have made  it more difficult for him to claim  for example, Mr M was in permanent 
employment and he didnt tell us of any pre-existing medical conditions. So, he wouldnt 
have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.  
The PPI gave Mr M benefits for up to 12 months  in the event of a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or redundancy. This would have been paid on top of any employment 
benefits Mr M would  have received, and for longer. So, any employment benefits could have 
been used for other essential  outgoings in what would have been a difficult  time. And the 
savings Mr M has told us about could have remained intact or used for their original purpose. 
Mr M was solely responsible for making the mortgage repayments  a long-term debt 
secured against  his home. Given the serious  consequences of missing mortgage  
repayments, overall, I think the policy would have been useful if Mr M had lost his job or was 
too unwell  to work. 
Its possible Santander could have explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale. So, I dont think  
better information about the costs would  have put Mr M off from taking out the cover. And 
this type of PPI did not attract interest.  
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. I cant know  for sure what was said to Mr M during the sale and its possible he 
wasnt given all of the details he should  have  been  given. However, for the same reasons 
Ive found the policy  was suitable, I dont think better information would have changed  his 
decision to take the policy. I say this because Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main exclusions or limitations, the PPI apparently wasnt  unaffordable, and I think 
Mr M would have thought  it useful   it gave him a financial  comfort he wouldnt  otherwise 
have had. 
Ref: DRN34218353Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give back to Mr M some of the 
commission he paid. The Supreme Court rulings  and rules and guidance dont  apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr Ms 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So, Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr M paid for the PPI he had with the 
mortgage.
Mr Ms representative has raised  a number  of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3421835