K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy about the way her claim was dealt  with by Liverpool  Victoria  Friendly 
Society Limited (LV).  
background
Mrs L had a sick pay insurance policy with LV and it started on 20 November 2014. The 
policy was set up to continue on a rolling basis until such time that Mrs L cancelled it, retired  
or reached  the age of 70. The premium was paid monthly. Mrs L is a self-employed  
contractor and renewed her contract every three months. 
Mrs L hadnt been well since January  2018.  So in April 2018, she called LV to ask if she 
could make a claim as she wasnt able to work  due to her ill health. In the call, LV asked how 
long shed been off work  and Mrs L said shed worked from home  on and off but officially  
stopped working  on 28 March 2018. The advisor  told Mrs L that as she hadnt  been off work 
for 28 consecutive days, she wasnt able to make a claim. 
As her symptoms got progressively worse, Mrs L couldnt renew her work contract and was 
therefore unable  to work. Mrs Ls health  got worse and she suffered financial hardship. As 
she wasnt working, she had to borrow money  to pay her mortgage and incurred late 
payment fees and charges on her credit card and overdraft. 
She called LV again in November 2018. This time,  the advisor referred  the matter  to a senior 
assessor and LV agreed to pay the claim. It also said that the claim should have been 
accepted from when Mrs L called in April 2018. 
LV apologised, sent Mrs L some supermarket vouchers and paid her the following:
£7166.67 for the backdated claim from April to November 2018;
£573.33 as the 8% simple interest  on the backdated claim payment;
£899.56 for the bank fees and interest charges;
£71.96 as the 8% simple interest on the bank  fees and interest charged;
£105.60 for a prescription  penalty  charge; and
£1,500.00  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
LV made a total payment of £10,317.12. Mrs L wasnt happy with this amount as she also 
wanted LV to pay her self-assessment  tax bill. 
She referred  her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked  into the matter and said 
he thought LVs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the complaint. He 
didnt think LV needed to do anything further. 
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  assessment  and asked for an ombudsman  to make a 
decision. So the case has been passed to me. 
Mrs L says theres been damage to her reputation  as a result of the claim not being 
accepted when she called in April 2018.  If her claim had been processed in April, she would 
have been treated by her doctor sooner and not had to wait until November 2018  to be 
finally seen. She says her treatment  started  in December  2018 and if it had started  sooner, 
she would  have recovered in six months  rather than the 12 months that its taken. She was 
Ref: DRN36116992earning little money  then and had to use every  credit card and overdraft she had. Shes not 
well and unable to look after her son.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that I appreciate Mrs L has been through a difficult  time  both in terms 
of her own health and the financial circumstances that resulted from her claim not being 
accepted sooner. 
While Ive considered  all the available evidence, as the claim has been  accepted  and the 
payment has been made, the key issue which I now need to decide is whether or not I think 
the offer made by LV is fair and reasonable. 
LV has made an offer which has taken into account  the error made by it in April 2018. The 
offer consisted of the following:
An apology and acceptance of the error  made by LV. It sent some  supermarket 
vouchers as soon  as the error came to light; 
The claim was back-dated to April 2018  and 8% simple interest was paid; 
Payment was made for relevant fees and charges and 8% simple interest was 
added; 
A prescription penalty charge was refunded; and
Compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  was paid.
Wed expect LV to put Mrs L in the position  she would have been had the error  not 
happened. Having looked at the total offer, I think its in line with our approach and with what  
wed expect LV to do. I also think its appropriate in the circumstances of the complaint. 
LV has taken into account that the impact of its error fell into what  this service would 
categorise as a substantial error  especially because it had a negative,  knock-on effect on 
Mrs Ls health and her financial situation. So in recognition of the error,  it offered £1,500.00 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused and looking at what happened, I 
think thats fair.
I understand Mrs L would  like LV to also pay her self-assessment tax bill. But Im not 
persuaded that would  be fair. This is because Mrs L wouldve always  had the self-
assessment bill regardless  of the error that happened. So while I accept she would ordinarily 
have used her business  account  to pay the bill but had to use the money  in that account  for 
her day to day expenses  instead,  she has now been appropriately compensated by LV and I 
think thats reasonable. LV has put Mrs L back in the position she wouldve been.
I note Mrs Ls concerns about the impact this issue has had on her credit  file. I completely 
understand. However, as LV has accepted it made  an error, Mrs L should now be able to   
approach the agencies  and ask for her credit file to be corrected. 
Overall, Im satisfied the offer made by LV is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I dont think it needs  to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN36116993my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I conclude that the offer made to Mrs L by Liverpool Victoria  
Friendly Society Limited is fair in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3611699