K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained about pension  advice she received from Face  To Face Financial 
Solutions Limited (FTF) in 2017. She was advised to switch her pension  from an existing 
stakeholder plan to a personal pension with a new provider. She says the advice was 
unsuitable and that FTF recorded  incorrect information about her personal circumstances.
background
Ms W took advice in 2017.  She had been  a customer  of FTF for a number of years. She held 
a stakeholder pension which she had started in 2004. This had a value of around  £24,000.  
Ms W was approaching 55 years of age, the age at which she may be able to access her 
pension benefits  under the pensions freedoms.
A fact-find  was completed and this recorded, amongst other things, that Ms W was a home  
owner with an outstanding  mortgage and had an income of £4,000 per year. 
A suitability  report was completed which recommended a pension switch to a new provider. 
The new pension had lower  annual charges and also allowed flexible access  to pension  
benefits from 55. The existing pension didnt provide  this.
The suitability report also noted that Ms W was a home-owner with a mortgage. This was 
signed by Ms W.
The switch  went ahead  and Ms W has taken some benefits from the new pension.
Ms W complained in 2018.  She was initially  assisted  by a claims management company but 
referred the complaint to this service  personally.
FTF didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service.  Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. He noted that the focus  of the complaint  by Ms W 
appeared to be the fact FTF had recorded incorrect  information about her personal 
circumstances. Ms W insisted that she wasnt a home-owner and rented  her home. She 
provided evidence  of this and also that her income  was lower than recorded in the fact-find.  
She had signed  the suitability report but she said this was only because the adviser had 
presented it to her and asked her to sign it. But the investigator explained that he didnt think  
Ms Ws mortgage  situation or income were  critical to the advice she had been given. The 
new plan was cheaper and allowed flexible access to benefits which she had wanted and 
actually taken advantage of.
Ms W didnt  agree. She reiterated  that FTF had recorded incorrect information.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything but will limit my 
decision to those issues which I think are central to the complaint. I agree with the 
investigator. I dont  uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN39378832The documentary evidence suggests  that Ms W was taking advice to review  her pension as 
it hadnt been reviewed for ten years  or so. A recorded objective was for Ms W to be able to 
access her pension benefits early which her existing pension didnt allow.  That seems to be 
a legitimate objective and it is what actually happened after the switch took place.
Its also true that the new plan had lower  annual charges, although  there was the immediate 
cost of 5 per cent for the advisor fees.  So the lower  charges alone may not have justified the 
switch.
Ms W says that her personal information  wasnt correct. She was not a home-owner  with a 
mortgage and her earnings  were overstated. Im satisfied that Ms W doesnt  have  a 
mortgage and that her income wasnt correctly recorded. But FTF point out that she has 
signed the suitability report which included this apparently incorrect information. In response  
to that Ms W says that she was just presented with documents and asked to sign them.
It is quite strange that such fundamental matters of fact have not been correctly recorded.  So 
Ive considered what impact that may have had on the advice. Having done that, I agree with 
the investigator that in this particular case it would probably not have made  any difference to 
the advice Ms W was given. Thats mainly  because Ms W seems to have had a specific  
objective which was to access benefits  early.  This meant that a switch was necessary as her 
existing plan didnt  allow for this. I dont think her mortgage status  or income  would have any 
major impact on the advice in these circumstances. 
The new plan met Ms Ws specific objective  of accessing benefits early  and the investments 
in the new plan appear to match her recorded  attitude to risk  balanced. Its also less 
expensive in terms of annual charges. So overall, I dont think the recommendation was 
unsuitable for her.
So whilst I do understand Ms Ws concerns, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3937883