K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained Tesco Personal Finance PLC t/as Tesco  Bank wont cover  the cost of 
refitting a set of kitchen  units. He paid for the kitchen units using his Tesco credit card and 
he made a claim under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
background
Mr S paid a merchant around £5,500  for the supply of a kitchen and the installation of a 
bathroom. He paid around £3,900 towards this on his Tesco credit card. The merchant 
delivered the kitchen  to Mr S in December 2017  and his own fitter installed it the following 
month. Mr S wasnt at home the day the kitchen was installed and when he returned, he 
noticed the kitchen units were  the wrong colour and there  were  a few units  missing. Mr S 
contacted the merchant  and it sent him the correct  units. However, Mr S needed the 
incorrect units taken out and the correct  units fitted, which  the merchant wasnt willing  to 
arrange. Therefore,  Mr S contacted Tesco and put in a section 75 claim for a breach of 
contract. He wanted Tesco to cover the cost of changing the units. He thought this would 
cost around £1,500. 
Tesco didnt  uphold  Mr Ss claim.  It said it couldnt  confirm the units were  the wrong colour 
because none  of the documentation specified  what colour they should  have been. Tesco  
also noted that Mr S accepted the units and was in possession of them  for around  six weeks 
prior to installation so it thought he should  have checked them  before they were  installed. 
Tesco also said the merchant had made  the correct units available  so the agreement had 
been fulfilled.  Finally, Tesco pointed out that the installation of the kitchen wasnt  part of the 
contract so any problems in relation to it would  need  to be covered by Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree, so he brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought it more likely than not 
that incorrect units were supplied because she didnt think the merchant  would have 
provided replacements if they were  correct. She also didnt think  that it was fair that Tesco  
were holding Mr S responsible for not checking  the colour of the units  on delivery. She said 
there was no reason  for Mr S to check the units  because he expected  the correct goods  to 
have been sent to him. Our investigator thought Mr S had suffered a consequential loss and 
didnt think it was fair that hed have to pay to have the units  changed. So to resolve  the 
complaint, our investigator  said Mr S should submit a quote for replacing  the units  and for 
Tesco to cover the cost.  
Mr S agreed, but Tesco didnt. Tesco said that the contract was for the supply of the goods 
only, and not the fitting. It said that the merchant had remedied the breach of contract  by 
supplying the correct colour units. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said:
When considering  this complaint, I take into account the relevant law. So in Mr Ss case, 
Section 75 of the CCA makes Tesco  responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier under certain  conditions. 
Mr S complains there  has been a breach of contract  because the kitchen units  that he 
received were not of satisfactory quality  because they were not the colour he ordered. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies a term into all contracts to supply goods that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory.
Ref: DRN32024792The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory,  taking  into account the 
description of the goods, the price  paid and other relevant circumstances. 
were the units the correct  colour?
I havent seen  a contract that sets out what colour the units should  have been. But the 
merchant sent replacement units, indicating  the original set were  the wrong colour. The 
merchant doesnt  seem to have  disputed that it sent the wrong colour units in any of the 
correspondence Ive seen. I find Mr Ss account of what happened to be credible. And I find 
his actions consistent with someone that received the wrong  units. Therefore, on balance, I 
think the merchant  sent the wrong  colour units initially and there has been a breach of 
contract. 
did Mr S accept the wrong colour  units?
Tesco has referred  to the fact that Mr S could have checked the units before they were 
installed and that Mr S accepted them. However,  like our investigator, I dont see why Mr S 
would have expected to have been sent the wrong units. The kitchen wasnt due to be 
installed until the end of January 2018, so its not unusual Mr S put the units  in storage until 
they were required.  Indeed, Mr S was still making payment towards the kitchen until shortly 
before it was installed. So I dont think the fact that Mr S had the goods for six weeks meant 
he had accepted them as they were. I think the goods  were kept for this long simply because 
he was waiting to finish paying for the kitchen and for it to be installed. 
Also, I dont think that Mr S was under an obligation to check the units  when they were 
received. But Ive thought about whether it would have been clear he received the wrong  
colour units. Mr S has said the units were covered in protective film. So it wouldnt have 
been obvious they were the wrong colour. In the circumstances, I think  Mr S acted fairly by 
keeping the protective film on the units prior to installation. Considering  everything, I dont 
think Mr S accepted the wrong colour units. 
has the merchant  remedied the breach of contract?
The merchant has provided Mr S the correct units now. So it has gone some  way to 
resolving the issue. But the problem is that Mr S has already had the wrong coloured units  
installed. I dont  think its fair that Mr S loses out after having the wrong colour units  sent to 
him. But Ive also thought  about whether or not the loss hes likely to incur would have been 
reasonably foreseeable. The merchant sent Mr S the wrong colour units.  It isnt 
unforeseeable that the units would be installed prior to being  checked. So I dont  think its 
unforeseeable that there could be a cost involved in having them  taken out and 
replacements fitted. Therefore,  I think that the cost to replace the units is a consequential 
loss that has resulted  from the breach of contract. Therefore, I agree with our investigator 
that Mr S shouldnt lose out as a result of that. 
Ref: DRN32024793how should Tesco put things right?
I dont think Tesco acted  fairly in declining Mr Ss claim. And to put things right I think  it 
should cover  the cost of having  the units changed.  Mr S has only supplied  one quote  of 
£1,500 to have the units  changed. I think it would be fair for Tesco to be given  the 
opportunity to arrange to have the units changed.  So I think it should be given 60 days  to 
arrange this from the time Mr S accepts  the decision, should  he wish to do so. And if it fails 
to do so within that time, I find it fair that Tesco pays Mr Ss invoice direct with the fitter, up to 
a maximum of £1,500.  
Mr S agreed with the provisional decision,  but Tesco didnt. In summary, Tesco reiterated 
that there  is no evidence  the wrong colour  units were sent. It also said that if there was a 
breach of contract,  the breach didnt cause the losses that Mr S is claiming.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything that Tesco  has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
Ive already considered these points when  making  my provisional  decision  so I wont  repeat 
everything here. 
Tesco contacted  the merchant when  Mr S first complained. The merchant noted  that Mr Ss 
fitters had noticed the colour of the doors was wrong. And the merchant said he supplied  the 
correct doors afterwards. To me, this indicates that the merchant originally sent the wrong  
colour units. It doesnt prove it, but sometimes I have  to decide things on the balance  of 
probabilities. And, as I said in my provisional  decision, I find Mr Ss account of what 
happened to be consistent and credible. So, on balance, I think  the wrong colour units were 
originally sent and Im still of the view there  has been a breach of contract. 
Ive already set out that Mr S put the units in storage when  they were received,  and I dont 
think it would  have  been obvious that they were  the wrong colour. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to keep them in their protective  film while he waited until they were  
installed. And like Ive said, in this particular set of circumstances,  I dont think its fair that 
Mr S loses  out through having to pay to have the doors replaced  when  theres been a breach 
of contract. He wouldnt have incurred the cost had the correct  units been sent. 
Considering everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN32024794my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC t/as 
Tesco Bank should:
Arrange to fit the correct colour units  to Mr Ss kitchen.  
This should be arranged within 60 days of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision. 
If Tesco is unable to arrange to fit the correct units  within  60 days,  it should  settle  
Mr Ss invoice  direct with his fitter, up to a maximum of £1,500.
Tesco should also arrange to return the wrong colour units  to the merchant, at no cost to 
Mr S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3202479