K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit)  acted irresponsibly in giving her 
a loan in 2016. She would like a refund of all the  interest payments she has made with 8% 
statutory interest.
background
Miss M says she took out a loan for £3,200 with Avant Credit in August 2016. She says she 
doesnt understand why it agreed this loan as at the time she had an overdraft and other 
loans. And she frequently had payday  loans. 
She says AvantCredit  didnt ask for bank  statements or pay slips to confirm her income.  And 
as a result  of the AvantCredit loan repayments  she has had to borrow  from other lenders to 
pay other bills
AvantCredit said its pre approval  assessment for affordability was adequate. It said when 
Miss M applied for a loan she gave a copy of a bank statement to support her monthly net 
income and this was used  to  decide what a suitable monthly repayment amount would be. It 
also looked at the monthly  expenses Miss M put on her application form to determine  if the 
loan was affordable.  And took into account Miss Ms credit score. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that AvantCredit had done a reasonable 
credit assessment when  it agreed  the loan. She didnt feel there was any evidence it acted 
irresponsibly.
AvantCredit accepted this view but Miss M didnt.  She said she had more  loans ongoing  at 
the time she took out the AvantCredit loan than the adjudicator referred to in her view . She 
still felt the  loan was unaffordable. She wanted  the balance of her loan written  off. And all 
negative information  removed from her credit  file. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that AvantCredit  agreed  a loan with Miss M in 2016. This was for £3,200 
plus interest repayable  over 36 months  with monthly  payments  of £142.18.
I have seen the loan application Miss M made. In this she states  she had a monthly income 
of £1,526 which is confirmed by the bank statements  she has shown us.
She also stated had monthly  expenses of £1,081.00. The full figures  that make up this 
amount dont show on the screen  shot of her application that I have seen. That only lists 
expenses totalling  £258 covering mortgage,  utilities, council tax (no expense  noted),car and 
other expenses. 
AvantCredit says in agreeing to a loan and, an appropriate monthly repayment figure, it took 
into account the larger figure of £1,081.10 that Miss M gave  as her monthly expenses. 
Based on Miss Ms monthly income  that left a disposable monthly income  of £445 from 
which to make the £142.18  repayments.
Ref: DRN35655182In response to our adjudicators view Miss M has given us very different figures  for her 
monthly expenditure  for example on her loan application she gave a figure  of £150 for 
mortgage/rent  but now says this was actually £350. Other figures  also differ.
Miss M doesnt think AvantCredit  took into account her overdraft, other loans and credit card 
balances. I can see they are not listed in the screen  shot of the application that I have seen, 
but given the disparity between the £258  total of individual monthly expenses and the total 
figure of £1,081.00 that Miss M gave for expenses I think its reasonable to say she made  
some allowance for these  in the overall  sum she gave.
I think Miss M has to take some responsibility  for the information she gave when she applied  
for the loan particularly  as she now says her monthly expenditure was approximately £350  
more than she reported on her application  form. However I dont think  AvantCredit just 
considered the information Miss M gave on her application form.
I can see that AvantCredit took into account  Miss Ms monthly expenses on her active  
accounts as it has given us details of a credit report  showing this information.  This notes 
that these expenses were  £346  per month excluding any mortgage repayments. 
Miss M has disputed this figure along with other information that our adjudicator put in her 
view such as the balance  of her active accounts  of £8,886, she says it was nearer £15,000. 
The adjudicators information came from the credit report  that AvantCredit supplied  and has 
been accurately  recorded our adjudicators view.
I dont know the details of the individual loans that Miss M has referred to so I cant be sure 
why there  is such a disparity  in her figures and those on the credit report. It could simply be 
the time taken for data to appear on the credit file.
However I think, having sought a credit  report from a reputable  company, AvantCredit was 
entitled to take as accurate the information it got
I can see from the detailed credit report that AvantCredit had a lot of information for it to 
decide if to agree a loan or not .The report , for example, contained details of  previous 
defaults, last arrears status,  current short term loans and settled  short term loans along with 
other information I have  already referred  to. 
Ive also considered Miss Ms bank statements. These do show  for some time she was 
overdrawn but she remained  within the £3,000 overdraft limit she has told us she has. I am 
not sure if AvantCredit did get a copy of Miss Ms bank statements or not. If it had it would 
have seen that she was regularly overdrawn prior to applying for her loan. But some  
consumers use overdrafts  as a way of managing their money   and being within  an agreed 
overdraft limit wouldnt necessarily mean  a loan was irresponsible.
The bank statements also show that Miss M was able to pay off a significant loan in a lump 
sum. And after she got the AvantCredit  loan she seems broadly to have stayed in credit.  
Looking at this information it doesnt  seem to me that Miss M struggled to meet the 
AvantCredit repayments. 
Ultimately its a business decision for AvantCredit  to make as to who it offers loans to. But 
from the information that AvantCredit has given us I dont feel the loan or repayments that it 
agreed were unreasonable given Miss Ms expenditure, income  and the credit data 
AvantCredit had. So on that basis I dont think I can reasonably ask AvantCredit  to refund 
Ref: DRN35655183the interest payments Miss M has made  or to write off the loan balance as she later 
requested.
In response to our adjudicators view Miss M also asked that negative entries by AvantCredit  
on her credit  file were removed. Assuming  the credit  entries  are accurate I dont see any 
grounds to ask AvantCredit to do this as its important that credit  files accurately reflect how 
accounts have  been managed.
If Miss M feels that any information AvantCredit has recorded is inaccurate she needs  to 
raise that in the first instance with AvantCredit. I dont believe AvantCredit has had an 
opportunity to comment on this as it doesnt seem to be part of Miss Ms original complaint. 
Miss M can then put in a further complaint  to us if she feels  she has grounds to do so
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3565518