K820x#14complaint
Ms T made  a claim against her motor insurance policy  with esure  Insurance Limited and 
complains about  the condition  of her car following repairs.
background
Ms T had an accident whilst driving. She claimed  against her policy with esure and it 
arranged repairs. Ms T wasnt happy  about  the condition of her car when it was returned to 
her. She said that:
There was a chip in the windscreen
The seats had been adjusted.
There was food in the car.
The seatbelts were  fastened. 
The radio station  had been  changed.
One of the wheel nuts was missing.  
She had an allergic reaction to the chemicals  used  to clean the car after shed 
specifically asked  esure not to use chemicals. 
esure said that its repairer hadnt taken or lost the wheel nut or caused the chip in the 
windscreen. As a gesture  of goodwill,  it paid Ms T £36, which  it said was for the replacement 
of the wheel nut and £15 excess for the windscreen repair.  esure  said that its repairer  didnt 
use any chemicals to clean the car but, again as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to 
reimburse Ms T for the cost of having her car valeted. 
Ms T says that esure should  provide  the wheel nut, as she wasnt  prepared to order it and 
couldnt arrange for the glass repairer  to attend  to her car, so esure  should  arrange that. 
Ms T says she has no personal phone and works six or seven days a week across many 
different sites. 
Our investigator thought that esures  attempts to resolve Ms Ts complaint were fair. She 
said it wasnt reasonable to ask esure  to arrange the windscreen repair, as it wouldnt know  
whats convenient for Ms T. The investigator gave Ms T information  about how she could 
book windscreen  repair online. 
Ms T didnt agree with the investigator. She said she could prove  the chip in the windscreen 
wasnt there before the repair. Ms T said that esure could easily arrange the windscreen 
repair and it wasnt her responsibility to arrange the repair. Ms T said she was going  to sue 
esure and that shed  reported criminal damage to the police. She said that esures repairers  
shouldnt have accessed the inside  of her car.
Our investigator asked  esure if it could book the glass repair on Ms Ts behalf. It said it 
couldnt, as Ms T and the glass  repairer would need  to agree a suitable appointment and it 
didnt know Ms Ts work address. esure said that it appreciated Ms Ts difficulties but as the 
glass repairer operates 24 hours  a day, it didnt think it was unreasonable to ask Ms T to 
contact the glass  repairer  herself. 
Ms T said that the glass repairers online system doesnt find the postcode  of her work 
address, so esure should make the arrangements. 
Ref: DRN36484952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms T has very strong feelings  about  this matter. Exchanges have been quite 
heated. Ive read everything carefully  and taken it all into consideration when making my 
decision.
I give equal consideration to the information provided by both sides. Where theres a dispute 
about what happened, I base my decision on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence.
the chip in the windscreen
esure denies that its repairers caused  the chip in the windscreen. Ms T has shown us the 
form that was filled in when her car was collected for repair. It doesnt show that there was a 
chip in the windscreen.  But esure was right to point out that Ms T didnt notice the chip 
immediately on return of her car. I note Ms Ts reasons  for that but it remains  possible that 
the chip to the windscreen occurred after the car was returned  to Ms T. Im afraid theres 
insufficient evidence  to show with any certainty that esures repairers  were  responsible  for 
the chip in the windscreen. 
As a gesture  of goodwill, esure has already  paid the excess  due under Ms Ts policy if she 
has the windscreen repaired by a certain glass repairer. I think thats  fair and, strictly  
speaking, more that it needs to do. I dont  think  its reasonable to direct esure to arrange the 
repair. In the circumstances that arise here and bearing in mind that its not clear that esures  
repairers caused the chip, whilst  I note Ms Ts difficulties in arranging  the appointment 
herself, I dont think its reasonable to direct esure to attend to this. 
the missing wheel nut 
Ms T says that one of the wheel nuts was missing when her car was returned to her. esure 
denies that its repairer took the wheel nut. Ms T says that the car manufacturer  delivered a 
pack containing two wheel nuts to her work address.  esures repairer collected them and 
opened the sealed pack but only returned one wheel nut to her. On balance, I accept that 
one wheel nut was missing when esures repairers  returned the car to Ms T. esure  has 
already reimbursed Ms T for the cost of a replacement pack containing a wheel nut. I think  
thats fair.   
the condition of the cars interior
I dont think that Ms T could reasonably expect esure to repair her car without accessing the 
interior. Some of what Ms T complains of is unlikely to cause offence  such as the seats 
being moved or the radio  station changed.  But I appreciate  that it annoyed Ms T. Based  on 
what Ive seen, esure hasnt disputed the general  state of the car as described by Ms T. I 
accept what Ms T says about this and I dont think it was returned to her in an acceptable 
condition. 
esure says that it didnt  use chemicals to clean  Ms Ts car. Its not possible for me to 
establish at this distance whether it did or not. Its very difficult  for Ms T to show  that, on 
balance, the allergic reaction she had was caused by esures repairers. 
Ref: DRN36484953esure has offered  to reimburse Ms T for the reasonable costs of having her car valeted.  I 
think thats fair. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms T but I dont  direct esure to do any more than its already done or 
offered to do. If Ms T wants  to take up esures  offer to reimburse her for the cost of valeting 
her car, she should send  the receipt  for the reasonable costs to esure.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint as the steps esure Insurance Limited 
has already taken or offered  are fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3648495