K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained he was mis-sold a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr B took out the PPI in April 2005 when he applied for a credit card.  BoS and Mr B agreed 
that the sale took place during a meeting and that Mr B was advised to take the cover. Mr B 
said he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI, he didnt get any information about it and 
he didnt need  it. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mr B had successfully claimed on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and so didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in copies of Mr Bs credit  card agreement, the demands and needs statement from 
the sale and the policy summary.  The credit card agreement shows  a cross in a box to say 
that Mr B wanted PPI (but no cross  in a second  box relating to another  insurance product). 
The cross was pre-printed  but so was all the other  information on the form, including  Mr 
Bs income  and employment details. So I think its most likely that the form was printed out 
after a discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed  part of that discussion. On 
balance, I think its more  likely than not that Mr B was given a choice about whether to take 
the PPI and that he agreed to it. I think he probably just doesnt  remember doing so after all 
this time.
BoS advised Mr B to take out the policy. So it had to make sure that it was suitable  for him. I 
think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mr B wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Mr B said he wouldve been entitled  to less than three months  sick pay from his employer, 
and that he had some savings  equivalent  to less than three months  salary.  Mr B also 
mentioned family help - but circumstances can change, and I dont think such help couldve 
been guaranteed. Taking all this into account  I think Mr B couldve found it difficult  to meet 
the monthly payments on the credit  card once his sick pay ended  or if he lost his job  and 
Ref: DRN31455582Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. So I dont 
think there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending  the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mr B. I can see that the 
demands and needs  statement shows the cost per £100 owed. But as Ive said,  I cant know  
how the adviser explained the policy, or at what point Mr B mightve  been  given the policy 
summary. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not have been as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  
However, given Mr Bs circumstances, I dont  think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed his decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr B back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has made this payment to Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3145558