K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Q, who are represented by Mr A, have made a complaint that Santander  UK Plc 
mis-sold them two mortgages.  
background
Mr and Mrs Q took out an interest only mortgage  with Santander in 2006 (at that time 
Santander were trading  as Abbey National). The mortgage was arranged via a broker who 
was a good family friend and in particular a friend of their son. The loan was for £125 000 
and was to be repaid  after 8 years. Santanders  records say that repayment vehicle would 
be the sale of their home at the end of the term. According  to the records  the purpose was 
predominantly to pay off an existing repayment  mortgage, home improvements and another  
purpose, such as business lending. At that time the estimated value of the property was 
£170 000. In 2007 the broker arranged further borrowing for Mr and Mrs Q which  was 
secured against  Mr and Mrs Qs property via a second charge loan. They were paying  £190  
per month towards the second  charge  loan.   
The following  year Mr and Mrs Q arranged further borrowing with Santander.  They took out a 
further interest only mortgage for £38 0000  which came to an end in 2014. So the term was 
six years. There is no paperwork from the actual  point of sale although there  is limited  
information available from internal  records held by Santander. Ive not been  provided with 
any sample documentation. 
According to Santanders limited records the money  was for debt consolidation and for home 
improvements. The notes indicate that Mr and Mrs Q intended  to make payments from their 
pensions and that the repayment vehicle would be the sale of their home. Their total 
borrowing was around £163 000 at that point. Santanders notes  say that the property was 
valued at £195 000 by the point of the 2008 sale. So the loan to value was 84%. 
At the end of the term Mr and Mrs Q didnt have enough money  to pay off the capital. 
Santander started re-possession proceedings although the proceedings have been  
temporarily placed on hold whilst our service  considers this complaint. Mr and Mrs Q say, in 
summary, they were  sold mortgages that were  unaffordable and unsuitable for them due to 
their circumstances at that time.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She explained that the mortgage 
regulations were quite  different at the time that Mr and Mrs Q entered into the agreements.  
In relation to the first mortgage, she thought that it was the broker who was responsible for 
the sale of the mortgage, not Santander, which meant that Santander had a limited 
responsibility. She concluded  Santander  was entitled to rely on the information provided by 
the broker and the paperwork completed suggested that the repayments  were affordable 
and that the capital would be paid off by the sale of their house. So she didnt  think  
Santander had done anything wrong. 
The investigator explained that we couldnt consider a complaint  about  the second  loan as 
part of the complaint against Santander as it was provided by a different  lender. And this 
type of lending also didnt fall within our services jurisdiction at that time.  
Ref: DRN31050882Finally, the investigator  looked into the last application that Mr and Mrs Q made. She 
explained that she considered the complaint in line with the rules  and regulations  in place at 
the time.  And, based on the information  Mr and Mrs Q provided to Santander, the mortgage 
repayments appeared to be affordable for them and wouldve  reduced  their monthly 
repayments because  this borrowing paid off the second charge taken out in 2007.  The 
investigator also explained that whilst Santander has a responsibility to act positively and 
sympathetically towards a customer in financial difficulty that didnt mean they couldnt 
repossess the house particularly when it meant that the debt continued to increase. So she 
didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr A responded on behalf of Mr and Mrs Q to say that he didnt accept the argument the 
investigator had made about the decision to switch from a repayment mortgage to an 
interest only. He asked an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
Since the complaint has been  referred to me Ive contacted both parties to ask for more 
information. I also asked  for Santanders  comments on their responsibility to refer Mr and 
Mrs Q for advice  where that would be the appropriate course of action. 
Santander explained that the final mortgage was taken out in branch at Croydon. They  
clarified that there was no evidence to confirm  that the method of repayment would be by 
sale of the property. They provided  two letters from a solicitors firm so I wrote to the 
solicitors firm to see whether they had any records from the sale. The solicitors  firm 
contacted me to say that they had represented  Mr and Mrs Q in relation to a possible re-
mortgage away from Santander but if the mortgage  was still in place it wouldnt have gone 
ahead. So they werent able to provide any further information  about  the mortgage  sale in 
2008. Santander also provided information from their internal system  which  said that the 
loan was realistic  and stable. The system notes also say that both applicants were already 
retired and the loan would be repaid by Mr and Mrs Qs pensions. 
In response to my query about  Santanders  responsibilities to refer Mr and Mrs Q for advice 
Santander said the 2008 lending would have put Mr and Mrs Q in a better position because 
it removed the second  charge and they would have had higher repayments  on the 2007 
lending, particularly because it was with a sub-prime  lender. Santander  also pointed that if 
theyd suggested  Mr and Mrs Q obtained  advice they were  likely to have gone back to their 
usual broker who would  have advised them to take out the lending.  
Mr and Mrs Q told me that they did not make the application in branch and hadnt ever been  
to Croydon which is very far away from where  they live. They  told me that the broker  came 
to their house and spoke  to them there.  They explained that the broker  said he had to go to 
see another customer and told them to sign the documents and hed sort out the paperwork. 
They say that they trusted  the broker, particularly  because  he was a close  friend of their son. 
Ref: DRN31050883my first provisional  decision
In September  2018 I issued a provisional  decision upholding Mr and Mrs Qs complaint in 
part. In summary I concluded:
I was satisfied Santander had acted in line with the relevant industry rules in place at 
the time Mr and Mrs Q first applied for a Santander  mortgage in 2006. The sale was 
conducted via a broker, who was responsible for the advice given, and I didnt think  
there was anything within the documentation which  would have  alerted Santander to 
Mr and Mrs Qs broker having inflated their income; 
I thought there was a strong  possibility the broker was involved in the second  
application in 2008. But I was intending to consider this complaint on the basis it was 
a non-advised  sale by Santander; 
I highlighted the Mortgage Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) which placed a 
responsibility on Santander to pay due regard  to Mr and Mrs Qs interests  and treat 
them fairly. Where a business  is selling a customer what they consider to be an 
inappropriate product, MCOB says that the appropriate course  of action would  be for 
them to tell the applicant to seek advice;  
In the circumstances of this case I thought  thats  what Santander should have done 
when Mr and Mrs Q applied for their mortgage in 2008. I thought  Santander ought to 
have had concerns  about the appropriateness of the mortgage  for Mr and Mrs Q 
taking into account their age, financial circumstances, recent borrowing  history and 
the lack of a repayment vehicle. So I was satisfied the borrowing wouldve left 
Mr and Mrs Q in a vulnerable position and Santander ought  reasonably  to have been 
aware of this. So I think it would have been  appropriate for Santander to tell 
Mr and Mrs Q to obtain advice;
I thought if Santander  had told Mr and Mrs Q to get advice it was most likely  theyd  
have sought advice from a different broker or Santander. I said,  on balance, I was 
persuaded that suitable advice would have  led to a recommendation that 
Mr and Mrs Q  refinanced  their existing borrowing on a part interest only and part 
repayment basis, maintaining the same payment that Mr and Mrs Q were  already 
paying which was around £760  per month.
my second  provisional  decision
Both parties  made further representations. In April 2019 I issued my second  provisional 
decision. My provisional findings are set out below. 
the 2006 mortgage 
The further representations about  this mortgage  havent changed  my thoughts about the 
outcome of this aspect  of the complaint. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Q were  entering into a 
contract. But, as I outlined  in my first provisional  decision, at that time Santander had a 
limited responsibility if they werent involved in the sale of the mortgage product. 
Ref: DRN31050884They needed to check that the borrower  was able to pay the money back but they were 
entitled to rely on the information  provided  by the broker and didnt need to carry out any 
further checks to verify it. That means that they could rely on the information provided by 
Mr and Mrs Qs broker and didnt need  to ask for proof of their income. And, for the same  
reasons I outlined in my provisional decision, I remain  satisfied that Santander acted in line 
with the rules in place  at that time and their own internal guidance when agreeing  to offer 
Mr and Mrs Q a mortgage. 
the 2008 mortgage
Santander referred me to page  four of my provisional decision in which  I said I thought  there 
was a strong possibility  the broker was involved in the application. However, theres  very 
limited information about  what  actually happened  during the sales process. So I thought it 
was fair and reasonable to consider this complaint  on the basis it was a non-advised sale by 
Santander. 
Santander said they didnt have a responsibility  to direct Mr and Mrs Q to a different financial 
advisor and that my decision suggests  they should  have proactively suggested to 
Mr and Mrs Q that the advice they had received was not suitable.  Theyve  said they were 
entitled to rely on information provided by the broker.  
The evidence I have  doesnt indicate  that formal advice was given by the broker. Although I 
think he might have  had some involvement  in the application process  his role is unclear. 
Thats why Ive assessed this complaint on the basis it was a non-advised sale by 
Santander. 
To clarify I didnt make a finding that Santander  shouldve proactively suggested the advice 
Mr and Mrs Q received  wasnt  suitable. I concluded they hadnt received advice from 
anybody, and I referred to the industry regulations in place at the time which say Santander 
still had a responsibility to Mr and Mrs Q even if they werent  offering advice. 
The relevant  regulations,  the Mortgage Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (MCOB)  placed  a 
responsibility on Santander to pay due regard  to Mr and Mrs Qs interests  and treat them  
fairly. Where a business is selling a customer what they consider to be an inappropriate 
product, MCOB says that the appropriate  course  of action  would be for them to tell the 
applicant to seek advice.  And I still think thats what Santander should  have done when 
Mr and Mrs Q applied for their mortgage  in 2008 for the same reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I remain satisfied that had Santander said this wasnt an appropriate product then theyd 
have taken advice  from a different source given  the overall circumstances. And I remain  
persuaded that their priority wouldve been  to ensure they had the best possible chance of 
remaining in the home they lived in. So I think suitable advice wouldve been to recommend 
Mr and Mrs Q refinanced  the existing borrowing on a part interest only and part repayment  
basis, maintaining  the same payment  that Mr and Mrs Q were already  paying.   
Santander confirmed,  in response  to my provisional  decision, that had Mr and Mrs Q 
refinanced only the £20,922.00  settlement on a part Repayment and part Interest  Only basis, 
keeping the maximum  total monthly  payment at £760.00 in 2008, the lending  would  have 
been split as:
                                         
Ref: DRN31050885£125,499.00    Payment of £615.99  on Interest Only 
£3,500.00        Payment of £57.82 on Repayment  
£17,422.00      Payment  of £85.51  on Interest Only 
The total Contractual Monthly Instalment  on the above basis would have been £759.32. The 
surplus amount  of £17,078.00  which was released to Mr and Mrs Q has incurred interest  and 
charges applied of £7,815.27. 
The DWP have been covering the cost of the mortgage since 2011. But prior to that 
Mr and Mrs Q were making payments to the mortgage. And theyve also paid interest  on the 
arrears since September 2010. 
I said that I was intending  to direct Santander to put things right by:
Refunding all of the interest applied to the additional borrowing   that is the new 
borrowing on top of the existing interest  only mortgage and second charge taken out in 
2008. The amount of interest paid by the DWP since  2011  should be deducted from the 
total amount and refunded to the DWP  directly. Any surplus should be applied to the 
outstanding balance of Mr and Mrs Qs mortgage with 8% simple interest added;
Mr and Mrs Q also paid interest  on the arrears.  This is referred to as Fees in the 
breakdown provided. As Im satisfied  the mortgage was mis-sold I dont think its fair for 
Mr and Mrs Q to pay these charges, even if the DWP  made payments towards the 
interest. I think  Santander should  refund  all the fees applied to the account  since  the 
inception of the mortgage plus 8 % simple  interest. This can also be applied to the 
outstanding balance;
Not applying  any further interest or charges in respect  of the amounts Ive referred to 
above;
Adjusting the outstanding balance to rework the mortgage on the basis  that 
Mr and Mrs Q would have been  able to maintain the payments  on a part Repayment 
and Part Interest  Only basis. This means  the balance remaining today would be the 
Interest Only borrowing  at £142,921.00  (£125,499.00  + £17,422.00 = £142,921.00). 
responses to my second provisional decision
Santander completed extensive  manual calculations to set out the redress I recommended  in 
my provisional decision. They also made some further comments. In summary they said: 
Mr and Mrs Q appear to be the victims of financial abuse by their son, with the 
benefit of hindsight
The broker appears to have assisted Mr and Mrs Q in obtaining the borrowing  to 
benefit their son
Their lending met the standard policy at that time and theyd have only been able to 
give Mr and Mrs Q advice about Santander  products 
They think that a number of the points Ive made are with the benefit of hindsight  and 
assumptions. They think this case should  be about  financial abuse  and not the failure 
to get advice
Ref: DRN31050886They reiterated that they will initiate legal proceedings with a view to taking 
possession of the property, regardless of whether Mr and Mrs Q accept the final 
decision. 
Mr A replied  on Mr and Mrs Qs behalf.  In summary he said: 
Santander did have  a responsibility under contract law to Mr and Mrs Q in relation to 
the first mortgage
hes disappointed  I remain  of the view that this aspect  of the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld
the agent had information with which to verify their income and told the bank in 
writing he had done so 
He was concerned  that Santander hadnt evidenced the contributions  from the DWP 
or the basis of them.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further comments from both parties  havent  changed my thoughts about the outcome of 
this complaint. Im still intending to uphold it for the reasons set out above, which summarise 
the conclusions  I reach  in my two provisional  decisions. My thoughts  havent  changed  
because: 
Santander says many of my points are based on hindsight and assumptions.  But 
where the evidence  isnt clear I need to decide  whats most likely to have happened. 
And thats what Ive done in this case - where  the evidence  isnt clear Ive set out my 
detailed findings  on the points in dispute  and what I think is most  likely to have 
happened
In relation to the first mortgage I appreciate why Mr A feels Santander ought to have 
looked into their income and outgoings  in more detail. But, as Ive outlined  in my 
provisional decisions Santander had a more  limited responsibility in the 
circumstances and it was entitled  to rely on the information provided  by broker.  So 
Im not upholding this aspect of the complaint
Ive outlined why I think  Santander  had a responsibility to Mr and Mrs Q in relation to 
the second mortgage. So their comments about the responsibilities of the broker  and 
the involvement of Mr and Mrs Qs son havent changed my mind about this point
Ive seen evidence  from Santander  that the DWP made  contributions and the extent 
of those contributions. So Im satisfied the DWP  was making a contribution in the way 
theyve described. 
Ref: DRN31050887putting things right
Santander needs to put things right in the following way: 
Refunding all of the interest applied to the additional borrowing   that is the new 
borrowing on top of the existing interest  only mortgage and second charge taken out in 
2008. The amount of interest paid by the DWP since  2011  should be deducted from the 
total amount and refunded to the DWP  directly. Any surplus should be applied to the 
outstanding balance of Mr and Mrs Qs mortgage with 8% simple interest added;
Mr and Mrs Q also paid interest  on the arrears.  This is referred to as Fees in the 
breakdown provided. As Im satisfied  the mortgage was mis-sold I dont think its fair for 
Mr and Mrs Q to pay these charges, even if the DWP  made payments towards the 
interest. I think  Santander should  refund  all the fees applied to the account  since  the 
inception of the mortgage;
The should not apply  any further interest or charges in respect of the new borrowing and 
second charge taken  out in 2008. However, I understand  that Santander intends to 
pursue legal proceedings as the mortgage is out of contract  which may mean legal  fees 
are added  to outstanding amount  if Santander  is successful in its application for re-
possession. However,  that will be a matter for the court  deciding  the case  and this is not 
a loss which Mr and Mrs Q have yet incurred. So any legal fees,  or associated  charges, 
do not form part of this direction; 
Adjusting the outstanding balance to rework the mortgage on the basis  that 
Mr and Mrs Q would have been  able to maintain the payments  on a part Repayment 
and Part Interest  Only basis as set out in my provisional decision. I understand that this 
means the balance  remaining today would  be the Interest Only borrowing at 
£142,921.00 (£125,499.00  + £17,422.00 = £142,921.00).  
Based on the calculations  in response  to my provisional decision I understand that this is 
likely to result in Santander writing off a proportion of the outstanding debt which  amounted 
to approximately  £28 700 at the point the calculations were made. Santander should update  
the calculation  if Mr and Mrs Q accept  my final decision. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Qs complaint about Santander UK Plc and directing them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to accept or reject my decision before 
20 September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3105088