K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited,  
under which a car was supplied to him, was mis-sold to him.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr D under  a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that he signed in April 2016. The car was returned in February  2018  and was sold 
in August 2018 leaving £34,173.21  owing  from him. He complained  to BMW  Financial 
Services that the agreement had been  mis-sold to him because  hed been told that the re-
sale value of the car would be higher than it was. It said that it had found no evidence  that 
the agreement  was mis-sold to him. Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He was unable to 
say that the finance was misrepresented to Mr D, he could  find no evidence  to show that 
Mr D was promised what the future  value  of the car would be and he was unable  to conclude 
that any definitive promise couldve been  provided.  So he said that he wouldnt be asking 
BMW Financial Services to waive or reduce the amount that Mr D owes.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that:
he was cold-called  by the dealer;
he part-exchanged another  car that he couldnt afford and the dealer took advantage 
of him;
the agreement  isnt what was sold to him verbally; and
finance agreements  are sold on the basis of the value of the car when  the agreement  
ends and he was told that hed have  equity in the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D had a car on which there  was outstanding  finance and he wanted to reduce his monthly 
payment. He was contacted by the dealer and agreed to be supplied with a new car under  a 
hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services in April 2016. He part-exchanged the 
other car and BMW Financial Services  settled  the outstanding finance.
The amount  of credit that was provided  to Mr D was £100,720 and he agreed to make 47 
monthly payments  of £1,496.87 and there  was an optional final payment of about £30,356. 
The agreement was interest free and Mr D didnt pay a deposit. By signing the agreement  he 
confirmed that hed read the information on both pages of the agreement and the terms and 
conditions and that he agreed to be legally bound by the terms of the agreement. The 
agreement set out Mr Ds right to terminate  the agreement and to repay the credit early. 
Mr D says that he told the dealer that he might  want to return  the car before  the agreement  
ended and that he was told that it would have a specified future  value (but he hasnt said 
what that specified value was) so that he would have equity in the car. But no guaranteed  
future value  of the car - or similar  provision  was included in the agreement.  And whilst I 
consider it to be likely  that the future  value  of the car was discussed, I dont consider it to be 
Ref: DRN36024662likely that the dealer  wouldve made any guarantee or promise  about the cars future value.  
And Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show  that the agreement  was mis-
sold to Mr D.
Mr D says that he was struggling to make the payments  due under the agreement because  
of a downturn in his business  and BMW  Financial  Services system notes show that he told 
it in October 2017 that his circumstances had dramatically changed. He was provided with 
early settlement quotes in March and October 2017. It terminated the agreement  in February 
2018 because  of the missed payments and the car was repossessed and it was sold in 
August 2018.  The sale proceeds  of £41,100 were  used to reduce the outstanding balance  
on Mr Ds account to £34,173.21.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that BMW  Financial Services  has 
acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr D. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require it to reduce or waive the outstanding balance  on his 
account  or to take any other action in response  to his complaint. BMW Financial Services  
says that it has instructed  solicitors about  the debt and that enforcement  action was started 
last month. I consider  it to be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services  to seek  
repayment from Mr D of the outstanding amount of his account (to the extent that its legally 
entitled to do so).
But Mr D says that hes experiencing financial difficulties. BMW  Financial Services  is 
required to respond  to any such financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I suggest 
that Mr D contacts it to try to agree  an affordable repayment plan for the amount that he 
owes and which takes account of his financial difficulties.
Mr D says that he continues to receive  unwanted  marketing information.  I suggest that he 
contacts the sender of that information to tell it that he no longer wants  to receive such  
information.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3602466