K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about how CIS General Insurance Limited dealt with and settled a claim he 
made under his home  insurance following the collapse of his ceiling.
background
Mr S held a home insurance policy with CIS General Insurance Limited  (CIS). On 8 July 
2018 the lath and plaster  from Mr S ceiling. This caused damage to his living room. 
Mr S was unsure why his ceiling had collapsed   there was no sign of an escape of water  
from the room above. And he thought recent  heat and dry weather might have caused his 
ceiling to fall in. So, he contacted CIS in order  to make a claim under his home insurance.
CIS appointed a building surveyor  B to determine the cause of the ceiling collapse and 
assess the damage to Mr S living room. B attended  Mr S property on 11 July 2018 and, 
after it inspected his ceiling, it informed him that he had a valid claim for accidental  damage.  
On 12 July 2018 Bs decision was reviewed and overturned. Mr S was told the attending 
surveyor had made  an error  in attributing the cause of the ceiling collapse to accidental 
damage. CIS told him his ceiling had, instead, collapsed due to defective  materials. It 
explained that, because the ceiling collapse hadnt been caused by an external event that 
was unexpected  and not deliberate as his policy required, his claim was being repudiated. 
Mr S wasnt  happy about how CIS was intending  to resolve his claim. And he thought  it had 
acted unfairly in overturning Bs initial opinion on the cause of damage. So, he complained  
about how CIS had assessed his claim.
In CIS final response  to Mr S complaint, it maintained its view that the cause of the ceiling 
collapse wasnt covered  by his policy. It said Bs decision about his claim had been incorrect.  
But this was only discovered following a review of the surveyors  report. CIS recognised that 
repudiating Mr S claim after hed been  told it would be covered would have caused  him 
distress and inconvenience. So, it compensated him by sending him a cheque for £100.
Mr S funded the reinstatement works himself and appointed a company called P to repair  
his ceiling. It told him it thought exceptionally  hot weather had caused the ceiling to collapse.  
And it provided Mr P with a report, which confirmed that. Mr S sent this report  to CIS. But it 
still wouldnt  agree  to meet his claim. So, he referred  his complaint to us. 
An investigator at our service assessed the evidence provided by Mr S and CIS. But they 
didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They were persuaded that the cause of Mr S 
ceiling collapse was due to a failure  of the lath and plaster. So, they didnt think CIS had 
acted unfairly in repudiating this claim. And they thought the £100  compensation it had 
already paid was a reasonable  amount  to cover the trouble and upset Mr S would have been 
caused by the incorrect  claim advice hed been given at the outset of his claim. But Mr S 
rejected our investigators  view of his complaint and requested an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the investigator 
has reached a fair outcome here. So, Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN32905832Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint in rather less detail than theyve 
been presented.  I dont  intend any discourtesy by this. Its a reflection of the informal service  
we provide, and if I havent mentioned something, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is 
consistent with what our enabling  legislation  requires  of me. It allows me to focus on the 
issues on which I consider a fair outcome  will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters  which, 
although presented as material,  are, in my opinion peripheral. 
Im sorry  to hear about  what  happened to Mr S. I realise this has had a big impact  on him. 
And I can appreciate  how distressing it must have been for CIS to repudiate his claim.  But 
while I emphasise with Mr S, my role is to assess whether I think CIS made  a mistake, or 
treated him unfairly, such that it needs  to now put things right.  
 
Theres no dispute that damage  occurred to Mr S property as a result of his ceiling 
collapsing. However,  theres a dispute  between Mr S, CIS and its appointed agents about 
the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mr S would like CIS to reimburse him for the costs hes incurred in reinstating  his property to 
its pre-loss state. And he feels his claim should  be met under the accidental  damage  section 
of his policy. His policy with CIS provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that 
might happen. These are specific  one-off events and include  accidental damage, for 
example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mr S would  have  to show  that the damage hes 
claiming for was caused by one of the perils  listed  in his policy.
CIS considered whether  or not the cause of the ceiling collapse was due to accidental  
damage. I think that this was reasonable because Bs initial opinion was that the damage 
had been caused in this way.
The terms of Mr S policy with CIS define accidental damage as physical damage that is 
caused suddenly  by an external event and that is unexpected and not deliberate. So, I can 
only direct  CIS to settle a claim under the accidental  damage clause if the damage has been  
caused in this way.
As Ive already  explained, when B attended  Mr S property on 11 July 2018,  it attributed  the 
cause of the ceiling collapse to accidental  damage. B drafted a report  confirming this was its 
opinion. But this is disputed by CIS as it believes the ceiling collapsed  due to detective 
materials.
Mr S has raised concerns about  the basis on which CIS overturned Bs decision.  He said 
CIS didnt  visit his property. And he feels that, because it hasnt inspected the ceiling, its 
opinion of the cause of damage is less reliable  than Bs. I understand the point Mr S is 
making here but Im not persuaded  by his argument.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen the detailed report B compiled when attending Mr S property, which includes many 
photographs showing  the damage sustained. Im therefore satisfied that the content  of Bs 
report would  have enabled CIS to assess Mr S claim without the need to visit his property.  
Ive carefully considered  the letter from Mr S builder  and I can see they believe the ceiling 
collapsed due to exceptionally hot weather.  But ceilings shouldnt fail because of hot 
weather. A correctly  designed  and constructed ceiling  should withstand this type of weather. 
Ref: DRN32905833And I think its more likely, based on the evidence Ive seen, that the ceiling collapsed  due to 
defective materials  as CIS thinks.  
Under the terms of Mr S policy, where damage occurs as a result of faulty  workmanship, 
defective design or the use of defective  materials CIS is entitled to repudiate  a claim. Mr S 
might think  this is unfair but this exclusion clause is in common  with most home insurance 
policies. This is because insurance  is intended  to cover the unforeseen, and damage caused 
by defective materials  isnt unforeseen.
In the overall circumstances,  Im satisfied CIS acted fairly in attributing the cause of the 
ceiling collapse to defective materials. And I therefore think it applied the terms of his policy 
reasonably in declining this claim.
I can see Mr S told our investigator his neighbours house  was completely rebuilt, which  has 
caused movement  of his property. Hes offered this as an alternative explanation  for the 
cause of the ceiling collapse. But Mr S hasnt provided our service with a structural  report,  or 
any other evidence, confirming how his property has been affected by any of the work 
undertaken at his neighbours  house. I therefore havent seen enough to persuade me that 
neighbouring building work is responsible  for the collapse  of Mr S ceiling.
Ill turn now to whether CIS acted fairly  in how it dealt  with Mr S concerns about the advice B 
provided about his claim. 
Based on the available evidence, I can see that Mr S was informed of the correct claim 
decision within 24 hours of receiving Bs advice that his claim would be covered under his 
policy. As I set out in the background to this complaint, this was brought about following a 
review of the attending surveyors opinion on the cause of the ceiling collapse.  
I can understand why Mr S is frustrated that Bs decision about  his claim was reviewed.  But, 
as our investigator has already explained,  its not unusual for an insurer  to review decisions 
made by the surveyors it appoints. And CIS has confirmed that its process is for surveyor  
reports to be reviewed  once completed  and received. I think  that process  happened  without  
delay in this case.
As Im satisfied the change in decision was identified and communicated  to Mr S promptly,  
Im persuaded the £100 compensation CIS paid him is a fair amount thats  proportionate  to 
the inconvenience and worry that he would have been caused  here.  Its in line with our 
approach in similar scenarios and its what  I would have told CIS to pay. I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that a higher award is warranted. So, I wont be asking CIS to 
increase the compensation it paid to resolve this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about  the issues  raised  in this complaint. Hes incurred 
considerable expense in repairing his ceiling and restoring his property to its pre-loss  state. 
And I recognise that, in addition to this all impacting on him financially, its caused him 
distress and inconvenience. But, overall, Im satisfied CIS handled  Mr S claim fairly. 
It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require it to pay his claim.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr S dispute with CIS informally,  can 
do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr S any further  with this complaint.
Ref: DRN32905834my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2021.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3290583