K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that following an account switch  to another bank he didnt receive 
Santander UK Plcs letters  advising  he had an outstanding balance. As a result,  Mr Ms 
credit file has been affected.  Mr M also complains about how Santanders handled a Subject 
Access Request (SAR). 
background
In April 2018 Mr M arranged to move his account away  from Santander and the switch 
completed at the beginning  of May 2018. But there  was an outstanding balance  on Mr Ms 
account of £194.75. 
Santander says it wrote to Mr M on six occasions asking him to repay the funds owed. Mr M 
says the first letter he received was in August 2018 and he then called Santander to discuss 
the outstanding balance.  
Mr M requested a SAR in August  2018  but didnt receive the information he wanted.  Mr M 
also didnt receive  a call back from Santander and a repayment plan was incorrectly offered 
to him. 
Mr M complained and Santander  agreed to pay him £75 in relation to the service  hed 
received. But it didnt agree itd made a mistake when recording information  on Mr Ms credit 
file so it didnt  offer to make any changes. Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and an 
investigator looked at whatd  happened. He thought  Santander had written to Mr M about his 
account balance  several times and that the information on his credit file was accurate so 
didnt ask it to make  any changes. 
Mr M remains unhappy and has said hes investigating problems with his post.  Mr M has asked 
to appeal the investigators view so his complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining  that the rules about  how businesses handle  information 
(including responding to a SAR) are set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), the 
regulator. I know Mr M has made  a number  of complaints about how Santanders handled  
his SAR request  but if he remains concerned hell need to refer those issues  to the ICO. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt able to look at complaints of that nature. 
What we can look at is whether  Santander has treated Mr M fairly when recording arrears 
with the credit reference agencies when his overdraft wasnt  repaid. To decide, Ive looked at 
the evidence available, including the letters  and information Santander sent Mr M, as well as 
his comments and all the information hes provided  when  bringing his complaint. Having 
done so, Ive reached the same decision as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN39450662I know this points already  been made  by Santander and the investigator but its important  to 
the complaint.  After  Mr M switched his account to another bank Santander wrote to him 
several times asking  him to repay his overdraft. I appreciate Mr M says his post isnt reliable 
but Im looking at Santanders  actions. And Im satisfied it did send  Mr M the correctly 
addressed letters Ive seen. Mr Ms said he thinks letters of this nature should be sent via a 
recorded delivery service.  But theres  nothing in the account terms that says Santander will 
write to its customers in that way when the accounts overdrawn and the industry rules dont 
require that step.  
Mr Ms recently told us hes investigating  problems  receiving post. While that maybe  the 
case, it doesnt affect the outcome here. My role is to look at whether Santander  
communicated with Mr M in a fair and reasonable way. Mr M didnt tell Santander he was 
having difficulty receiving  post or ask to communicate in a different way to make sure he was 
receiving important information, so Ive not found its made  a mistake by writing to him. 
Santander recently responded to Mr Ms concerns about the problems hes had receiving his 
post but didnt agree  to remove  or amend the information its reported to the credit reference  
agencies. As Ive said above,  Im only able to look at Santanders actions when assessing 
this complaint and I havent found any evidence of errors when sending  Mr M important 
information about his overdraft. As I havent found  Santander made a mistake  I dont have  
grounds to tell it to change the information  its reporting. 
Ive looked at the account balance and can see its made up of transactions completed  on 
Mr Ms behalf by Santander. As Mr M had arranged to transfer his banking  away  from 
Santander its reasonable that it went on to ask him to clear the outstanding balance (that 
exceeded his arranged overdraft limit) when it wrote to him.  
I know Mr Ms recently asked about when  Santander  can ask him to repay his overdraft. The 
current account terms Santander has on its website say it can ask for an overdraft to be 
repaid in full on demand. That means the overdraft  doesnt have a specific term but is 
repayable when Santander  says so. 
Mr Ms recently raised  the legal principal of frustration  of contract with Santander and its 
responded explaining  why it doesnt  agree it should be taken into consideration in this case. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is an informal dispute  resolution service. So whilst we 
have regard for the law, we decide  cases based  on whats fair and reasonable. And in this 
case, Im satisfied Santanders acted fairly  and reasonably by writing  to Mr M about  the 
funds he owed. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but Ive not found  any evidence of a mistake by Santander in 
the way it corresponded  with him. Santanders  sent Mr M a £75 cheque for the service  he 
received when raising his concerns. If the cheque wasnt deposited or is no longer available  
Mr M can contact  Santander directly for a replacement. Ive looked  at what happened  and 
Im satisfied thats fair in all the circumstances. As a result, Im not telling Santander to take 
any further action  to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN39450663my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3945066