K820x#14complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about  the charges on their account with Barclays  Bank UK PLC. 
background
Mrs H and Mr H had banked with Barclays for a number of years. Their financial situation 
worsened in 2012.  And they felt Barclays fees and charges trapped  them in a cycle of 
hardship. When they asked for help the bank just suggested they re-mortgage. So theyd like 
a full refund  of all the charges on their overdraft for the past 6 years.
Barclays said it was sorry to hear of Mrs H and Mr Hs difficulties. But the overdraft fees had 
been applied  correctly. And itd provided  several refunds in the past as a gesture of goodwill. 
Barclays suggested a number of ways the bank could support Mrs H and Mr H in avoiding  
fees in the future. But the bank didnt feel it was responsible for their financial hardship. 
Mrs H and Mr H werent  satisfied with Barclays response. So they contacted our service  and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mrs H and Mr H were using the 
overdraft on a regular  basis. But they were managing  the account within the agreed limits. 
And even  though they were using  the emergency reserve  it was re-credited within the same  
month. So she didnt  think Barclays shouldve got in touch with Mrs H and Mr H to offer 
support. And she didnt  think  Barclays had done  anything wrong.  Mrs H and Mr H didnt 
agree. They  said theyd contacted Barclays for help on numerous occasions. So theyve 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. 
Mrs H and Mr H are concerned about  the financial difficulties they find themselves in. They  
feel Barclays contributed  to the situation because of the high fees theyve had to pay on their 
overdraft facility. So Ive looked very carefully  at everything that Mrs H and Mr H and 
Barclays have said.
I can see Mrs H and Mr H were given an overdraft of £1350  in January 2011. Barclays also 
provided a £500  personal reserve on the account which became known as the emergency 
borrowing limit. This was intended for use during difficult  circumstances.  And it carried higher 
charges than the normal overdraft facility.
The following  year Mr H was made redundant. And it put pressure on Mrs H and Mr Hs 
finances. So Ive looked at their statements to see how the account  was being used. And 
what impact the banks charges had.
Mrs H and Mr H used the overdraft facility on a regular basis. They also used the emergency 
borrowing on a number  of occasions.  And this led to Barclays  applying both interest and 
charges to the account. Mrs H and Mr H feel Barclays shouldve noticed they were 
struggling. The use of the overdraft and emergency  borrowing  confirmed that. And I do 
understand what they are saying. But its not unusual for customers to use their overdraft 
facility on a regular  basis. And I wouldve only expected the bank to contact  them if they had 
exceeded their agreed limit and were unable to reduce the outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN30520562Mrs H and Mr H say they were also using the emergency borrowing facility. So it shouldve 
alerted Barclays to their financial  difficulty. But they were receiving payments each month  
which returned the account into credit. So I dont think theres  enough evidence  to suggest 
Barclays shouldve noticed something  was wrong.  I do recognise Mrs H and Mr H were  
finding it difficult. But they did appear to be managing their finances within the agreed  limits.
Mrs H and Mr H continued to use the account for normal expenditure. And having looked  at 
the statements  I cant really say the bank charges or fees were responsible for the overall 
difficulties they found themselves in. 
I would expect Barclays to respond positively and sympathetically when it became aware of 
their financial  situation. Mrs H and Mr H say they tried to contact  the bank on a number of 
occasions. And there may have  been some communication problems when they did. But 
theres nothing on the banks  system to suggest it was aware of their difficulties until more  
recently. And there  were a number  of different ways Mrs H and Mr H mightve  contacted 
Barclays to make it clear they needed help.
I can see Barclays offered text services and other  facilities to help Mrs H and Mr H monitor  
their account  balance and expenditure. And it also suggested a number of organisations who 
might be able to help with financial  planning. I appreciate they feel Barclays was unhelpful 
when it suggested  consolidating  their debts onto their mortgage. But I cant  say Barclays  
responded inappropriately in the circumstances.
I know Mrs H and Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. And I do sympathise with the 
situation they find themselves in. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  Barclays applied the 
charges and fees unfairly or incorrectly. And I cant really say the charges are responsible for 
the financial difficulties  Mrs H and Mr H have  experienced.  So I wont be asking the bank to 
do anything more.
Ref: DRN30520563my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3052056