K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a further  advance on their mortgage in 1997. They 
paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy covered Mr and Mrs D.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since this policy was sold, theres some uncertainty  about how 
the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs D have  said that they cant remember how the PPI was sold.  
Lloyds also arent  sure.  
In the absence of other evidence, I've considered that its more likely than not that this sale 
took place in a meeting where Lloyds made  a recommendation to take PPI. This also places 
more responsibility  on Lloyds as it means that they had to take reasonable steps  to check 
that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs D, as well as give them good enough information about 
the PPI.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint because:
Unfortunately there arent any notes available of the meeting, and understandably    
Mr and Mrs D might not recall it clearly after so long.  There  are also no documents  
available to me from the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising considering the 
sale took place  over 20 years ago. 
So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with Mr and Mrs D. In order for 
me to uphold this Id have to think that Mr and Mrs Ds account  was more likely  than 
that of Lloyds. But as these events  happened so long ago and as theres no 
documentary evidence  to support either partys position, I have  to conclude that      
Mr and Mrs Ds account is only as likely not more likely. 
Ive also kept in mind  that it seems that the initial mortgage was taken out in 1982 but 
PPI wasnt taken out until 1997  with further  borrowing.  So I cant  fairly  say that         
Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have reasonably been aware  that PPI was separate to and 
not a condition of their mortgage or any further borrowing. 
Ive considered that Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and it seems to 
have been right for them  based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
For example, although Mr and Mrs D have told us about their existing means, such  
as a sick pay entitlement, this policy could have paid out in addition  to and for longer 
than their existing means likely would have lasted. This also would have allowed 
Ref: DRN31745012them the option of not needing to use their existing means for making their mortgage  
repayments and instead keep them for future use, or to help pay for other  living 
expenses they likely  would have had. 
As I dont know what information  Mr and Mrs D were presented  with at the time of 
sale, Ive considered that Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than 
it did. But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs D would  still have bought it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But         
Mr and Mrs D dont appear  to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments; including what  theyve said about  life 
cover they had meaning they didnt need PPI. But I dont think  that life insurance  is directly 
comparable to PPI as it would only pay out in the unfortunate event of Mr or Mrs Ds death. 
But PPI could benefit them when they were still alive if they were unwell and unable to work 
or made unemployed.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3174501