K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs L took out to cover the payments on a store  card in 
2000. Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer,  should  take responsibility  for the complaint.  
So, for clarity, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why below.
FICL says the PPI was sold around five years after Mrs Ls store card was opened. So 
Mrs Ls store card had already been running  for around five years when the PPI was sold,  
and I dont think Mrs L can reasonably have thought she had to have the PPI in order to get 
the card.
Both Mrs L and FICL say the PPI was sold over the phone. And FICL  has sent us copies of 
the call scripts it says wouldve been used  in similar sales calls.  These  scripts  show that it 
wouldve been made clear  that the PPI was optional. So I think its likely it would also have  
been made clear  that the PPI was optional in Mrs Ls call with FICL.
So I think FICL made it clear that Mrs L had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs L chose to 
take it, knowing she didnt  have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs L any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs L. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than Mrs L has told us she wouldve  
been entitled to full sick pay. And Mrs L has told us she didnt  have any other means  she 
couldve used to make  her repayments if she wasnt earning. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful to her. And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs L 
off taking it out.
Ref: DRN36556902my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3655690