K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC blocked their accounts without notice or 
explanation.
background 
Mr and Mrs H held a current account and two savings accounts  with Barclays.  
Barclays applied a block to Mr and Mrs Hs accounts  on 2 April 2019. The bank also blocked 
a business account held by Mr and Mrs Hs limited  company, which  is the subject of a 
separate complaint.
When Mrs H discovered she couldnt access her accounts on 2 April,  she called Barclays 
and was told that this was because the bank was conducting an internal review of the 
account, which could  take up to ten working  days  to complete. A complaint was logged,  but 
Barclays didnt uphold  it on the basis that its usual  process was being  followed correctly. 
So Mr and Mrs H referred the matter to us, while  still unable to access their accounts.  They  
were also unhappy  with the way Barclays had spoken to them about the matter, and in 
particular when trying  to access funds for living expenses while the blocks  remained in 
place.
Barclays subsequently removed the block on the accounts on 17 April 2019.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint.  He thought that Barclays had acted 
reasonably in blocking and reviewing the accounts in light of the information it had received, 
in line with its standard procedure. And having listened to recordings of Mrs Hs calls with 
Barclays, he didnt think the bank had handled  any of them  inappropriately. But he found that 
the bank had slightly exceeded its timescale  of ten working days  to complete the review, 
causing Mr and Mrs H unnecessary inconvenience.  So he recommended that Barclays  pay 
them £150  for this. 
Barclays accepted  our investigators  view, but Mr and Mrs H didnt. Mrs H didnt think that 
Barclays actions were  justified by the information it had received and thought there  were  
other calls shed had with Barclays that our investigator hadnt been provided  with. 
So with no resolution to the complaint, it was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate that having their accounts  blocked without warning will have caused  Mr and 
Mrs H some considerable distress and inconvenience. But for me to uphold this aspect  of 
the complaint,  Id need to find that Barclays decision to do so was wrong or unreasonable.  
And in the circumstances here, I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN38283652Under the terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Hs accounts,  Barclays  was entitled  to 
suspend its services (in certain  circumstances).  Banks are required to have such measures 
in place to fulfil a number  of legal and regulatory  obligations. Based  on the information that 
Barclays received from another bank about activity on one of Mr and Mrs Hs accounts,  I 
think it was reasonable  for the bank  to block the accounts while  it reviewed things in more  
detail and in order  to comply with those  obligations.  
I know this doesnt  feel fair to Mr and Mrs H, in light of the impact  the account  blocks had on 
them and as they consider the investigation to have been prompted by a malicious  
allegation. And I can sympathise with them on that, especially in light of the fact that 
ultimately no further action was deemed  necessary after Barclays completed its review. But 
the bank was obliged to treat the information  it received  seriously, and it had to look into 
things before it could  decide what further  action (if any) was necessary in the circumstances. 
So I dont  think Barclays did anything wrong in reviewing the accounts and restricting  Mr and 
Mrs Hs access  while it did so.
Ive also considered the service that Mr and Mrs H received while  their accounts  were 
blocked. On the day the blocks were applied, Barclays  explained to Mrs H that she and Mr H 
would be able to withdraw money from wages or government  benefits by going into branch 
with some proof of identity. And I can see that they did so on a few occasions. That was a 
reasonable step, which helped minimise  the impact of the block  on Mr and Mrs H during the 
two-week review. More broadly, having listened to the calls Mrs H had with the bank, I think 
it gave her as much  information as it reasonably could about what  was happening  and what 
the next steps were.
Barclays also informed Mrs H that the review would be complete within  ten working days. 
And thats its usual  timeframe. But in the event, it exceeded that  and Mr and Mrs Hs 
access to the accounts was only restored  on the 12th working day. I dont think  the amount of 
time taken  is particularly unreasonable. But the bank  did give Mrs H repeated assurances 
about the ten working day timeframe, which it was then unable  to comply with. I can also see 
that Mr and Mrs Hs first attempt to withdraw  funds in branch was unsuccessful, for which 
there doesnt seem to be good reason. Barclays has already agreed to pay Mr and Mrs H 
compensation of £150 for any additional upset or inconvenience this caused, which I think is 
fair in the circumstances.
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs H have told us, including  Mrs Hs unhappiness  
with how she was spoken to while the review was ongoing. But having listened to recordings 
of ten telephone conversations between Mrs H and Barclays over the relevant period,  Ive 
not found that any of the advisers spoke to her inappropriately. And while Mrs H said there 
must be other calls that weve not been provided with, she didnt respond to our request for 
details about these calls so that we could investigate this further. So these  points dont lead 
me to a different conclusion.
Ref: DRN38283653my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs H 
compensation of £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2021.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3828365