K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that a payment she received into her bank account she held with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC was recalled. 
Background
In September  2016 Mrs F says she had an agreement with a freight company (Company A) 
to unload a container. Mrs F and Company A agreed a cost of £500  and that it would be paid 
into Mrs Fs account with Barclays. Mrs F wasnt planning to complete the work herself, so 
she employed a third party. Following the payment going into Mrs Fs account, Company A 
raised a recall through their bank, as it said the work  wasnt completed.  Barclays agreed  to 
return the funds,  but as Mrs F had withdrawn some  of the money, only £355.70 could be 
sent. 
Mrs F has now complained to Barclays, as she said the work was completed and the money 
should not have been recalled. Barclays  looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said 
they returned the money correctly, following the request for the recall. 
As Mrs F remained  unhappy, the complaint  was brought to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
Barclays received a valid reason for the recall, and based on that, the bank were fair when 
they agreed to return the funds. 
As Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed  to me to issue  
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the information Ive seen from 
both parties, I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs F has been  able to supply us information to show that the work  was arranged. From 
what Ive seen, this was to unload a container at a property. Its clear  Mrs F wasnt  planning 
to complete the work herself, as the messages  were sent to a third party when arranging the 
work - although Mrs Fs bank details were used  to receive the payment. From what  Ive been 
able to establish, Mrs F arranged the work  and then outsourced the work,  with the payment 
being made to her. 
The statements  Ive received show the amount of £500 credit the account, and then a debit 
of £355.70.
When Barclays received  the request for the recall,  it is listed as goods not received, in other  
words the work wasnt completed. Having looked  through the recall process that was 
followed, I do think Barclays could  have asked for more information to make certain that the 
recall reason  was valid. But I also have to look as what I think the likely outcome would have 
been had they done that. 
At my request, our investigator asked Mrs F for evidence  that the work was completed. 
Mrs F hasnt  been unable to supply us with this information. Mrs F has sent us information to 
show that the work was arranged, but thats  not whats in dispute here. Im satisfied had 
Ref: DRN32879822Barclays asked the same question, its unlikely Mrs F would have supplied  anything different 
to what she sent us -and its unlikely this would have been  enough  for Barclays to dispute  
the recall request. So Im satisfied the outcome would have remained the same.  
Based on the above, I dont find Barclays have acted unfairly when they agreed to the recall 
request.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3287982