K821x#15complaint
Mrs R and Mrs S as trustees of a statutory trust complain, with the help of their independent 
financial adviser (IFA), that Sesame  Limited gave them  unsuitable investment advice. In 
particular that the recommended investment wasnt suitable for the needs of the trust and 
beneficiaries because it wasnt income  producing  meaning the withdrawals made  by the 
trustees shouldnt have been  made.
background
I have issued two provisional decisions in this complaint. The provisional decisions form part 
of my final decision. I attach the second provisional decision which summarises the findings 
made in my first decision. In short my overall  findings were as follows:
Investment bonds arent suitable  for interest in possession trust where the life tenant 
needs an income.
Redress should be calculated on the basis that Mrs R and Mrs S wouldve invested in 
something different,  from which  withdrawals  wouldve been made.
Sesame should  calculate redress based on the difference in notional  value allowing 
for withdrawals of natural income calculated to 4 January  2014.
Sesame should  calculate the gain, if any, on the amount it calculates is due, up to the 
date of settlement  and pay that to Mrs R and Mrs S.
Sesame should  calculate what tax wouldve been paid if the bond  had been  cashed 
in on 4 January  2014 and pay that to Mrs R and Mrs S.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my second  provisional decision. The IFA 
disagreed with one part of my redress. He said that Mrs R and Mrs S couldnt cash  in the 
bond and move the money to a more suitable  investment  until they were certain the tax 
charge arising  from encashment would be paid.
Mrs S also responded  and said that she was hurt that I felt she had done  nothing when 
made aware  the money  was invested  in the wrong  type of investment. She said they didnt 
change advisers, it was just that the first business  was taken over by the second business.  
She contacted the IFA in 2014  when she didnt get the visit she expected from her current 
advisers to explain  what  had happened. And she and Mrs R had been trying to resolve  the 
situation since then.
Sesame also responded and provided  a redress calculation within  which it made the 
following comments:
Its original  calculation  was based on the fact the capital had been placed  in a bond  
from which income and capital had been withdrawn and so to account for the income 
taken by the Life Tenant and any reduction of capital to the remaindermans interest 
it accounted for inflation on the capital value to be passed to the remainderman  
because the money had been placed  in a bond.  But the provisional decision makes 
findings it has to take into account  which change the reason for its initial  assessment 
significantly.
Firstly the provisional decision makes clear the complaint is from the trustees so it 
cannot account for any excess income  that may have been taken.
Secondly it is accepted the funds shouldnt have been placed in an investment bond  
and it has to be assumed  the money wouldve been placed in a product where the 
Life Tenant got an income with the capital value kept secure for the remainderman.
Ref: DRN36734212Because of the above the rationale behind  the loss assessment has changed so a 
comparison has to be made between the actual  value of the bond and the principal 
capital left to the remainderman.
The trustees would be responsible  for the tax payable on surrender  but Mrs R is both 
a trustee and the Life Tenant of the trust and has benefitted from a notably higher 
income than she wouldve had if the correct  advice had been. So it will offset  the 
additional income she has received against any tax liability  that wouldve arisen on 
surrender.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Mrs S has said and I am sorry if what I have said upset her in any way. 
But I have to make my decision based on what  I consider to be fair to both parties  taking 
account of all the relevant information.
I note the IFA has said he wouldnt have recommended  moving  out of the bond unless it was 
certain that the tax consequences of doing  so would  be covered. I acknowledge what  he has 
said but I dont  think it is reasonable  for Sesame  to be responsible  for Mrs S and Mrs R 
remaining in the bond to date.
In the complaint made by Mrs S and Mrs R in October 2017 - to the firm that took over 
responsibility from Sesame for advising them in 2012 - they stated they had seen  an adviser 
at the end of 2013 who said he was going to review things and get back  to them  in the New 
Year. He didnt do so and they said they assumed that everything was okay until they met 
with the IFA in late 2015.
But the letter  from the new advising firm dated 4 December 2013  made  it clear  the bond  
wasnt suitable. And I still think it is reasonable to expect them to have acted on that 
information. I acknowledge the adviser  may not have contacted them after December 2013 
as he said he would.  But given  the contents of the letter and the fact that they were  
expecting him to contact  them Im not persuaded it was reasonable for them to continue  for 
nearly two more years on the basis that everything  was okay. 
The complaint to Sesame wasnt made until 17 May 2016  around two and a half years  
after Mrs R and Mrs S were told the bond  wasnt suitable. I think  they needed to act much  
sooner to do something about the bond.
I acknowledge what the IFA has said about  the tax payable reducing the amount that could 
then be paid into whatever suitable replacement investment was chosen. But if Mrs R and 
Mrs S had acted on the letter of December 2013 the gains  and the tax payable on those 
gains - wouldve  been significantly less. It seems to me the impact of simply proceeding as if 
everything was okay has made  the position  significantly  worse  than it wouldve been if the 
bond had been surrendered in 2014.  Im not persuaded that Sesame should be responsible  
for that.
Sesame has provided some calculations in response to my provisional decision but using its 
own criteria for how redress should be calculated. But Im not persuaded the basis  of the 
redress set out in second provisional decision should be changed.
Ref: DRN36734213I said it should calculate the notional  value of the bond in the same way it had already done. 
But it has now said that as the complaint is by the trustees and not the life tenant or 
remainderman it cant take account of any excess income that may have been taken. And as 
the money wouldve been invested in a different product it can only assume the Life Tenant 
wouldve been provided with an income and the capital value wouldve been kept secure  for 
the remainderman.
I think it is worth noting that my first provisional  decision   which Sesame agreed  with - 
made it clear  that Mrs S and Mrs R were trustees so it isnt clear why Sesame  has now 
raised this. But aside from this I dont agree  that the basis of redress should be changed.
It isnt possible to know now what Mrs S and Mrs R wouldve invested in instead  of the bond. 
But they may well have invested for income  and capital growth so that the returns wouldnt  
have all been income that Mrs R couldve received. In the circumstances  I still think 
Sesames original basis for calculating redress using a notional value for the money invested 
is a reasonable  way to compensate the trust given the uncertainties over how Mrs S and Mrs 
R would  otherwise have invested.
I also dont think it is reasonable to take account of the money already received by Mrs R in 
calculating redress. She has received this money  as a beneficiary and was unaware this was 
something she wasnt entitled to. I dont think  any benefit she has received should be taken 
into account when  calculating whether the trust has suffered a loss. Im not persuaded to 
change my finding on this. So I think Sesame should  pay the tax it calculates wouldve  been  
payable if the bond had been surrendered on 4 January 2014 without offsetting  the money 
Mrs R received as it has done in its recent  calculation.
What Sesame should  do to put things right 
Sesame should  calculate the notional value of the Investment Bond in the same way as it 
has already done  but using 4 January 2014 instead  of 1 August 2012  and compare this with 
the actual value of the Investment Bond  at 4 January 2014. It should pay the difference in 
value to Mrs R and Mrs S.
Sesame should  calculate what gain, if any, wouldve been made by the trust on the amount it 
calculates is due on the basis this amount was held within the Investment Bond to the date 
of settlement  and pay this. 
Sesame should  pay tax payable by the trust as a result of having to encash the investment 
but limited to the amount  of tax that would have been payable if the Investment Bond had 
been encashed on 4 January 2014.
Sesame offered £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused because of the advice that 
5% could be withdrawn and I dont award anything above this as a result of finding that 
Sesames original advice  was also wrong.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above and in my provisional  decisions. 
Sesame Limited has to pay the redress it calculates  is due as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mrs R 
as trustees to accept  or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Ref: DRN36734214Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36734215COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs R and Mrs S as trustees of a statutory trust complain, with the help of their independent  financial 
adviser (IFA),  that Sesame  Limited gave them unsuitable investment advice. In particular that the 
recommended investment  wasnt suitable for the needs of the trust and beneficiaries because  it 
wasnt income producing meaning the withdrawals  made by the trustee  should have been made.
background
Mrs Rs husband died in 2006 without having made a Will so his estate was dealt with under  the rules 
of intestacy that applied at the time. This meant that Mrs R received an amount of £125,000 together 
with a life interest  in half the residue  amounting to £106,000  - with the other half going to the two 
children in equal amounts as capital beneficiaries.
Mrs Rs life interest was held within  a statutory trust and she and Mrs S were  the trustees. Mrs R as 
life tenant was entitled  to the income  from the trust. They invested in an Investment Bond on the 
advice they received  from Sesame.  Mrs R took regular withdrawals  from the Bond.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy of which is attached, and made the following  
findings:
Investment  Bonds are life insurance  products and my understanding is that as such  they are 
not income producing so arent suitable for an interest in possession trust where the life 
tenant requires an income.
Redress should be calculated on the basis that Mrs R and Mrs S wouldve invested in 
something different  from which withdrawals would  still have been  made.
Sesame should pay redress based on the difference in notional value - which  allowed for 
withdrawals of natural income  - it had calculated as of 1 August  2012 and the actual value of 
the Bond at that date which it had calculated as £11,740.
Sesame should calculate what gain, if any, the Bond wouldve  made  on £11,740 if at had 
remained in the Bond  up to the date of settlement  and pay that to the trustees.
Sesame should calculate what tax wouldve been payable if the Bond had been encashed on 
1 August 2012 and pay that to the trustees.
I wasnt persuaded to make any award  for the possibility  that the other capital beneficiary 
might take action against the trustees.
I gave both parties  the opportunity of providing  a response to my provisional decision. Mrs Rs and 
Mrs Ss IFA responded, in short, as follows:
We agree with the majority of points in the decision.
We dont  think Sesames responsibility ended when another  business became responsible for 
giving suitable  advice to the trustees as there is no break in the chain of causation.
Sesame should pay in full for any tax payable by the trust as a result of having to change  the 
investment.
The trustees have never suggested Sesame should pay the difference  between  the financial  
position of the trust as a result of the withdrawals and the position if the adviser had advised  
them not to take withdrawals. It is correct that Mrs R required an income  and the trustees  
dont dispute that.
The trustees have only ever wanted Sesame to provide sufficient compensation  to cover the 
trusts financial  position  if the trustees had been properly advised and the financial position if 
they were to encash the Bond and invest the proceeds, after tax, in a suitable product. 
Encashing the Bond  will incur a tax charge which will make up the bulk of what  the trustees 
expect Sesame to pay.
Unwinding the incorrect advice  and calculating the comparable financial positions  assuming 
the money was invested  in a suitable product,  an income was taken  and allowing for tax 
Ref: DRN36734216liabilities on encashment  to arrive  at fair compensation is something Sesame are unlikely to 
be able to do.
He has previously suggested that a third party such  as a tax accountant should be employed, 
with Sesame to pay the costs. This would also help protect  the trustees  from any future legal 
action from the capital beneficiary.
Sesame responded and said that it agreed with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Sesame agreed with my provisional decision and Mrs R and Mrs S, through  their IFA, agreed with 
most of my findings but have raised two specific issues which I will comment  on. Firstly the IFA has 
said Sesame is responsible  for the tax payable as a result of encashing  the investment now and 
reinvesting in a suitable product and there is no break in the chain of causation  as a result of Mrs R 
and Mrs S seeing a new adviser in August  2012.
I agree with the IFA in part but I dont  think Sesame should be responsible for all the tax payable as a 
result of encashing the investment bond.  In my provisional  decision I said it should be responsible  for 
the tax payable  up to the time Mrs R and Mrs S instructed a new adviser in around August 2012. 
Im persuaded  that it should  pay the tax consequences beyond this on the basis that it is responsible 
for Mrs R and Mrs S being in the wrong investment in the first place  and the fact they saw a new 
adviser in August 2012 didnt bring Sesames  responsibility to an end. But I think  Sesame is only 
responsible for any tax that wouldve been payable  if the investment bond had been cashed in at the 
beginning of 2014.
I say this because Mrs R and Mrs S were told very clearly  in a letter dated 4 December 2013  from 
their new adviser that the investment wasnt suitable. The new adviser  said that according to HMRC 
an investment bond is a non-income  producing asset and recommended changing the investment to 
one that did allow for an income to be paid. 
I think  it wouldve  been  reasonable for Mrs R and Mrs S to have acted on that advice and if they had 
done so they wouldve  encashed the Investment Bond a reasonable time,  which I think  is around a 
month, after receiving the letter. In the circumstances  I think  it is reasonable to use the 4 January  
2014 as the date by which they shouldve  encashed the investment bond and reinvested in a suitable  
investment.
The second  issue raised by the IFA is that Sesame  should pay the costs of a tax accountant. But Im 
not satisfied  that it is reasonable to expect Sesame  to pay for this. I note what the IFA has said but I 
dont think the calculation that has to be carried  out is too complicated for Sesame to do. And if it is 
Sesame can instruct an appropriate expert to carry this out for it.
What Sesame should do to put things right 
Sesame should calculate the notional value of the Investment Bond in the same way as it has already 
done but using 4 January  2014 instead of 1 August 2012 and compare this with the actual value of 
the Investment Bond at 4 January 2014. It should pay the difference  in value to Mrs R and Mrs S.
Sesame should calculate what gain, if any, wouldve been made  by the trust on the amount it 
calculates is due on the basis this amount was held within  the Investment  Bond to the date of 
settlement and pay this. 
Ref: DRN36734217Sesame should pay tax payable  by the trust as a result  of having  to encash the investment but limited 
to the amount of tax that would have been payable  if the Investment Bond had been encashed on 4 
January 2014.
Sesame offered £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused because of the advice that 5% could  
be withdrawn and I dont award  anything above  this as a result  of finding that Sesames original 
advice was also wrong.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained above and in my first provisional  decision. 
Sesame Limited  has to calculate redress as set out above and pay this to Mrs R and Mrs S. It has to 
provide them with its calculations in a simple format. 
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3673421