K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about how Virgin Money  plc has managed his credit card account.
background
Mr S told us that he previously had an airline branded credit card,  managed by a different 
bank. That bank stopped offering the airline  branded card, and he opened a similar card with 
Virgin instead. But Mr S told us that he was very unhappy with it. 
Mr S told us that when  he opened the Virgin card account, although he was unaware of this, 
the direct  debit was set to take only the minimum payment each month, instead of the full 
amount. Mr S said that he only realised that when Virgin told him he had reached his credit 
limit. Mr S said that he didnt usually  look at his statements  each month, but had previously 
cleared the account in full every month, when it was operated by a different  bank.  
Mr S also said that hed noticed  he was being charged non-sterling  transaction  fees for using 
the card abroad. He said that because of this, he decided to purchase some foreign currency 
instead. But he said that because of this, he was charged a cash  advance fee, and Virgin  at 
first told him that was because he'd been  using an online gambling site. Mr S said that it was 
entirely wrong for Virgin  to charge a fee like this for a transaction with an authorised currency  
company, and to treat such  transactions in the same way as gambling, and that should be 
stopped at once. 
Mr S said that these additional  charges  for cash transactions were not openly stated, but 
were hidden in the small print. He said that this should be clear  in advance, so that 
cardholders knew what they would be charged for.
Virgin wrote  to Mr S about his complaint. It told Mr S that when he applied  online for this 
account, there wasnt an option for him to set up a monthly direct debit which would clear the 
full balance. The website  pages told him that a direct debit would  be set up for the minimum 
amount, and hed have  to make changes to that online, or by contacting  Virgin, once the 
account was opened. Virgin said that Mr S hadnt  done  either  of those  things. 
Virgin also said that it had been  sending Mr S monthly statements, which made clear how 
much it would take on each direct  debit payment. So it didnt think it had made a mistake.  
But it had still refunded all of the interest which had been applied to his account. 
Virgin also said that it had charged  Mr S £87.67  in total as a cash  advance  fee. It applied  
that fee to cash  advances, but also to purchases of foreign currency.  Virgin  said that this 
was covered in the credit  agreement, and it said that it wouldnt pay this money  back  to 
Mr S. It did say that it had delayed in recording and responding to Mr Ss complaint about 
this, so it had credited  his account  with £25 to say sorry for that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Mr Ss online application told him 
that his direct debit  was set up for the minimum amount, and so did the statements that 
Virgin was sending him. She didnt think that Virgin was responsible for the confusion around 
the amount his direct debit was set for. 
Our adjudicator also said that Virgin had followed the terms and conditions of its card by 
charging Mr S for foreign  currency purchases. She said that although Virgin mightve  given 
Mr S some wrong  information about  this initially,  that didnt mean the charges were  wrong.  
Ref: DRN35495532Our adjudicator said that she thought Virgin had responded fairly to Mr S's complaint, so she 
wouldnt be asking it to do any more.
Mr S didnt agree with that. He sent us a large  number of emails that hed received from 
Virgin about this card, and a copy of the online application. He set out for us how he got this 
card, and the preceding  one. He explained how he normally uses  the card,  and why its 
benefits were attractive to him. But he repeated that he had no idea that the direct  debit hed 
set up wasnt clearing  the full amount. And that he only found out about charges for 
overseas use, and for cash advances, when he finally opened his statements because  hed 
gone over his limit and the card had been stopped. Mr S didnt think  that these charges were  
sufficiently clear.
Mr S wanted  his complaint to be reconsidered, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.  
I know that Mr S previously had a card which carried the same  airline  brand, which was 
operated by a different bank. It may assist if I set out at the start that Mr Ss new card, with 
Virgin, isnt the same agreement. Hes entered into a new,  and entirely separate, contract  
with Virgin  for this card. So some things about how this card works may well be different to 
the old one. 
Mr S has said that he was told nothing would change. Ive read the information he sent us 
about the new card carefully, and I havent  been able to see any evidence  that this 
statement was made. And I think that Mr S probably did know from the outset that some  
things about this card were going  to be a bit different. He told us that he saw once hed 
applied that his new credit  limit was lower. 
Virgin has told Mr S that when he applied online for this account, there  wasnt  an option  for 
him to set up a monthly direct debit  which would clear the full balance. The website  pages  
told him that a direct  debit would be set up for the minimum amount, and hed have to make  
changes to that online, or by contacting Virgin, once the account was opened. Virgin  has 
shown us the web pages which say that, so Im satisfied that this is what happened.
Mr S has sent us an application  form, which contains  a link to the summary box that sets out 
details of rates and fees on the card. Mr S said that this information was hidden,  because he 
had to click through to see it. But Mr Ss statements also say that Mr S will pay a 5% 
transaction fee for cash  advances. They tell Mr S where he can find further information on 
that. And the statements  also set out the charges that may be applied for using his card 
overseas. 
Virgin has also sent our service a copy of information on the credit agreement Mr S entered 
into with Virgin. That sets out its fees and charges, and makes clear that both online 
gambling transactions and the purchase  of foreign currency will be treated as cash  
advances, and will incur  a charge. Thats not an uncommon approach for credit card 
companies to take. 
Ref: DRN35495533I know that Mr S says that when hes buying foreign currency, he thinks  thats just an 
ordinary purchase  of goods, the goods in this case being bank notes. But I dont  think its 
unreasonable to treat the purchase of foreign  currency (a purchase which  does result in 
Mr S receiving cash) as a cash advance.  I dont think that these charges are unfair. And I 
dont think that Virgin had failed to make  this information available to Mr S. 
I know Mr S expected this card to be the same as the last one carrying the same  brand, and 
it isnt. He says it just isnt as good.  I understand why he thinks that, it doesnt seem as if this 
card suits Mr S as well as the one it replaced. But it is a different contract. I cant require 
Virgin to provide the same service as Mr S was receiving previously from a different bank, or 
to replicate those  terms and conditions. 
Im sorry  to have to tell Mr S that I dont  think his complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3549553