K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank  has unfairly 
charged him for using his credit card for certain  types of transactions.
background
Mr H says hes been charged a cash transaction fee and interest for using his Tesco credit 
card. He says hes been charged  the interest  when the transaction took place  and so its 
impossible to avoid  interest unless  a payment is made immediately and even then he 
wouldnt know how much  that should  be for. Mr H would  like a full refund of the interest  as 
well as a £12 fee he says he was charged  as a result  of Tesco  charging  him interest. He 
also questions why Tesco increased his credit limit at that time and wants  Tescos  policy  on 
these charges changed.
Tesco says it told Mr H in April 2018 that it was making changes to the type of transactions  it 
classed as cash transactions, and so subject to a fee and interest.  It says it made  those 
changes in line with the original terms and conditions  and also included details of the 
changes on Mr Hs credit  card statement.  Tesco doesnt accept making a mistake and says 
Mr H couldve  rejected  the credit limit increase.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. She thought Tesco  had 
acted in line with the account terms and conditions by giving Mr H notice of the changes  and 
had provided details of them. She didnt think Tesco had made a mistake by charging the 
£12 fee or the interest and she couldnt tell Tesco to change  its policy  on this matter. The 
adjudicator also thought  that Mr H couldve objected to the credit limit increase and had used 
it.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says that just because details of the interest and fees are 
in the terms and conditions doesnt  mean  they are good practice  and says the law needs 
changing. He also questions how he can make cash transaction  without paying interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr H will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, which Im satisfied Mr H agreed to when the 
account was opened. And Im satisfied that Tesco is entitled to make changes to the credit 
card agreement if appropriate notice is given. Ive looked at the letter Tesco  sent Mr H and 
the information it provided him on the account statement and Im satisfied that it provided  
that notice and information about the changes. So I dont think  Tesco made a mistake by 
charging Mr H a cash transaction fee or interest when he used his credit  card for certain 
types of transactions. I also dont think Tesco made a mistake by applying the £12 fee.
I appreciate Mr H says that in those circumstances it becomes  impossible  to avoid paying 
interest. But Im satisfied that its up to Tesco to make those sorts of business decisions  
when exercising its commercial judgement. And its not an area I can fairly interfere in as for 
the reasons Ive explained I find it told Mr H about those changes.  Mr H will no doubt  
consider if his Tesco credit card is appropriate  for this type of transaction.
Ref: DRN31154512I understand Mr Hs frustration and that he believes the law needs changing. Im sure he 
appreciates that is not something  this service can fairly order and I should explain that we 
are not the regulator of banks or building societies.
Overall Im satisfied Tesco hasnt made a mistake here and so I cant fairly  order it to refund 
the money Mr H would like. Ive not seen any evidence that Tesco made  a mistake by 
increasing Mr Hs credit  limit and can see that it was used.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3115451