K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Cs credit card application had a section  for optional features, one of which  was PPI. 
It gave an overview  of what the policy was for, and then had two tick boxes to choose 
from: one to buy the policy and one to turn it down.  Both boxes were equally  prominent, 
and neither one appears to have been  pre-selected. The box to buy PPI was ticked  and 
Mr C signed the application to confirm  his choices.  So I think  that Lloyds made it clear 
Mr C didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose  to take it at the time  though I can 
understand why he might no longer  remember this after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C, so it had to check that the policy was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and from 
what hes told us Mr C doesnt seem  to have had any other  cover  in case he was off work 
sick or lost his job. So the policy could  have really  been  useful for him in case  he fell on 
difficult times.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks  like he chose to take out the policy, which implies he wanted 
this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it would have  been useful for Mr C if something 
went wrong. Then if his circumstances changed or he changed  his mind, Mr C could 
cancel the policy  at any time without a penalty.  So overall,  I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
Mr C said he tried to claim  on the policy in 2002  but wasnt  eligible. Neither side seem  to 
have a record of this claim. I dont know what Mr Cs circumstances were in 2002, but 
I can confirm he was eligible for the policy  when  he bought it in 2001. In this case Ive 
only looked at the sale of the policy rather than what happened after. Mr C may still be 
able to make a back-dated claim on the PPI. If hed like to do that, he should  get back in 
touch with Lloyds.  And if he has any trouble with the back-dated  claim, he may be able to 
bring that to our service as a separate complaint.
Lastly, I understand Mr Cs point  that he got a refund for other PPI policies. But different 
PPI policies worked in different  ways, and were sold by different methods at different 
times. So just because one particular policy was mis-sold, it doesnt  necessarily  mean 
that a different one was, too. Ive explained  above why I do not think  that this particular 
PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN38426252This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3842625