K820x#14Complaint
Mr K says The Co-operative Bank  Plc (The Co-op) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for a flexible  loan.
Background
Mr K took out a PPI policy with a flexi-loan  in 1996 by post. Mr K paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium. It covered his flexi-loan  repayments  in case he was off sick or out 
of work.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ks PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr K applied for this loan by post in his own time. His application had a section for PPI, with 
a box that could be ticked if he wanted  the policy, or which could be left blank if he didnt 
want it. The box was ticked and Mr K signed  the application to confirm  his choices. So I think 
that The Co-op made Mr K aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it, though I can understand if he no longer  remembers doing so after so many  years.
The Co-op didnt  give Mr K tailored advice about  buying PPI, so they didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. They did have to give Mr K clear information about  the PPI.
Its possible that the information The Co-op gave Mr K about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr K chose  to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted 
this type of cover. From what  hes told us of his circumstances, it looks  like Mr K was eligible 
for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its key exclusions or limitations. For instance, 
while Mr K was self-employed, from what Ive seen of the terms for this type of policy  around 
the time of his sale, he still wouldve  been covered for unemployment and it shouldnt have 
been significantly harder  for him to claim. Mr K was also still covered if he couldnt  work 
because of an accident or illness.
Mr K doesnt  seem  to have had any other cover in place, so without PPI he was at risk of 
getting into arrears on the loan if things went wrong.  Mr K did say he mightve  had some 
savings, though it sounds like those wouldnt have lasted  long if needed  to cover his income. 
And the PPI meant he could effectively protect  his savings and use them for other things  
instead of having to sacrifice them to cover his repayments. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful for Mr K in his circumstances. Overall,  I dont think  that better information was 
likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN37387252My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3738725