K821x#15complaint
Mrs S (a director)  complained on behalf  of her company  (Company S) to Paymentsense 
Limited because  she says the time it took for transactions  to settle  through Paymentsense 
was much slower than she was told it would  be when  she entered into the contract for this 
payment service. So she wants the contract  cancelled and not to pay anything  further.
Background
In August  2019  I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I found that 
Paymentsense had misrepresented  the contract  to Company S and thus should make  things  
right. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached my final 
decision. Paymentsense has responded to my provisional decision and I shall outline  its 
position and my responses below. Company S has agreed with my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Paymentsense has said it feels my decision is incorrect.  My position  is based on the test 
Im obliged to apply, namely the balance of probabilities. I said in my provisional decision 
that Paymentsense misrepresented its services to Company S. Id arrived  at this because of 
what Company S has told this service about how its interactions at the time went  with the 
Paymentsense representative and what they were told and then relied on. Paymentsense 
has said as I have  quoted in my provisional  decision we do not know what  was discussed  at 
the point of sale face to face. This is the crux of the issue. Ultimately the people who spoke 
to the Paymentsense representative at the time are those complaining now. Paymentsense 
accept it doesnt  know what happened. So Im not persuaded to change  my position  on that.
Paymentsense has raised the issue  that Company S corresponded with it seven times 
before complaining. Ive considered this and asked for evidence from both parties. 
Paymentsense having raised this issue has since explained its lost the call recordings of the 
calls between Company  S and it in the timeframe  concerned which  is disappointing.  
Paymentsense has provided its contact notes and Company S has provided transaction 
reports and comment.  I can see that these services  started being used by Company S on 
24th July. But by 03 August Company S was in contact with Paymentsense unhappy with the 
service it was receiving and certain services were removed. On 06 August I can see a 
contact note stating  Not happy with leasing charges and that the final outcome of that 
contact was Saved:  GOGW: Free rental. Then on the 15 August another  contact note when  
a complaint was raised. Having considered these contacts in the round it seems clear  that 
Company S was unhappy with the service it was receiving before the complaint was actually 
logged as a complaint. And I can see Paymentsense reduced services provided  and waived 
costs within  the seven occasions there was contact  between it and Company S before it 
complained. In the round I think this evidence supports Company S testimony even more 
and I think Paymentsenses position  is now weaker  on this particular  point than when I wrote 
my provisional decision.
Paymentsense has questioned the exact nature of what Company S previous provider of 
these services provided to Company S at that time.  This is missing the point.  Company  S left 
the previous provider in order to get the service that Paymentsense  misrepresented  to it. 
Ref: DRN33262162Once it was clear it had been misrepresented to Company S returned to its previous  
provider. Clearly Company S only left the previous provider because  it relied  on what 
Paymentsense told it. And clearly the service Paymentsense provided wasnt as good  as the 
previous provider that Company S has since returned to in its opinion. 
Paymentsense has questioned the Company  S position of having a strong  business  need 
for fast settlement and has pointed to it being a business that has been in business for many 
decades and has a very high balance  without cash flow issues. Firstly how a company  runs 
itself is entirely for it to decide and clearly  how it settles its transactions is a key part of this. 
Furthermore considering  the nature of the business  it is in, where some transactions will 
have significant  value I can fully see why it would  wish to have fast settlement  when  selling 
items that have intrinsic  value. Lastly it would seem to me that such  a business may have 
long standing and strong balances and cash flow precisely because of the way it manages 
its finances including how it wishes its payments  to settle.
Lastly Paymentsense doesnt want to pay the inconvenience payment which I felt was due. It 
has made no persuasive argument as to why this shouldnt be paid. However  I can see that 
Company S has been to put to significant inconvenience by what  Paymentsense has done  
here. The redress methodology as I described  previously,  having  not seen any persuasive 
reason to alter it, accordingly remains unchanged. 
So having  considered everything  I see no reason  to change  my position  as described in my 
provisional decision and above. Accordingly I direct Paymentsense to:
Release Company  S from the payment service contract  at no cost to Company S
Write  off any arrears that Company  S has built up under that contract
Pay all costs incurred by Company S in exiting the terminal hire contract (or if 
possible liaise with the terminal  hire company to ensure all such  costs are written  off)
Pay Company  S £200 for the inconvenience  of everything that has happened.
Write  to Company S when all of this has been done explaining how and when it has 
fulfilled these directions. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Paymentsense Limited  and I direct  it to redress these matters 
in the manner I have described above  and in the provisional decision attached.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S on behalf  of 
Company S to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33262163COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S (a director) complained  on behalf of her company (Company S) to Paymentsense Limited 
because she says the time it took for transactions to settle through  Paymentsense was much  slower 
than she was told it would be when she entered into the contract  for this payment service. So she 
wants the contract cancelled and not to pay anything further. 
background to complaint
Mrs S complained to Paymentsense about  this and it didnt agree. It said Company S hadnt selected 
its express funding option (which is its quicker  settlement option and attracts an additional fee) so 
Company S received its standard option  which  means transactions take three to five days to clear. So 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong. So Mrs S complained  here.
The investigator felt the contract had been misrepresented to Company S and thought that the 
contract should be voided.  Paymentsense  didnt  agree so this complaint has come  to me for a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
I have decided to issue a provisional  decision at this stage. Although I currently agree with the 
adjudicator that this complaint should be upheld, I think currently that the way Paymentsense  should 
put things right is different to the methodology the adjudicator set out. As a consequence it seems fair 
that both parties  have  one final say on the matter.
Ive considered what Company S has said throughout  this complaint. I note that it has been consistent  
throughout. The reasons given for changing provider to Paymentsense were consistent around having 
a strong business need to have  quick settlement  due to the type of business  they have.  And that it 
only changed  to Paymentsense as a result of being told that transactions  would  settle quickly  and 
would settle in similar  times  to Faster Payments (albeit thats a different type of transaction). 
Settlement time for such transactions  is clearly of utmost importance  bearing in mind  the nature  of the 
business Company S does.  I can also see that as soon  as the slower settlement process became  
clear to Company S in practice  it was unhappy with this and complained  to Paymentsense  promptly 
(and indeed then this Service).
Company S has said At the point of signing the contract,  all we were  given in relation to funding were  
verbal terms, and these  terms were that we would  be getting  'faster payments' and settlement would 
be within 24 hours,  and 48 hours  maximum  in exceptional circumstances. We were  not shown 
anywhere that 'standard UK funding is 3-5 working days'.
I can also see that the representatives of Company S who discussed the sale with the representative  
of Paymentsense are the same individuals who are complaining now. On the contrary  Paymentsense 
have not provided any comment  from its representative who spoke to Company S. In fact it has said 
we do not know what was discussed at the point of sale face to face. 
I also note that Paymentsense in its response to the adjudicators view didnt argue that its 
representative didnt misrepresent the contract. It simply argues the position is not fair and that what  
Company S say was said to them wasnt in the contract. I dont  find its arguments  persuasive.
On balance Im happy to rely on what Company S has told us happened did in fact happen. I say this 
because I prefer the consistent and persuasive  comments of those  present about  what  was said up to 
Ref: DRN33262164and at the crucial point  of committing to the contract, rather than the comments  of the business as to 
what happened.
Paymentsense says that on the paperwork  signed it doesnt say what  the settlement time for 
transactions would be and that Company S didnt chose the fast settlement option. Im not persuaded  
by this. I dont  think the paperwork makes sufficiently clear what  the settlement times would be for 
either form of transaction.  And so I dont think the paperwork  was sufficient  to unwind what  the 
Paymentsense representative told Company  S about settlement times. Ive considered  the 
documentation and note it is closely worded, in small  font and voluminous. And Im not persuaded  
that the Express Funding option is sufficiently clear to understand that this is a faster  settlement 
option (at an extra  cost).
Consequently I am satisfied that the contract was materially misrepresented  to Company  S. And that 
had the representative explained exactly the settlement terms they were  getting and costs I think  on 
balance that they wouldnt  have  taken  the contract that they did. As a consequence I am currently 
minded that Paymentsense should rescind  the contract and put Company S back  into the position it 
would have been in had it not entered the contract.
And as Im currently minded that Company S wouldnt  have  taken  this payment service  contract from 
Paymentsense if it hadnt  been  misrepresented  to it then I also conclude it wouldnt have then entered 
into the terminal hire agreement with the terminal  hire partner company that Paymentsense works  
with. I say this because  I am satisfied Company S would have remained  in the contracts  it had 
previously for both payment services and terminal  hire. So I think  it fair that Paymentsense pick up 
liability for any costs  Company S incur  in extricating itself from Paymentsenses  partners who provide 
terminal hire services.
What the business  should  do to put things right
I think  it fair that Paymentsense  make an inconvenience payment to Company S. I say this because  
Im satisfied that had Paymentsense not misrepresented the contract  Company S wouldnt  have taken  
it. As such it wouldnt  have had to go through the inconvenience of changing provider and then 
changing back. So it seems  fair that Paymentsense make good for this.
Company S has had the benefit of the processing of the transactions that Paymentsense  processed 
for it. So Paymentsense doesnt have to return any charges Company S paid it during the time that 
Company S was using its services.
Company S has also had the benefit of using the terminals. If there are any repair costs incurred to 
the terminal  hire partners  once  the terminals are returned  then Paymentsense does not have to cover 
those costs and that can be settled between Company S and the terminal  hire partner if the partner 
firm chooses to do so.
So in summary Paymentsense should:
Release Company S from the payment service contract  at no cost to Company S
Write off any arrears that Company S has built up under that contract
Pay all costs incurred by Company  S in exiting the terminal hire contract (or if possible liaise 
with the terminal hire company to ensure all such costs are written off)
Pay Company S £200 for the inconvenience  of everything that has happened.
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to uphold  this complaint and direct Paymentsense Limited to resolve matters as 
Ive described above. As such  I now invite  both parties to let me have their responses in line with the 
guidance at the beginning of this decision.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3326216