K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S  Bank)  doesnt 
have compliant online systems in place. He says its incorrectly told him his regular saver 
account is still open when he knows it closed. He wants compensation for the impact this 
has had on him.
background
In July 2015 Mr G began a regular monthly savings account  with a term of one year  with 
M&S Bank. Every year since, when one account has run its term, Mr G has begun another. 
Although he hasnt always been able to set them up for a few days  after the existing one has 
matured. 
But on 6 August 2018 Mr G contacted M&S Bank  to complain that when he tried to open a 
new savings account   following a maturity on 4 August 2018, its systems had informed him 
that he still had an account set up. But he said no such  account existed as it should have 
been closed. He said this meant M&S  Bank held incorrect  information  within  its systems 
which was in contravention  of the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).   He said it 
wasnt correct that M&S Bank said his existing account was still open when clearly it had 
been closed on 4 August 2018.  And he didnt think it was fair that he couldnt open a new 
account at that point.
M&S Bank says Mr G had raised  this issue before in 2016, and it had told him that it can 
take up to five working days, following the maturity of an account,  for the process  to 
complete. It says this information was made clear in the literature  it sent Mr G two weeks 
before the maturity  date. 
In its response to Mr Gs complaint M&S  Bank said his existing account  matured  on 
4 August 2018  and he was unable to apply for a new monthly saver until the process had 
completed. It said Mr G did subsequently open  a new account,  which  it was possible for him 
to do on 7 August  2018 when the previous  account was successfully closed.
But Mr G remained  unhappy with M&S Banks response and brought his complaint to us 
where one of our adjudicators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld as he thought M&S Bank  had acted fairly.  He said M&S Bank had made Mr G aware  
of the maturity process within  the letter it sent him prior to the accounts maturity  date. And 
he thought it had explained the position in the telephone conversation it had with Mr G. He 
also said M&S Bank had offered Mr G the alternative of opening the account  over the phone 
 which  would have  meant opening the account on the first available  date after the previous 
one matured.
Mr G disagreed. He said hed contacted M&S  Bank to tell it that there was a fault within its 
systems as it had transferred his funds to another account but still maintained  the original 
account was open. He said he wanted  M&S Bank  to confirm there was a problem with the 
systems and to compensate him for the time he had spent  bringing his complaint and 
explaining the issue. 
So as no resolution  could be found  the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN33039762Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr Gs frustration with this 
situation as he assumed  that when his regular saver account  matured it would have closed 
at the same  time and he should  have  been  able to start a new plan straight  away. And I have  
some sympathy for his position. But I dont think M&S Bank has done anything  wrong here,  
which isnt the outcome  Mr G would  have hoped for  so Ill explain why.
In order to be clear, I should  first explain that my role is not usually to determine if any data 
protection laws have been breached  thats  for the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  
to decide. In this case M&S hasnt accepted theres  been any breach and hasnt reported it 
to the ICO. 
But I can look at if theres  been any impact  on Mr G as a result of this matter and whether I 
think M&S Bank has acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mr G says that when he logged onto his online banking he could see the matured funds had 
been transferred  to savings account. And he then transferred them to an external  account, 
so as far as he was concerned the account was closed and he should  have been able to set 
up a new regular saver. He thinks  its wrong  that M&S Bank refuses to accept his original 
account was closed and also unfair that he couldnt set up a new one.
Ive looked at the letter M&S Bank sent Mr G on 19 July 2018, prior to his savings account 
maturity date. The letter confirmed the maturity date was 4 August 2018 and enclosed  a 
copy of frequently asked questions  about  the maturity  process.  One of the questions  was 
why cant I see my monthly  saver account  when  I log onto to online banking.
The answer given  was If you have  an everyday  savings account in the same name as your 
monthly saver, the balance and interest will be transferred  into that account, otherwise we 
will transfer the balance  and interest  into your M&S  account. Its worth noting that this 
process can take up to five working days and during this time you may not be able to see the 
money from this account via online  banking.
And I think this statement made  it clear  that  when the savings account  matured,  the 
process involved in transferring  the money,  and thereby ensuring the account was closed 
could take up to five working days.  I note Mr G says he could see the money had transferred 
and he says the closure of the Regular Saver account and transfer  of the funds into a new 
Easy Saver  account  cannot be separated from a time perspective. And I accept the logic of 
Mr Gs viewpoint. But M&S Bank  had made  him aware that the process could take a further 
five working days before  it considered  the account  was closed and, while Mr G might not 
agree with that, its a process  that M&S had established and had explained  in its literature.  
I think its a matter for M&S Bank  to set out its own process for this type of thing  and we 
wouldnt normally interfere with a business  everyday  decisions and processes. So I cant  
safely say M&S Bank has done anything wrong  here because  its acted in line with how it 
said it would  and had previously made  Mr G aware of that.
I note that Mr G contacted  M&S Bank on the first working day after his account matured, 
which was the first available opportunity to start a new savings account, and Ive listened  
very carefully to the call he had with M&S Bank.  
Ref: DRN33039763Ive heard how the adviser explained why his existing account wasnt actually closed  but 
Ive also heard how he gave Mr G the option  of setting up the account  by telephone  to 
override the issue with an online application.  I know Mr G has said that the process would 
have taken much longer  by telephone, which would have inconvenienced him further, but I 
think M&S Bank acted  reasonably in giving Mr G an alternative way of setting up a new 
regular saver account. Ive also borne in mind  that would have enabled  Mr G to open  the 
account as soon as his existing one was closed. So I dont think  M&S Bank has acted 
unfairly there  either.
Ultimately here, although Mr G isnt happy about  M&S Banks  process when closing a 
matured savings account, and he thinks its given incorrect information  through  its systems, I 
cant say M&S Bank did anything wrong  here as it did make Mr G aware of process prior to 
the maturity. And while Mr G thinks he should be compensated  for the time and trouble hes 
gone to in bringing his complaint, I think,  from time to time we all experience  some  
inconvenience when  dealing with financial firms but not to the extent that payment for that 
distress and inconvenience is warranted.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3303976