K821x#15complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the level of fee Quigley  and Carter Limited charged her following a 
successful PPI claim.
background
In May 2018  Mrs K asked Quigley and Carter  to pursue a PPI claim for her. She signed a 
letter of authority on 16 May 2018.  The fee payable on a successful claim was set out in the 
agreement attached to the letter of authority. This explained that Mrs K would pay 30% of 
any successful claim,  plus VAT.
She signed a further letter  of authority in August 2018. Quigley and Carter says that she was 
also made aware of the 30% fee at this time.
In October  2018 she received a PPI refund from the lender. Quigley  and Carter  sent her an 
invoice asking for its fee. Mrs K complained, as she said the fee was too high.
Quigley and Carter  explained to her that shed signed up to its service  on an electronic 
portal. It said its terms and conditions showed the fee was set at 30% plus VAT.
It also told her that the fee cap which came into force was only for any new business a 
Claims Management Company (CMC) would  take on, and not for existing clients that signed 
up prior to the change  in fee. It said that she would be subject to the fee of 30% plus VAT 
because shed signed up to its service on 5 May 2018. It told her it did not need to make her 
aware of the fee change as it didnt  apply to her.
She complained to the Legal  Ombudsman in February 2019. The case was passed to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) in April 2019 as part of 
the change in the regulation of CMCs.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He found that the fee charged by Quigley 
and Carter was too high.  He said that the Claims Management Regulator (CMR)  issued 
guidance for firms in May 2018. This stated that the CMR expected  businesses  to inform all 
new or potential clients  of the change to the fees that could be charged,  and for businesses 
to tailor their approach  depending on the way in which  they operate  to ensure compliance 
with these rules.  He said he hadnt  seen  any evidence to show  it had told Mrs K about the 
upcoming fee cap.
Quigley and Carter  disagreed. It said Mrs K had never complained  about  the fee percentage. 
It said she was aware  of the fee and couldve pursued the claim herself.  It said there was 
enough media attention  on the fee cap for her to have been  aware  of the intentions  of the 
FCA.
The case  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN39371822The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the CMR to introduce a fee 
cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, CMCs 
couldnt legally charge  a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT.
Quigley and Carter  told Mrs K that the change only applied to new business taken on by a 
CMC.
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance  to all CMCs. This said from the date of this 
guidance you should inform all new or potential  clients of the upcoming change to the fees 
you can charge. In December 2018,  the CMR told the Legal  Ombudsman how this guidance  
should be applied.  They confirmed that, once the guidance had been issued, we expected 
businesses to inform  all new or potential clients of the change to the fees that could be 
charged.
Ive looked at the date Mrs K entered into an agreement with Quigley and Carter  to decide 
what shouldve happened. In its response to Mrs K, Quigley and Carter said that shed 
signed up to its service on 5 May 2018. But it confirmed to our investigator that Mrs K 
actually signed  up on 16 May 2018. Im satisfied that she didnt sign up until 16 May 2018, 
as this is the date on the forms she signed.  And as this was after the CMR had issued its 
guidance, I think that Quigley and Carter  shouldve made her aware  of the fee cap that was 
coming into force.
But what  I find more persuasive is the letter of authority signed by Mrs K in August 2018. 
This was sent to Mrs K when it was found that there  had been  PPI on one of her accounts. 
Quigley and Carter  told us she couldve chosen at this point  not to use its services and 
pursue the claim  on her own. Im satisfied that the CMRs guidance applies, and that Quigley 
and Carter shouldve  limited its fees in line with the guidance.
And even  if I were to rely on its own terms and conditions, I would expect Quigley  and Carter  
to limit its fee to no more  than 20% plus VAT. This is because the terms state  that the 
agreement would only take effect  after PPI has been identified. And the guidance is clear 
that all contracts connected  to PPI complaints entered into after 10 July 2018 must comply 
with the restriction  on fees.
Im satisfied that Quigley  and Carter shouldve told Mrs K in May 2018 of the change  to the 
fees CMCs  can charge.  And Im satisfied that when  it issued a new letter  of authority and 
new terms and conditions  to Mrs K in August 2018,  it shouldve made clear that the fee 
would be no more than 20%, plus VAT. It was its responsibility to make this clear  to its 
clients. Its not for clients to raise  this should  they happen to find information in the press.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Quigley and Carter  Limited  
to limit the fee it charges  Mrs K to no more than 20% plus VAT of the amount offered by the 
lender.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3937182