K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same  time Mrs O took out 
the card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs O says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the policy 
was mis-sold. 
I completed a provisional decision on 5 July 2019,  which is attached and forms part of this
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside  a 
store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs O took out the card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs O says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN38269712My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs O says she wasnt aware she had the insurance. But Ive seen a copy  of the store  card 
application form Mrs O saw and signed. In this there is a section  for PPI where there is a tick in the 
yes box to agree to the cover. But Ive not seen anything in this form which  suggests Mrs O had to 
take out the cover or that she wouldnt be able to take out the store card without it. So I think Mrs O 
wouldve known she couldve left this section blank  if she didnt want the PPI. Mrs O then signed at 
the bottom of this application  form  so I think this reflected what she wanted  at the time.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs O so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs O got the information  she needed to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. And 
Mrs O says she was suffering from a medical condition at the time of sale. Having reviewed  the terms 
of the policy it appears Mrs O wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy  for this pre-existing 
condition. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that they felt Mrs O would not have taken  
out the policy  had FICL made  this exclusion clear to her.
But thinking  about what shes told us about her condition and the fact that she was taking  regular 
medication to keep her condition under control, I think its unlikely Mrs O would have thought this 
would be the main  reason she might have needed to claim on the policy.
Especially since she told us this condition didnt  affect  her on a day-to-day basis and she had never 
had time off work for this condition in this past.  So I think she wouldve wanted this policy  to cover her 
for more  serious, unexpected conditions and I dont think better information about the exclusions 
around pre-existing  medical conditions  wouldve  put her off taking out the PPI.
And based on everything else Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so I think  it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would have  
put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Os outstanding  monthly balance  until she 
had returned to work or her outstanding balance had been paid off. Mrs O has told us that she 
wouldve received some sick pay from her employer and she couldve relied on her husband  to 
support her. She also mentioned she may have had some savings at the time - but she couldnt 
confirm how much  she had. And although  Im sure Mrs Os husband  wouldve been willing to support 
her, help from others cant always be guaranteed as their  circumstances can also change. The PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Os sick pay and savings and its likely to have paid out for longer.  
So these funds couldve  been used  for other expenses. And so l still think  the policy  wouldve been 
useful for her and I dont think better information wouldve  put her off taking out the cover.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 5 August 2019.
Ref: DRN38269713Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3826971