K820x#14Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  at the interest and charges Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) added to his 
overdraft over the years.
Background
Mr M has made a number of complaints to Lloyds about the fees added  to his overdraft over 
the years. Weve  already  explained to Mr M why were only able to look at events 
surrounding his most  recent complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ms concerns and eventually  reached the conclusion 
Lloyds hadnt  done anything wrong  or treated  Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything  provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that Mr M has in some  of his correspondence referred  to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want  to be clear  in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various  amounts Lloyds charged  over the years were fair 
and reasonable,  or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service  provided. 
Ultimately how much  a bank charges for services is a commercial  decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved  with.
That said,  while Im not looking at Lloyds various charging structures per se, it wont have 
acted fairly  and reasonably towards  Mr M if it applied any interest,  fees and charges to         
Mr Ms account in circumstances where  it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware  Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether 
there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr M fairly and reasonably.  
I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say this 
because having  looked at Mr Ms statements I cant see anything to suggest that Lloyds  
ought to have realised he might  have been  experiencing  financial difficulty prior to it being  
notified of this. I accept  that Mr M was using his overdraft  regularly.  But while Mr M has 
referred to being  unable  to pay his bills its clear that this account wasnt  being  used for his 
day-to-day financial affairs. I say this because I cant see any direct debits or bill payments 
going from this account. It looks like the vast majority of transactions  were debit card 
purchases.  
And while Im not seeking to make  retrospective value judgements over Mr Ms expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed,  non-contractual  and 
discretionary transactions going from the account. Furthermore, Mr M was able to bring  the 
account into credit on occasions before once again going on to use his overdraft to make  
debit card transactions.
Ref: DRN38197282I accept neither of these  things in themselves (or taken together)  mean  that Mr M wasnt  
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions  in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any potential financial  difficulty. So, in these 
circumstances I dont  think  that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed  with adding the 
interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Ms account was being used. Id also add 
that Lloyds reduced  the interest  and charges  on the account when it introduced  a new 
charging structure in November  2017.  And as Mr M did manage to clear the overdraft at the 
end of this period, I cant reasonably say the new charges were applied at a time when Mr M 
had no option  other  than to accept them. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr M unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate  that this will 
be very disappointing for Mr M  especially as hes been waiting some time for this answer. 
But I hope hell understand  the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3819728