K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr B, who are represented by a third party, complained to us that AE Financial 
Services Ltd (AE Financial Services)  mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in June 2005. They bought the PPI to go with a mortgage. The PPI only covered 
Mrs B. 
background
In January 2016 one of our adjudicators told Mrs and Mr B and AE Financial Services that 
he thought the PPI had been  mis-sold. This was because  Mrs B was unlikely to be able to 
make a successful claim on the policy due to a pre-existing medical condition. 
AE Financial Services disagreed with the adjudicators finding. It also said it wasnt  
responsible for the sale of the policy. Instead it said Business A, the mortgage  lender, was 
responsible. 
In September  2016 another one of our adjudicators told Mrs and Mr B and AE Financial 
Services that he thought AE Financial Services was responsible for the sale of the policy. 
And so it followed that the finding that the PPI had been mis-sold had been made against 
the right business.  
In my provisional decision dated  6 March 2019  I explained  why I currently thought that AE 
Financial Services were  responsible for the sale of PPI to Mrs and Mr B. I also made  a 
provisional finding that AE Financial Services had mis-sold the policy. 
I set out an extract  below:
In reaching  my decision, Im first going  to consider  whether AE Financial Services was 
responsible for selling the PPI. Then, if I think it was, I will go on to consider  whether or not 
the policy was mis-sold.
Is AE Financial Services responsible for the sale of the PPI?
Based on what Ive seen  so far, Im currently satisfied that AE Financial Services was 
responsible for the sale of the PPI to Mrs and Mr B. Ill explain why. 
 
Ive seen that the representative who previously worked for AE Financial Services  has 
confirmed that he discussed the merits of taking out PPI with Mrs and Mr B to see if it was 
suitable for them and also something  theyd be able to afford. 
This is supported by the letter the representative sent Mrs B and Mr B in June  2005,  after 
hed met them to discuss their requirements. The letter said hed spoken about accident, 
sickness and redundancy insurance  with them. This shows that PPI had been discussed  
with Mrs and Mr B and that theyd  then taken the decision to go ahead with the cover. 
AE Financial Services, having contacted their former representative, have confirmed that it 
was his usual  practice  to discuss the merits of having PPI cover before agreeing with the 
customer if it would be suitable and affordable. The representative said this discussion 
included the advantages and disadvantages  of the product as well as outlining potential 
exclusions, if material facts were disclosed on the application. This further  demonstrates that 
that AE Financial Services were taking  responsibility for the sale of the PPI 
Ref: DRN35289862Ive also seen that following the discussion,  Business A provided separate  quotes for the PPI 
for Mrs and Mr B. Mrs B went ahead  with the cover, but Mr B did not. AE Financial Services 
have told us that the representatives usual practice  was to ask Business A to confirm  the 
cover in writing with a formal quotation of benefits.  The covering letter from Business A said 
Mrs B needed to tell the representative from AE Financial Services that she wanted to go 
ahead with the cover. I think this further  shows that AE Financial Services  had control  of the 
PPI sales process. And so I consider it follows that their representative was taking 
responsibility for the sale of the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that Mrs and Mr B received a recommendation 
about taking out the policy  and decided to go ahead  and buy the cover.  And it was the 
representative from AE Financial Services  not Business A  who was responsible for 
ensuring that Mrs and Mr B would  be completing their purchase of the cover.  
It follows that I currently agree with our adjudicator that Mrs and Mr B were  advised by AE 
Financial Services about buying PPI cover  at the same time as AE Financial Services helped  
them apply for the mortgage borrowing. 
Im therefore  currently satisfied that AE Financial Services is responsible for looking at this 
PPI mis-sale complaint. 
Was the PPI mis-sold?
The PPI sale happened at a meeting. As I mentioned above,  the representative has 
confirmed he discussed the PPI with Mrs and Mr B before they made their decision to buy it. 
This included checking  that policy was suitable and that they could afford it. From that, I 
think its reasonably  clear that AE Financial Services recommended  the policy to 
Mrs and Mr B. That means it had to ensure that the PPI was suitable for their situation and 
that the information they received about it was clear and not misleading. 
The policy terms would have limited  Mrs Bs ability to make a successful  claim.  This is 
because when she and Mr B bought the cover  Mrs B already had an existing medical 
condition which would  have prevented  her from claiming for it. 
AE Financial Services had to ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mrs and Mr B. It also 
had to ensure  it highlighted  the important terms and conditions  the exclusion relating to 
existing medical conditions being  one of them  so that Mrs and Mr B could be aware about 
how these could affect them before deciding to take out the policy. I cant  see that that 
happened.
 
Given the nature of Mrs Bs medical condition, I think the policy  exclusions wouldve been  
important to her. But I cant see they were sufficiently brought  to her attention. 
When responding to our adjudicators view,  AE Financial Services  told us it was surprised 
that Mrs B hadnt mentioned her medical  condition. But I would have expected its 
representative to have prompted  her to disclose facts and information that would be relevant 
to her taking  out PPI cover.  As AE Financial  Services were recommending PPI it was up to 
their representative to explain to Mrs and Mr B how being able to claim successfully could be 
affected by the policy  exclusions.
 
Ref: DRN35289863It follows that I currently think  if Mrs and Mr B had been made  properly aware of the policy 
exclusion when discussing the policy  with AE Financial Services  representative, Mrs B 
would have decided  not to take out the policy.
 
All of this means  that I dont think Mrs and Mr B had all the information they needed at the 
point of sale  that is, the discussion with the representative from AE Financial Services. 
Had they been given better information  I dont think  they wouldve  bought  the policy. 
So it follows  that Im upholding this complaint.
developments
Mrs and Mr B confirmed  that theyd received my provisional decision but didnt have 
anything to add. 
AE Financial Services also confirmed  receiving my provision. It made a number of points 
which Ive set out below:
 
That the letter from the personal representative  did not confirm that there had been a full 
discussion about PPI  only that it should  be considered. The information provided  by 
the representative was only generic.
That Mrs B did not make her decision to buy the PPI until after shed received the price 
quotations from Business A. On that basis, AE Financial Services did not give advice 
about taking out PPI.
Mrs B might  still have bought the PPI, notwithstanding her medical condition.  She would 
still have been  able to make a successful claim in respect  of redundancy, accident  or 
other medical ailment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
Id like to respond to the points made  by AE Financial Services:
I consider that by confirming that there had been  a discussion with Mrs and Mr B about 
accident, sickness and redundancy  insurance its very likely that this amounted to a 
recommendation that they should  have the cover. And I think this is supported by the 
representative having told us that he usually discussed PPI with clients  before deciding if 
it was suitable  and affordable. 
I therefore still consider its likely that the AE Financial Services sold Mrs B the cover and 
should therefore be held responsible for the sale. 
I agree  that it was still open for Mrs B to choose not to go ahead with the PPI when  she 
received the quotes.  But that would be a decision that would be likely based  on the cost 
of the cover.  The representative from AE Financial Services had already made  the 
recommendation that Mrs B should take out PPI. And given that she still needed to tell 
Ref: DRN35289864the representative if she wanted  to go ahead with cover she, this further suggests that 
the representative had retained  a level of control  over the sale process. So it was still 
open to him at that point  to tell Mrs B that it might be unwise to go ahead with the policy. 
I also remain satisfied that the PPI represented  poor value for Mrs B if she had gone  
ahead and taken  it. Given her condition, there was a likelihood  that any time she took off 
work would  be as a result  of that condition.  So she would have been significantly 
disadvantaged if she tried to claim on the policy. I therefore  consider think  the PPI was 
mis-sold. 
Finally, I would like to reassure AE Financial Services that in reaching  my decision, I have 
given full consideration to all the points they have made throughout the history  of this 
complaint.
what AE Financial  Services should do to put things right
AE Financial Services should put Mrs and Mr B back in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The cover should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
it should:
Pay Mrs and Mr B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs and Mr B made a successful claim under  the policy,  AE Financial Services can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount they are owed.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AE Financial Services to take tax from this interest.  
AE Financial Services must give Mrs and Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax it has 
taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that AE Financial Services  Ltd is 
responsible for the sale of the PPI and that the policy  was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3528986