K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited allowed an incorrect entry  to appear on his credit file. 
And hes unhappy with the way it then handled the matter once he raised  it.
background
Mr M says he was speaking to a mortgage broker about some borrowing, and during a 
check he discovered a County Court Judgment (CCJ) on his credit file.
Mr M contacted Equifax  to let it know he thought this must be an error, and within a few days  
it loaded a notice  of disassociation to remove the CCJ because  it related to a third party.
Equifax also said Mr M would need  to get in touch with the person the CCJ related to, and 
ask for a copy of their birth certificate. It said he could then send the certificate  to the court 
and ask for the judgment to be changed.
Mr M didnt  think  that was right so Equifax referred  to another  response it had provided  to 
him. The other response had confirmed all financial information relating to the third party had 
been removed.  This was sent a little over a week after Mr M had first raised his concerns.
Mr M contacted Equifax  around two months  later to ask for compensation. He then added 
that he felt the matter  shouldve been  handled as a complaint from the start and as such  the 
eight week process for this hadnt been adhered  to.
After further correspondence Equifax provided  Mr M with its final response letter, in which it 
apologised and offered £250 compensation.
Mr M wasnt happy with the amount offered, he said hed be happy to consider the matter  
closed if it was increased to £500. Equifax said its position remained unchanged so Mr M 
brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator here considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded  that £250 was fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. Mr M doesnt agree; he says he believes the CCJ 
may have  led to him receiving unfavourable interest rates  on his borrowing and that he felt 
unable to return to the mortgage  brokers due to the embarrassment caused.
Mr M also says he works in financial services and had to have a stressful  meeting with his 
managers to explain why there  was a CCJ on his credit file. And that overall,  hes been put 
to unnecessary trouble trying to put the matter right and that the whole experience caused 
him undue stress and anxiety. Mr M says he now wants £1,000 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should begin by saying  that I dont believe the facts of this case are in dispute.  Equifax has 
accepted the CCJ was added to Mr Ms credit file in error. It has apologised and has paid 
him compensation of £250 for the initial mistake,  and for the service subsequently provided.
Therefore its for me to consider whether or not the amount offered is fair, and I think it is.
Ref: DRN38955962Ive no doubt that Mr M found the matter  to be embarrassing, stressful  and to have  caused  
him anxiety.  I think theyre natural reactions to finding something serious like he did on his 
credit file. And I agree with him that Equifax was wrong to have suggested he try to contact  
the third party  and the court to rectify  the matter.
But Im also mindful of the fact that Equifax, whilst not initially  dealing  with the matter as a 
complaint, was prompt in its actions  to correct Mr Ms credit  file. Within just a few days  it had 
started the process  to remove the incorrect  information, and it took just over a week  to 
confirm in writing that all financial information  relating  to the third party  had been  removed.
So whilst I understand how the original error and the misleading advice made  Mr M feel, he 
had received the outcome  he wanted   the correction  of his credit  file  in a relatively short  
space of time.
I appreciate Mr Ms concern that credit  applications could have been affected by the CCJ. 
But hes been  unable  to provide any evidence or information about these applications or 
other accounts to show this is the case,  so I think its difficult  to conclude  that hes been 
disadvantaged in this way. And I understand Mr M has opened credit  agreements  in the last 
few years.  So I think its likely the CCJ wouldve come to light earlier if it had been affecting 
Mr M.
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr Ms concerns, I think the £250 paid to him already is fair 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3895596