K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) is charging him at least  £50 to £60 more 
interest than it says on his mobile  app.
background
Mr K says that every month he is being  overcharged  around  £50 interest.  He says he asks 
how much  the interest is going to be but then his mobile app says he has to pay around  £50 
more each month.
NewDay said its charging Mr K the correct  amount  of interest  in line with the terms and 
conditions on his account. And it said his monthly statements give a clear breakdown of 
when his payments  are due and how much interest he has to pay.
The adjudicator didnt think NewDay had done  anything wrong.  He could see it was charging 
Mr K the correct amount of interest in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr K didnt agree with this and still believed he was being charged around £50 more  than he 
should be every month. He says the Financial  Conduct Authority has told him NewDay is 
acting in breach  of high level principles.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K sent us an example of why he thought he was being charged more interest than he 
should be. This was in April this year when  the minimum  payment NewDay requested was 
£183.75 and the amount of interest  it charged was £135.49. 
The minimum monthly payment includes the interest, any default  fees and a percentage of 
the balance. That calculation in included in the terms and conditions. So using Mr Ks 
example the minimum  payment for April 2019  was the interest  of £135.49  plus any default  
fees and a percentage of his balance. Thats why theres a difference  between the figure  for 
interest and the required  minimum  monthly payment. 
So Im satisfied NewDay has calculated  the interest on Mr Ks account  in line with its terms 
and conditions. It isnt overcharging him. And its calculated his minimum monthly payment in 
line with its terms and conditions. In those circumstances  I cant find its done  anything 
wrong.
Ref: DRN39245322my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3924532