K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the late payment  marker  Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading 
as Cashplus) placed on his credit  file. 
background
On 8 October 2018 Mr A received an e-mail from Cashplus asking him to make a payment. 
The e-mail said he should make a payment  immediately to avoid seriously damaging  his 
credit rating. So Mr A made a payment of £50 that day. 
On 1 November  2018 Mr A checked his credit  file. He saw that a late payment had been  
added to his account for October  2018.  So he contacted Cashplus that day to make a 
complaint and to ask it to remove the late payment marker. When he spoke to Cashplus 
Mr A was told he couldnt raise a complaint  and the late payment marker  wasnt going to be 
removed. 
Cashplus sent him a final response letter on 7 November 2018.  It said Mr A failed to make  a 
payment in August and September 2018 so the late payment marker was added  to his 
account in October  fairly. It was up to Mr A to manage his account  and Cashplus is bound to 
report true and accurate account  activity  to credit reference agencies. But it did offer Mr A 
£25 for not setting  up his complaint about the late payment when he called to query this. 
Mr A was unhappy with this response so he brought his complaint to this service.  He said 
Cashplus e-mail said if he made  a payment he would avoid seriously  damaging his credit  
rating. So it should remove the late payment from his credit file. Our investigator reviewed 
the complaint  but decided not to uphold it. She felt Mr A had missed  payments on his 
account so Cashplus  had to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies.
The investigator said Cashplus  was sending the e-mail to try and help Mr A with his 
payments and to stop a potential default. Therefore it hadnt treated him unfairly.  She 
confirmed the late payment  for September would also be accurately reported on Mr As 
credit file. She also felt the £25 offered by Cashplus for not setting up his complaint when he 
called was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr A didnt agree. He felt the e-mail  from Cashplus said his credit  rating  wouldnt be 
seriously damaged  if he made a payment. He also said the e-mail didnt mention anything  
about late payments  or a default  and it failed to take his complaint seriously. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied Cashplus 
has done enough to address Mr As complaint. And Ill explain why below. 
This service can ask Cashplus to amend Mr As credit file if we think the late payment 
marker has been added incorrectly or unfairly. However, Im not satisfied it has. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr As agreement say that in the event the balance  on his 
account becomes  negative  and he doesnt  pay back the money owed when asked, Cashplus 
may provide information about him to the credit reference agencies. 
Ref: DRN38586932Its the responsibility of Mr A to run his account  within the agreed limit. Cashplus has 
provided statements  which show he failed to make a payment in August and September. 
And Im satisfied it sent these to him. Mr A was in a negative balance and his September  
and October payments were due on 6 September  and 6 October respectively. So when he 
received the e-mail on 8 October and made the £50 payment he was already late paying  for 
that month.  Therefore Cashplus is entitled to make the credit  reference agencies aware of 
how the account is being run by Mr A so that the information held by the credit  reference 
agencies is accurate. This includes updating  his credit file with the late payment in 
September 2018. So Im satisfied the late payment  marker  on Mr As credit file was added 
correctly here. 
Mr A is unhappy with the wording on the e-mail he received in October 2018. But the e-mail 
doesnt say his credit rating wouldnt be affected by making a payment. It says he should 
make a payment  to avoid seriously damaging  it. If a payment is late it will likely cause some 
damage to Mr As credit rating. And if he hadnt made a payment in October his credit  rating 
would have been affected more  than it was. When sending an e-mail  reminder  to Mr A this is 
what Cashplus was trying to stop from happening.  Therefore, Im not persuaded it has 
treated him unfairly here. 
I can see Cashplus has offered Mr A £25 for the way it initially  told him he couldnt  complain 
about the late payment marker. I agree  with the investigator that this offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Although this would have been unpleasant for Mr A Im not 
satisfied this would have caused  any significant distress to him. 
I cant say that Cashplus  has done  anything wrong  in applying the late payment fees,  since  
they have acted in line with their terms and conditions. Im not therefore going to ask it to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Advanced  Payment Solutions Limited should pay £25.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3858693