K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about how London General Insurance Company Limited  settled an 
insurance claim she made for a damaged tablet. She says she was expecting  the 
replacement to be on a new for old basis and believes she was mis-sold the warranty. 
background
Mrs S bought a tablet  in February 2014 and alongside she took out an Added Care  policy  to 
provide cover in the event of breakdown or accidental damage. The policy had a three-year 
term initially, but could  be renewed annually after that. 
Mrs S has explained that she initially looked to buy the tablet in a large retailers  shop, at 
which time the member  of staff explained  the Added  Care  policy  to her. She then 
purchased both the tablet and the policy  via the retailers website. The policy terms and 
conditions were available on the retailers website at the time of purchase and a copy was 
sent to Mrs S after the policy  was set up.
When the policy was due for renewal in 2017,  Mrs S has explained she didnt do so on time.  
She says she called the retailer and explained  the situation; it told her to go to the insurers  
website. Mrs S has said that she also checked what  the policy benefits were and was 
assured she would receive a replacement on a new for old basis.  Mrs S also renewed the 
policy in 2018.  When each renewal invitation  was sent by the insurer,  a copy of the policy 
terms and conditions were included.
After renewal in 2018 the tablet was dropped and damaged, so a claim was made. The claim 
was accepted. As the tablet was considered  irreparable London General offered to replace it 
with a refurbished  tablet of the same age. Mrs S was not happy  with having a refurbished 
item and wanted  it replaced with a new one. 
Mrs S complained to both London General and the retailer through whose website she 
bought the tablet and the insurance policy. London  General  declined  the complaint as it was 
entitled to offer a refurbished tablet under the policy terms and conditions. It quoted the 
relevant section of them  as:
If your product is uneconomical to repair,  we will provide you with a replacement of the 
same make and model. Where the same  make and model is not available,  the replacement  
will be of similar specification. And Where a refurbished product is provided in settlement of 
your clam, this is considered a repair and your cover will not end.
I also note that during  a telephone conversation  Mrs S had with London General it recorded  
that she told it that the retailer  had not made her aware of the full terms of cover in 2014. It 
explained that as the plan was sold by the retailer, it was unable  to comment on that aspect 
of the complaint and she should refer it direct to the retailer.
The retailer  pointed out the terms and conditions of the policy were available  on the website 
at the time Mrs S bought  the policy. These detailed Where we replace your Product we may 
use Grade A refurbished (not brand new) products.  It rejected  the complaint as it didnt 
think it had mis-sold the policy to her.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with either response and referred  the complaint to this service. In doing 
so she provided us with a recording  of a telephone conversation she had with a member of 
Ref: DRN30491832the retailers staff in 2019. In the recording she explains that shes interested  in the policy  in 
connection with a tablet, but isnt sure about what would  happen  if the tablet couldnt be 
repaired. She specifically asks whether,  in the event the tablet couldnt be repaired, the 
replacement could be a refurbished model.  She was assured that a replacement would be a 
brand new identical  model. Mrs S says this recording supports her account  of what  she had 
been told at the time before the sale and at the 2017  renewal.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She accepted  that Mrs S had been given 
incorrect information before the policy was arranged. However, the investigator  was satisfied 
that Mrs S was given  the correct information several times thereafter and didnt question  it. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusion. She said she hadnt received any terms 
and conditions for the policy and had been told twice  by the retailer  that she would  receive a 
brand new item if the old one couldnt be repaired. She asked that the complaint be referred  
to an ombudsman if the investigator was not able to change her conclusions.  As the 
investigator was not persuaded  to change her conclusions, the complaint has been referred 
to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly  consider the matter of how Mrs S claim has been settled. The insurance contract 
provides for a repair of the item covered by the contract.  It also allows the insurer to replace 
the item with a reconditioned model  as a form of repair. As such, London General settled 
Mrs S complaint in line with the terms and conditions of the warranty  she purchased. I am 
also satisfied Mrs S was provided with the policy terms  and conditions  both at the time of the 
sale and when she renewed the policy in 2017 and 2018.
I now need to consider  the matter of whether  Mrs S was mis-sold the warranty due to what 
she has reported as being told before she bought it originally  and around  the time of the 
renewal in 2017. I note that both of the conversations  Mrs S has referenced took place with 
members of staff from the retailer, rather than with London General. The same  applies to the 
more recent  call Mrs S made and recorded regarding the benefits of the warranty.
Mrs S had access to details about  the policy before she bought  it and again immediately 
afterwards. However, she has told us that rather than rely on the documentation about  the 
policy she relied on oral representations from members of the retailers  staff. 
When considering  a complaint I can only comment on issues  that the business the complaint 
is set up against  is responsible for. In this case London General was responsible for 
ensuring Mrs S had details of the policy she took out with it and I am satisfied it fulfilled that 
responsibility. However, any complaint about the actions of members of staff at the retailer 
would appear  to be the responsibility of the retailer. I note that Mrs S has referred  her 
complaint to the retailer and it has responded. As such, I am unable  to comment on the 
conversations Mrs S has reported having  or the one she did have after the claim was made 
because London  General  is not responsible for what was said.
Ref: DRN30491833my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
12 June 2020..
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3049183