K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny (Sunny)  irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr W between February 
2015 and August 2015. Mr Ws borrowing  history  based on what  Sunny provided  is as 
follows:
Loan Date Taken Date
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest combined 
monthly repayment
1 07/02/2015 09/07/2015 6 £200.00 £58.77
2 12/06/2015 20/07/2015 6 £100.00 £92.13
3 07/07/2015 15/02/2016* 6 £800.00 £270.57
4 30/07/2015 15/02/2016* 6 £300.00 £331.05
5 25/08/2015 15/02/2016* 6 £100.00 £364.40
*loans sold to third party on this date
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint in part and thought the loans 4 and 5 should  not 
have been given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN36204732There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W hasnt disagreed with our adjudicators opinion on loans 1 to 3 so I wont  be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr Ws other  lending. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 4 and 5 would most likely have 
shown that Mr W was having trouble in managing his money. I think  that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to make  his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 4. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr W had taken out loans in quick  succession  and some  of 
them were  even provided when Mr W already had an outstanding balance on an existing 
loan. Im not persuaded that the loan repayments being less than a certain percentage of   
Mr Ws income or the fact that Mr W didnt say that he was having financial difficulty means 
that these loans were  sustainable.
Sunny continued  lending  to Mr W even when  this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr W had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr W loans 4 and 5.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny  should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back  then Sunny 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
Ref: DRN36204733A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest,  fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance,  not including 
anything Sunny has already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr W which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr W as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments  
then Sunny should refund these  overpayments with 8% simple  interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Sunny should  then refund  the amounts calculated in A and B and 
move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining  on outstanding loans [and any principal written-off 
under a redress scheme]. If this results  in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to      
Mr W. However if there is still an outstanding  balance then Sunny should try to agree an
affordable repayment  plan with Mr W.
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded  on Mr Ws credit
file in relation  to loans 4 and 5. If Sunny  has sold any of the loans Sunny should ask the 
debt purchaser  to do the same. Sunny does not have to remove any outstanding loans from
Mr Ws credit file until these have  been  repaid, but Sunny  should  still remove  any adverse 
information recorded about these  loans.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3620473