K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about his trading account  with IG Index Limited (IG). In the main, he says 
IG  and other firms with which he held trading accounts  engaged in manipulating the 
markets against  him. He says he incurred a financial loss as a result.  He considers  he was 
defrauded and he seeks  compensation for his loss. Mr C also asserts that he was not 
properly informed of the nature and risks of trading.
background
IG disputes the complaint. In its response  to Mr C it refuted the allegation of market 
manipulation and explained  as follows:
It operates a hedged approach for its customers trades, whereby its customers 
positions are netted off against  each other  with any residual exposure being  traded 
in the market  so Mr Cs losses did not amount to its profit. Its revenue comes from 
the spreads and trading commissions.
Within Mr Cs spread betting  account  the products  he traded included indices, forex, 
gold and cryptocurrencies. Its prices for spot gold and forex were derived from major 
banks around the world, around  which it wrapped its spread (and incorporated 
commission charges). Its prices  for cryptocurrencies were similarly defined, based on 
third party  cryptocurrency exchanges.  Its prices for indices were based  on the 
relevant futures  market, with a spread (and commission) wrapper. None of these 
prices were  manipulated  by IG and none of them could be manipulated by IG.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He noted submissions that Mr C had made  about wider market  malpractices but said 
they are matters of regulation which go beyond our remit. He referred  to evidence about the 
account opening process which led him to conclude that IG was not wrong  to have opened  
the account for Mr C and that Mr C was informed about the risks of trading.  Mr C disagreed 
with this outcome  and maintained his allegations  and claim for compensation.  The matter 
was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Cs submissions  about  wider market malpractices.  My remit does not extend to 
addressing such  matters so I have  not done  so. They appear to be regulation  related issues  
and this service is not the financial services regulator. My remit is to address Mr Cs specific  
complaint and the issues within it. I do so as follows:
Appropriateness of Mr Cs trading account
This matter is implicit within Mr Cs complaint,  given  what appears to be his overall  assertion 
that the account  and the trading  within it  was inappropriate for him. Appropriateness is 
assessed on the basis of information  from a client to a firm about whether the client has 
sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the risks involved in the service  or 
product(s) offered  by the firm. 
Ref: DRN39902122Available evidence  shows that, in the process  for opening Mr Cs account  an 
appropriateness assessment was conducted  and IG relied on information  from him  
which confirmed his familiarity with over-the-counter derivatives trading. The information 
said he engaged  in such trading frequently and that he agreed (ticked) the Risk Disclosure 
Notice in the account opening  process.  In his submissions to this service Mr C referred  to 
having a total of over 15 years trading experience. Overall and on balance,  I do not 
consider that IG was wrong to accept his application  for the account.
Risk Warnings
The introduction of the Risk Disclosure Notice ended with a paragraph   in bold  which 
emphasised the need for customers  to be aware of the risks associated with their trading, to 
ensure they had the financial resources to bear such risks and to ensure that they monitored 
their positions carefully. The document then proceeded to confirm the execution only nature 
of the account   devoid of advice  and to summarise general risks. It then proceeded to 
give information about the nature of specific traded  products and the level of risks associated  
with each. In terms of spread betting  and Contracts for Differences summaries of their nature 
were given and they were  both defined as being high risk products where customers  can 
lose more money than their initial deposits.  
The Risk Disclosure Notice was presented  in plain English and was not unduly lengthy.       
Mr Cs account was based on an execution only service and IG held no responsibility for 
advising on his trading, monitoring his trading (or account) or managing  his trading (or 
account). He had sole responsibility in these respects, including responsibility  for awareness 
and management  of his exposure  to risks. The Risk Disclosure Notice emphasised  the 
importance of him monitoring this. 
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that Mr C was adequately warned about high trading risks 
at the outset. Thereafter, IG was not obliged to provide risk management for his individual  
trades and/or account.
Fraud and Market Manipulation
I understand the strength  of feeling  with which Mr C has made these allegations, but the 
balance of evidence  does not support either of them  as far as they relate  to IG. I have  not 
seen evidence of Mr Cs money being  unlawfully misappropriated  and I am not persuaded by 
the argument that his losses were caused by misguidance about the risks of such  losses.  
I note the debate between  the parties about  how much was deposited  into and lost from     
Mr Cs account. Mr C has also suggested  that evidence has been tampered  with in this 
respect. This service  was provided with an account statement that shows what  appears to 
be complete account  activity information  (including  deposits, withdrawals, trades, profits  and 
losses). I have  not seen  evidence to cast doubt over its contents or to say they have been  
tampered with. On balance, I consider the statement  to be a reliable  confirmation  of the 
account activity  and I do not consider  there is evidence of unlawful misappropriation within it.
As I have addressed  above, the risks of the losses Mr C incurred were adequately declared 
to him at the outset, so they were not concealed  from him and he does not appear to have 
been misguided in this respect. In addition,  I have not seen evidence  that there was market  
manipulation by IG in his case.
Ref: DRN39902123my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 November 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3990212