K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. lost original documents shed sent it to support claims made  under her
travel insurance policy  which also included legal expenses insurance (LEI).
All references to Mapfre include  its claims handlers  and policy administrator.
background
In 2018, Mrs W had an accident whilst abroad and suffered injuries. She submitted a claim
under her insurance  policy  to cover her medical expenses and a claim to cover the cost of
taking legal action,  for personal injury, against  the hotel she was staying at where the injury
occurred. Mrs W submitted  original documentary evidence in support of her claim.
In or around July 2018, Mrs Ws claim for medical  expenses was paid. But she was told in
early September 2018 that the claim shed made under the LEI policy was declined.  Thats
because the personal injury  claim was against  the hotel resort  the accommodation
provider  so it wasnt covered.  Mrs W asked for her original documents  to be returned. This
request was acknowledged by Mapfre, who said the documents would be returned within  10
working days.
Mrs W didnt receive  her original documents back - only copies. Mapfre told her in
November 2018  that the originals had now been destroyed.  Mapfre  apologised and said it
would either  certify the documents shed sent it, in support of her claim, to be true copies of
the originals  or would  reimburse her for the costs of getting documents  reissued  to her.
Mrs W doesnt think thats fair so complained to us. 
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Ws complaint. He said Mapfre  should pay her £350 for the 
trouble and upset  it had caused her. He also said Mapfre should  pay for a legal opinion to 
advise on whether, if the original documents had still been  available, Mrs W would have 
reasonable prospects of succeeding in her personal injury claim.  And if so, he said Mapfre  
should pay the claim.
Mrs W accepted this outcome but Mapfre didnt. It says it was prepared  to pay Mrs W £150
as compensation  for trouble and upset. But as the claim isnt one thats covered under the
policy, it says it isnt fair for us to ask it to pay Mrs Ws claim or ask it to obtain a legal
opinion. Further, it says Mrs W hasnt complained about Mapfre turning down her claim and
if thats something she wanted  to pursue the appropriate course  of action is for her to raise a
complaint with Mapfre, in the first instance.
The complaint was passed  to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 June 2019 explaining why I was intending  to uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint  but asking Mapfre to do something different than recommended  by our 
investigator. I explained why I was planning to ask Mapfre to pay Mrs W £350 in 
compensation and to certify copies of documents she has sent it to support her claim as true 
copies of the originals.  However, I didnt think it had to do anything more  than that. I agree 
that if Mrs W is unhappy about Mapfre turning down her claim the appropriate  course of 
action is to raise that complaint with Mapfre,  in the first instance.
Mapfre didnt agree with what  I was planning  to find; it said the original documents were  sent 
back to Mrs W on 7 September 2018  and mustve been lost in the post.  Mapfre  says its 
Ref: DRN36779632unfair to hold it responsible for that, and the offer of £150 compensation its now made  to 
Mrs W is reasonable in the circumstances.  Mrs W responded accepting  my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. Ill explain 
why.
Looking at the correspondence between  Mapfre  and Mrs W, I accept she requested her
original documents  back on 7 September 2018.  Mapfre has said the originals were sent to 
her on the same date and if she didnt receive them, they mustve been  lost in the post. Its 
also said the original  documents hadnt  been  destroyed. But I dont  think thats right.  
Mapfre has said in its final response  letter dated  22 November 2018, responding to Mrs Ws 
complaint about  the loss of her original documents, that: 
Having fully reviewed your file the records show the return of the original documents 
were emailed to you, and we also returned  the case documents but these were the 
copies of the original  documents.  All documents are destroyed after 3 months  from 
receipt, so unfortunately the original  documents are no longer available.
Mrs W asked  Mapfre to return her original  documents within three  months of it receiving
them. So those documents shouldve been returned  to her, and not destroyed.  And although
documents mightve been emailed to her and sent by post, these were copies.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mapfre has said its re-reviewed all the evidence and 
maintains Mrs Ws documents were  returned  on 7 September 2018. It points to a letter  of the 
same date enclosing  the documents. But I dont  know  if that letter was sent then  or at all. 
Particularly as Mapfre has given us a file note dated  7 November 2018 which  is inconsistent  
with that and reads: the requested original  documents have been sent back  to the customer  
on 18.09.18.
Further, I havent seen  any internal  screenshots  showing  that a letter  was sent to Mrs W on 
either 7 or 18 September 2018. The screenshots only show that:
-a task was generated to return the case documents on 7 September  2018;
-Mrs Ws documents were sent to a printer around that time; and
-something was posted on 24 September 2018.  
Thats consistent with Mrs W receiving documents  on 26 September  2018  which  she says 
were copies. Shes consistently said that she received copies on that date and immediately 
informed Mapfre of that at the time.  So I accept  what she says about that.
Mapfre has been very inconsistent when explaining  what it thinks  happened.  And because I 
havent seen screenshots  of anything else being posted to Mrs W before 
24 September 2018 (despite requesting this) I think its unlikely that the original documents 
were sent to Mrs W before this date (and got lost in the post)  as suggested by Mapfre.  
When making this finding Ive taken into account what it says about a post  ID only being  
confirmed on its system when original documents are sent out. But I dont think thats  
Ref: DRN36779633enough to explain  why theres  no other system record of the original documents being sent 
earlier in September  2018. For the reasons Ive explained above, it looks like only one letter  
was sent out enclosing  documents  that month. 
Mrs W contacted  Mapfre  a number of times between September 2018 and November 2018
asking about the return of her original documents, and on a number of occasions  she had to
chase because she didnt  receive a reasonably prompt reply.
Mapfre also maintained  in early November 2018  that the originals had been sent to her in
September 2018, when Mrs W had already  told Mapfre that this wasnt the case. I can see
from Mrs Ws response to Mapfre that she was very frustrated by Mapfres position, and
given how long she had been waiting for an explanation of where the original  documents
were and the increasing correspondence on that issue, I can understand why.
All in all, Im satisfied  Mapfre shouldve told Mrs W much earlier  than it did that in all 
likelihood the originals had been destroyed  as it accepted in its final response letter. 
Although this wouldve still been  stressful for Mrs W to hear,  it wouldve prevented her from 
having to unnecessarily  chase Mapfre and wouldve spared her the continuing frustration  of 
having to explain  that the documents  sent to her in September 2018 werent the original  
documents.
putting things right
Within 21 days from the date we inform Mapfre that Mrs W has accepted  my final decision,
I direct  it to:
A.pay Mrs W £350 for distress and inconvenience.  I think that sum fairly reflects  the 
trouble, frustration and upset  she went  through during the period September  to 
November 2018 - as well as the distress I accept she experienced by discovering 
that her original documents had been  destroyed.
B.send Mrs W certified  copies of the original  documents she had sent it in support
of her claim  under the policy, but which  have  now been destroyed.  And as stated 
in its final response,  each  page should be certified to be a true copy of the
original by a senior  member of the management  team.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint  agasint Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A. I direct it to put things  right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3677963