K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that SD Taylor Limited,  trading as loansathome4u,  lent to her irresponsibly 
in 2008. They were three home-collected credit loans. Mrs C raised her complaint with 
SD Taylor  in March 2017. 
background
Using the information I have received from SD Taylor and Mrs C I have  done  a brief 
summary loan table. 
Loan amount Date approved Date repaid Weekly terms
1£200
Total due £32030 April 2008 24 November 2008 32 x £10
2£250 
Total due £41023 July 2008Due 6 May 2009
Settled 5 August 
201541 x £10
3£300
Total due £48026 November 
2008Due 8 July 2009
Balance w/o 
December 201631 x £15
I have issued two provisional decisions and the recent one had a reply date of 
30 January 2020.  Mrs C has written to say she is content with it. SD Taylor  has accepted the 
outcome for this case  but reluctantly as it has made it clear it does not agree  with my 
rationale. We approach  all cases individually. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
As both parties have  accepted the provisional  decision for Mrs C then I have no reason to 
depart from the findings I made  in my provisional decision dated  16 January 2020. A copy  of 
it is attached and forms part of this final decision.  
putting things right  what SD Taylor needs  to do
SD Taylor  ought not to have given  Mrs C Loans  1 to 3. 
A)It should add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mrs C towards interest, fees 
and charges on these  loans.  Mrs Cs total repayments exceed the principal sums lent.
B) It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs C which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs C originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) It may use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which  it has written-off.
D) It should  pay any remaining refund to Mrs C. If there is no refund left and still a
Ref: DRN30370692balance outstanding made  up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for you to pursue 
this further.
Ordinarily I would direct that SD Taylor remove any negative payment  information about 
Loans 1 to 3 from Mrs Cs credit file. But as they were over six years ago they are not likely 
to appear on her credit file anyway and so I do not think that this is necessary. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires SD Taylor  to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mrs C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. Any set-off has to be done after tax. 
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that I uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and direct that S.D. Taylor Limited put 
things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30370693my provisional  decision dated 16 January 2020 
Mrs C has said that the lending was irresponsible and pushed me further into debt by [sic] doorstep 
lender. 
Mrs C has said that at the time of the first loan the collector-agent looked at her passport and payslip 
and after that no further requests for documentation were made.  Mrs C says that her credit  file would 
have shown mortgage arrears and defaults.  
SD Taylor  has said that it would have asked Mrs C for evidence of her income  and her expenditure  
and it would have carried out a credit  search. But no records  have been provided to us relating to that 
search. SD Taylor has said that no adverse data to warrant declining [Mrs C] for a loan was found.  
Very few documents from 2008 are available but SD Taylors Agreement History Reports  have been 
sent to us. 
SD Taylors  response dated  31 March  2017 to Mrs Cs complaint was that Our financial conduct  
authority requirements are that we assess each loan that is issued and complete a credit reference 
check. We have concluded that there is no substantiated evidence to support your complaint in light 
of the available  evidence.  Therefore, as a company,  we have decided not to uphold  your complaint.
In July 2017  one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint using the information he had been sent 
by both parties. Mrs C had sent us bank statements for the period  covering December  2007 to 
January 2010. Our adjudicator thought  that Mrs C was not able to afford  these loans and that SD 
Taylor should put things right for Mrs C for all three loans. 
Mrs C agreed with this opinion. 
SD Taylor  did not. It made a number of representations to explain why it did not agree. It said at 
the outset of our relationship with a customer Loans at Home conduct  a credit search, at this point we 
found no adverse data to warrant declining [Mrs C] for a loan.  The initial loan and every loan 
thereafter is also supported  with an Affordability Assessment to ensure  the loan is issued responsibly 
and in accordance with regulatory guidelines.
Our adjudicator responded.  SD Taylor continued  to disagree and requested an ombudsman review  
the case  in relation  to the merits of the complaint.   
Later in August 2019 an adjudicator looked  at the complaint and came to the same view: that SD 
Taylor should put things right for Mrs C for all three loans. SD Taylors response was detailed,  and 
many representations were  made  to this service on a number of issues  including the merits  of the 
case. I do not set them all out here, but I mention  it so that SD Taylor knows I have considered them 
all. 
When I received  the complaint, I asked  Mrs C to provide  more details  and documents which she did, 
and I go into more  detail in my provisional findings below using the information  from these. Some  of 
the figures used in the adjudicators  August  2019 view letter  were incorrect and part of the reason for 
this provisional  decision is to correct them.   
The case remained unresolved and was passed  to me for a decision.   
I issued a provisional decision last month and am issuing a further provisional decision in response to 
some points raised with me by SD Taylor  and to elucidate further. The outcome of my second 
provisional decision  remains the same as my first. 
Ref: DRN30370694my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general  approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant  rules, guidance  and good industry 
practice - on our website. 
SD Taylors  own explanations about how this sector approached its lending is useful and I set it out 
here as I have kept this in mind when considering  Mrs Cs complaint. CRA  refers to credit reference 
agencies which SD Taylor  has told us it used when assessing an applicants  request for a loan.  
The Home credit  sector has always  adopted  a different approach, eschewing  penalties. They relied 
on self-employed agents to visit the customers  in their homes to conduct  an affordability assessment  
with applicants taking  into account CRA data customer information and thereafter customer  
repayment history. They also maintained regular weekly contact with the customers  to anticipate 
problems. They flexed payments and allowed customers to miss payments without penalty. They 
placed the onus on the agent to get the lending  decision  right through  first-hand knowledge  of the 
customers circumstances. The impetus for the agent was the fact they earned commission on 
collections. In fact their only income was derived from such collections.
These loans  date back to April 2008 and at that time these  type of businesses were licensed by the 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT).  Section 25 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 (as amended) (the CCA) 
required the OFT to ensure  that consumer credit  licences were only given to  and retained by  
those who were fit to hold them. 
Section 25(2)  of the CCA contained specific matters which (alongside any matters it considered to be 
relevant) the OFT should  have regard to when  determining whether  an applicant  for a licence  was a fit 
person to hold one. One of which, section 25(2)(d)  said evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection 
(2A). 
Subsection 2A(e) listed
engaged in business  practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or oppressive  or otherwise  unfair  
or improper (whether unlawful  or not).
Subsection 2B went on to provide an example of the type of business practice  referred to in 
subsection 2A(e). It said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending.   
     
In January 2008 the OFT produced general guidance on fitness and requirements.  The documents 
reference is OFT969.  
This addressed the scrutiny  the OFT was likely  to carry out on businesses  activities and refers to one 
of the OFTs main  regulatory interests which  was to ensure that businesses lend responsibly. It says 
in paragraph 2.13:  Irresponsible lending is now cited  specifically  in the fitness test as a business  
practice that [it] may consider deceitful or oppressive  or unfair or improper . The significance being 
that such a practice  may impinge on a business ability to successfully apply for a consumer  credit 
licence if the OFT found evidence  of such  practices.
And para 2.14 of the OFT969 document contained interim  guidance on the test for irresponsible 
lending ahead  of a public consultation  on full guidance on this test. It says : lenders should always 
take reasonable  care in making  loansThey should undertake proper and appropriate checks  on the 
potential borrowers creditworthiness and ability  to repay the loanThe checks  should  be 
proportionate, taking account of the type of agreement,  the amounts involved,  the nature  of the 
lenders relationship with the consumer, and the degree of risk to the consumer.
Ref: DRN30370695The OFT Guide to Irresponsible Lending (ILG) was published after these  loans to Mrs C were 
approved and the foundation for it was recognised  and referred to in OFT969.  In addition,  I note that 
SD Taylors  July/August 2017 response to the first adjudicators letter  cites the ILG and addresses the 
irresponsible lending element. So, it seems  to have accepted  that the concept  was relevant to Mrs 
Cs complaint and addressed it accordingly. 
One set of representations sets out SD Taylors  conclusion:  Loans  at Home have  always and 
continue to uphold guidelines of both the FCA and previously the OFT to ensure that we lend 
responsibly and treat customers fairly  in all cases.
In addition to taking into account the OFT969 document, the Lending Code 2006 (the Code) was 
published by a trade  body which I have  used to give me further insight into the approach lenders were  
expected to take around that time. Whether or not SD Taylor was a member of that trade body in 
2008 is somewhat irrelevant: I am able to think about these sort of publications  as being an indication 
of market practice at the time. 
The Code does cover  personal loans  and it refers to some key commitments.  Some of these  were to:
act fairly,  reasonably and responsibly 
help you when you need information and guidance, including explaining how
the products  will affect  your finances
consider cases of financial difficulty sympathetically  and positively.
I have carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
SD Taylor  has said that it would have carried out checks in 2008 but has not been able to send us 
many documents. Given  the length  of time thats passed since these loans were provided, I dont 
think thats unreasonable and Ive not drawn any adverse inferences from this. So, I have looked at 
what Mrs C has sent us which includes  additional documents and some clarification more recently. 
The bank statements  provide a convenient way to obtain quite a lot of information  about  a persons 
finances from one source. It is not the only way to discover this information  and I accept  that SD 
Taylor may not have seen these at the time but it is what  I have from Mrs C and  I think  that it makes 
sense for me to look at these as they provide some insight on Mrs Cs financial circumstances at the 
time. 
The bank account statements show that her income  was regularly from one organisation and she 
received between £580  and £630 each month from January to March 2008. So, I have taken  her 
average net earnings as £600. This was the period leading up to the first loan in April 2008. In my 
view, this was a low income. 
Mrs C has sent to us documents to show me that Mr and Mrs C had a joint mortgage and they were in 
arrears to about £1,570 in April 2008. The usual monthly repayment was about £583 a month plus 
they had the arrears to pay on top. In September 2008 (this would  translate to have been during 
Loans 1 and 2 and before  Loan 3 was approved) the mortgage company  repossession hearing was 
due to take place. This was an adjourned  County Court Hearing date which likely  means  that 
proceedings had commenced well before that and so the arrears had likely been mounting for some 
time. So, I think its more likely than not Mrs C was in arrears on the mortgage around the time she 
applied for Loan 1. 
Mrs C has shown that she had a hire purchase agreement which  had commenced  in August 2007 
which was meant to be £175  each month for 36 months.  The statement  for that account shows that 
Mrs C had some  difficulty  paying  it around February 2008  which  was just before she applied for 
Loan 1.  
Ref: DRN30370696Mr and Mrs Cs joint council tax bill for June 2008 which has been sent to us, shows that court  
proceedings were underway for some of the amount  due. 
SD Taylor  has been  insistent in its argument that it carried out credit searches  as part of the 
application process  for Loan 1. As Ive explained, the length of time thats passed means that I dont 
consider it unreasonable that SD Taylor  is no longer able to evidence  the results of its credit check. 
But given the nature  of the commitments concerned, I think that any credit check would more  likely  
than not have  shown some  or all of these commitments and arrears  and that Mrs C was already 
struggling with her finances. 
I think  this ought to have prompted additional  checks for a person on such a low income and with 
these additional debt concerns, which  I do not think it carried  out. And I say this against the 
background outlined by SD Taylor of how it liked to conduct its business. One aspect was described 
as regular  weekly contact  with the customers to anticipate problems and this suggested that the 
close and face-to-face contact its collectors  had with its customers meant that it knew those 
customers well and may have been able to mitigate issues. And I translate that to include that any 
initial assessment at the start of a lending relationship would have been equally focussed on the 
personal contact. 
The bank statements  also give me an idea of the household expenses  to which Mrs C would have 
contributed. Mr C earned more than her and so Ive looked  at these  expenses and kept in mind that 
Mrs C was likely to have contributed in proportion to their incomes. Mrs Cs proportionate contribution 
was likely  to have  been  about  40%. 
Seeing Mrs Cs low income plus the household  expenses to which  she likely would have contributed 
around 40% and I have  calculated that her proportion would have used up all of her salary. This, 
together with the specific items Ive outlined above which  Mrs C, or she and her husband, were  
struggling to pay, then I think  that a reasonable  approach would have been not to lend to Mrs C in 
April 2008. Adding to Mrs Cs debt problems was not, in my view, the right thing to have done.  I have 
kept in mind that it was a modest repayment sum of £10 a week,  but I do not think  it was a 
manageable sum to Mrs C at that time.  I do not think that she could have afforded to repay  without  
experiencing difficulty  in doing so. 
For Loan  2, Mrs C already  had a loan with SD Taylor and the records I have from it, show that Mrs C 
was in arrears  in June 2008. And her repayments on Loan 1 had been variable and intermittent 
between 30 June 2008 and late November 2008. The note on the Agreement History Report in 
November 2008 says Reloan Cash £70 which seems to be a refinance of the outstanding balance 
into Loan 3 (which  I refer to below).  
The same  points I have made earlier in this provisional decision for Loan 1, I make again in respect of 
Loan 2. The two sets of loan repayments together would have  been the monthly  equivalent of about 
£87 and this was just under 15% of Mrs Cs net monthly income. So, I do not think  that this was a 
reasonable sum to expect  her to pay. Looking  at her situation, I do not think that this was an 
affordable loan. 
Added to this, the third loan appears to have been taken out on the day that Loan 1 was repaid, and I 
think its highly likely that this loan was refinanced into the new Loan 3. I think that SD Taylor  knew,  or 
ought reasonably to have known, about the repayment difficulty for Loan 1, and that Loan 2 was 
outstanding and so it ought to have realised  that Mrs C was not going to be able to afford Loan 3. 
I am planning  to uphold each of the loans  but for different  reasons to the ones outlined in earlier  
adjudications.
end of this extract  of the provisional decision
Ref: DRN3037069