K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) misled him into 
thinking he could  buy the car he was hiring  under  a hire agreement at the end of the 
agreements term. He says that had he not believed this he wouldnt have extended the 
lease for an extra year at a higher  cost.
Background
Mr A entered into a two year hire agreement with MBFS for a car in March 2016.  He says 
that at the end of the two years he wanted  to buy the car. He contacted MBFS and was 
referred to a third party for valuation quotes. He decided not to buy the car at that time and 
MBFS allowed him to extend the lease for a year. Mr A says that the monthly rentals for the 
third year were much higher than the monthly  rentals under  the original agreement  but he 
agreed to this on the understanding  he would be able to buy the car at the end.
Mr A says at the end of the third year he was told he couldnt acquire the car and that this 
was never  a possibility  under his agreement. Mr As hire agreement ended and the car was 
collected. Mr A says he was misled  into thinking  he could acquire the car at the end of the 
lease term and that he wouldnt have extended  the lease had he known this wouldnt be an 
option. Mr A says MBFS offered to pay him £250 for the misinformation but he didnt think 
this was sufficient  and instead wanted the third year of rentals refunded.
MBFS says that Mr A called in April 2018  to ask about acquiring the car and during this call 
he was told this wasnt an option but that he could sell the car to an unconnected third party.  
It says this information was incorrect as selling the car wasnt  an option under his hire 
agreement. It says that Mr A then called back a few days later to say he wished to extend 
the lease and so no further discussion about  purchasing the car took place.
In February 2019,  Mr A contacted  MBFS asking for a settlement figure which  was provided. 
He then called in March 2019 to discuss settlement and was told that the quotes  had been 
sent in error and that he didnt have  the option to buy the car. 
MBFS says that Mr A was provided  with incorrect information on two calls for which  it 
apologised. It says that under Mr As hire agreement the car couldnt be bought  or sold and 
that this was highlighted to Mr A at the time he entered into the agreement. It offered Mr A 
£250 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience  he had been caused.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that although Mr A had been given 
incorrect information about buying  the car at the end of the two year lease term he wasnt  
told that he would be able to buy it after the extended lease term. She said Mr A had the 
benefit of the car for the additional  year and she couldnt say for sure that he wouldnt have 
extended the lease had he known  buying the car at the end wasnt  an option. Because  of 
this she didnt think it fair to ask MBFS to compensate Mr A for the cost of the lease 
extension and she thought the £250  offered by MBFS was reasonable. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He said that our investigators  understanding  of 
how the interest was spread over an agreement was incorrect. He said he suffered a 
financial loss by extending the lease  due to the higher payments. He said on the call he 
asked about a new contract  for a new car and that he wouldnt have taken the lease 
extension at the higher cost had he not thought he could buy the car at the end. He 
Ref: DRN38019772reiterated that MBFS failed to tell him he wouldnt be able to buy the car at the end of the 
agreement term. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A entered into a hire agreement for a car in March 2016.  A hire agreement  doesnt 
transfer ownership but allows the hirer use of the car for a certain period of time. In this case 
the hire agreement was originally for two years.
I have looked  through  the terms  of the hire agreement and it sets out that the car has to be 
kept in the hirers possession and that it cannot  be sold or disposed of and that no third party  
can be given rights over the car. The terms then say what  is to happen at the end of the hire 
agreement regarding the return of the car. Given this I find it reasonable to accept that at the 
inception of the hire agreement, Mr A was reasonably aware that the car would need to be 
returned at the end of the agreement.
When Mr As agreement  was near its full term, he contacted MBFS to ask about his options. 
He had been provided a quote for an extension of the lease  period  but this had higher 
monthly payments  than his original lease. Mr A asked if he could buy the car and was told he 
couldnt but that an unconnected third party could buy the car and then they could, by private  
agreement with Mr A, transfer  the car to Mr A. A price was given to Mr A of just over £20,000 
and he was told this payment  would need to be made  in a single instalment by bank  transfer. 
Mr A then asks if the lease could be extended at the same monthly rentals as his original 
lease and is told this cant happen. Mr A ends  the call saying  he will consider taking out a 
new agreement and returning the car.
Given the information provided on this call, I accept that Mr A thought there was an option at 
the end of the lease to acquire the car through a third party arrangement.  MBFS has said 
this information  was incorrect. 
Mr A says that he only extended  the lease because he thought it would be possible to 
acquire the car at the end of the lease extension. I have listened  to the call on which  Mr A 
confirms he has sent an email accepting the terms of the extension  and that he is happy to 
go ahead. There  is no discussion on this call about  what his options  would be at the end of 
the lease extension. 
Mr A then contacted MBFS  in February  2019  to ask for a settlement quote which was 
provided. He then called in March  2019  to discuss the settlement and was told he couldnt  
acquire the car.
I can understand that Mr A was upset that he wasnt able to acquire the car. He had been 
led to believe this would be possible  both before he extended the lease and in February 
2019. However as this isnt an option under Mr As agreement I cannot say that MBFS did 
anything wrong  by not allowing the acquisition to go ahead.
MBFS made a mistake by telling  Mr A that there  was a way through  which the car could be 
acquired. Given this it is reasonable that Mr A is put back in the position he would have been 
had the mistake not been made. In this case, having  listened  to the calls, Mr A did end the 
call in 2018 saying  that he would be considering a new agreement.  He then changed his 
Ref: DRN38019773mind and accepted  the terms of the lease extension. I cannot say that the reason he chose 
to extend the lease  was because he believed he would be able to acquire the car after the 
extension. I note Mr As comments about being  better off with a new agreement than paying 
the higher cost of the lease extension but as I cannot say for sure what he would have done 
had the correct information  been  provided I do not find I can say he should have his 
payments refunded.
Mr A was given the information about  the lease extension terms and he decided to go ahead 
with this. He had use of the car for the additional  year and while  I note his comments about 
his use of the car given he chose to extend the lease and the car was available for him I find 
it reasonable that he remains liable for the payments he made during this period.
Mr A was caused inconvenience and upset by the incorrect information being  given to him 
and I agree he should be compensated for this. MBFS offered to pay him £250 for the upset 
he was cased and has confirmed this offer is still available. I find this reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should, as it has 
offered, pay Mr A £250  compensation  for the upset caused by providing him incorrect  
information about his options at the end of his hire agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3801977