K822xcomplaint
Mrs W has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund  her £12,225 she lost after falling
victim to fraud.
background 
I issued a provisional decision  which is attached to and forms part of this final decision, in 
March 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint in part. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs W has nothing  further to add and Lloyds have agreed with the settlement proposed in 
my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  I remain of the view that this decision should be partially 
upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is I partially uphold Mrs Ws complaint 
against Lloyds  Bank  Plc.
I require Lloyds Bank Plc to:
-refund  Mrs W the £9,225 she lost through her second transaction
-pay 8% interest on this from the time of the transaction, up until the time of settlement
-pay Mrs W £300 for trouble and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34253312provisional decision (copy)
complaint
Mrs W has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund her £12,225 she lost after falling victim to 
fraud.
background
In September 2014 Mrs W was the victim of fraud.
Based on the submissions made by both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows:
First payment to fraudster for £3,000
Mrs W received  a cold call from an investment company called Select Securities, unbeknown to Mrs 
W at the time this call was actually from a fraudster. The fraudster asked Mrs W if she had ever 
considered investing in shares  he told Mrs W that his company had purchased a lot of shares in a 
Chinese company (that is one of the biggest online commerce companies in the world) ahead  of them  
being floated on the stock market.
The fraudster told Mrs W that she could buy some shares and as soon as they went on the market, he 
would sell them for her. While, given  the passage of time, her memory is not entirely clear, Mrs W 
recalls being told that she could buy the shares for $50, but when  they opened  on the market  they 
would go for something  like $63. The fraudster  told Mrs W the shares  would  be sold instantly,  and Mrs 
W would recoup her money.
Mrs W told the fraudster  she could  speak to him later about this, once she discussed  the opportunity  
with her husband.  The fraudster agreed to this and in the meantime Mrs W made  her own 
investigations into Select  Securities. Mrs W has told us that, from what she and her husband  saw 
online, it looked like a really good company. Mrs W also says that she looked into the company  whose 
shares she was being offered and she could see the shares were about to go on the stock market.
Mrs W has told us that she spoke to the fraudster  again  and she was told that she would be sent 
some paperwork. Mrs W said the paperwork she received was very involved, which also made her 
and her husband think  that it was legitimate. They  also thought  it was legitimate  as the paperwork 
mentioned having to pay tax, as the trade had to go through America. 
However, Mr and Mrs W have told us they didnt have the funds  to invest. At the time she was retired 
and while her husband was still working,  he was limited  to what he could do due to problems  with his 
back. Mrs W says while she was struggling at the time, the fraudster had told her it was 100% certain  
that she would make money, so she was tempted to invest.  
Thinking things were  legitimate and perfectly fine, Mrs W decided to invest  £3000. In order to be able 
to do so she transferred money from a credit card with a different bank into her Lloyds current  
account, set up a new payee  and transferred the money  to a bank account in Hong Kong.
Second payment  to fraudster for £9,225
Having made  the first payment, the fraudster then sent Mrs W a chart which showed her how many 
shares she would get and how much  money she would make if she invested more money, in the 
same stock. Ive not seen this chart, but Mrs W recalls being told that if she invested  £9,000,  she 
would get around £26,000  in return. 
Ref: DRN34253313Mrs W has said the fraudster  told her Select Securities had bought a large number of shares  a year 
ago, in the same stock, for another client and the client now could not buy them. So they were offering 
these shares  to Mrs W. The fraudster told her they had already  been purchased  by Select Securities 
for $30, so if she bought c £9,000 worth, she would get about three times this back. She was told a lot 
of people had taken up this offer, some cancelling  their pensions to buy these  shares
Mrs W was again tempted  by the promise of such high returns. As she had done before, she 
transferred money from her credit card into her Lloyds current account and made a further payment to 
the account in Hong Kong  for £9,225. 
Mrs W says the fraudster tried to get her to invest even more, but she wasnt sure if shed be allowed 
to put more on her credit  card  and if she could  she thought a further investment would be beyond  
her. 
Mrs W has said that sometime later she checked  online  and could see the shares  had started  to 
trade. Mrs W doesnt  recall  exactly  when  this was, only that it was at some stage after shed made the 
second transfer.  Having seen the shares were trading, she contacted  the fraudster. She was told that 
the shares were being  watched,  and they would  be sold in an hour or so. Mrs W says she kept 
speaking to the fraudster, but was told that the share price would go up and up and so they were  
waiting to sell them. 
The next time Mrs W tried to speak  to the fraudster, she was only able to speak to somebody who 
said they were the secretary. She did receive some emails from the fraudster  at this time, but was 
unable to speak to them directly. A few weeks after shed  made  the payments  Mrs W was told the 
man she had been speaking to had gone away to Australia - she began to worry at this point, as she 
says it started to feel a bit strange. 
Mrs W has shared some of these  emails  with us, which show the fraudsters telling Mrs W there were  
issues and delays with systems, which resulted in transactions being delayed.  The emails apologise 
to Mrs W for these issues and also offer her a £500  red letter  weekend as a gesture  Mrs W has 
confirmed she didnt receive the red-letter weekend. 
Mrs W has said that at this point, in December  2014, she raised her concerns with Lloyds and also 
with the police  in Hong Kong. Mrs W says the police  in Hong Kong told her she needed  to contact her 
bank as they were going to freeze  the fraudsters bank  account. The police  told her there was 
c.£76,000 in the fraudsters account and she wouldnt
be able to do anything once they had frozen it, as the money would go to the Hong  Kong government. 
Mrs W has also provided evidence of an email from the Inspector of Police in Hong Kong, which  
seems to suggest the account may have been frozen as early as October  2014.
After the account had been frozen Mrs W says she had an email from the Hong  Kong police  telling 
her she needed to fill a form in, with help from a lawyer, to try and get her money back. Mrs W says 
she contacted a number of lawyers in Hong Kong  but was told that it would cost around £12,000 to try 
and get her money back. Mrs W has also told us that she also contacted a solicitor in the UK, but was 
charged £90, only for them to tell her that they couldnt help her. 
Mrs W raised the complaint  with Lloyds in January  2015, but Lloyds rejected  her complaint as they 
had tried to recover the funds on a best endeavours  basis. Lloyds have said they explained  this in a 
letter to Mrs W in March 2015, however I havent  had sight of this letter.
Still unhappy,  Mrs W complained to Lloyds  again in February 2016 and the complaint  was re-opened. 
Lloyds issued their final response to Mrs W in February 2016  they said they tried to recall the 
payments from the beneficiary bank on 17 December  2014, but despite every effort being made  to try 
and recover the funds, it had been unsuccessful. 
Overall Lloyds said they did all they could  to try and assist and did not think  theyd made an error. 
Ref: DRN34253314At this point Mrs W contacted some friends she knew who lived in Hong Kong, they were  able to ask 
their lawyer to help Mrs W. The lawyers in Hong  Kong looked into things  for Mrs W but reported back  
that, after speaking  to the Hong Kong police, they had established that four other victims had 
previously instructed a law firm to take civil action and obtained court  orders.  This had resulted  in the 
account being  unfrozen in April 2016, with all of the funds remaining in the account being divided 
between them, and that no further funds remained. It is unclear from the information I have available 
how much  was divided  amongst  the other four victims. 
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service in May 2016. One of our investigators looked  into the 
matter and didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. They said they were unable to see what  more Lloyds 
could have done, as Mrs W transferred the funds willingly from her account. The investigator also 
thought Lloyds had made sufficient effort to try and assist Mrs W in the recovery of the money  that 
was sent to the fraudster.  
Mrs W came back  to us some time after the investigator had closed the complaint, asking us to look 
into things again. 
An investigator provided  a summary of their view to Lloyds  the investigator thought the activity on 
Mrs Ws account  was unusual and that Lloyds should have intervened.  The investigator thought  that if 
Lloyds had intervened Mrs W would have been dissuaded from making the payments and the scam 
would have been prevented. 
The investigator felt that Select  Securities  Ltd was a cloned investment firm and asked Lloyds to 
reconsider its position and share its thoughts. Lloyds didnt agree  with our investigators thoughts and 
so the complaint has been  passed  over to me for a decision.
Mrs W has told us that neither she, nor her husband, were experienced investors. Shes  told us that 
they owned  a small number of Lloyds shares. Mrs W has said throughout the fraud the two men she 
spoke to, both came  across as very professional.  Due to this, and as they knew  her name, she was 
persuaded by what the fraudsters had told her. Mrs W also didnt think  that it would  be possible for a 
fraudster to have a bank account that money could be paid into. 
Rather than the payments going to Select Securities, Mrs W has said she noticed the payments went 
to a company called Drake  Trading. Mrs W recalls  thinking this was a little strange at the time, but she 
thought sometimes companies have  another name for where money  goes to, so she didnt question  it 
anymore, as she trusted what the fraudster had told her.
Ive shared my initial  thoughts with Lloyds, and I explained I was minded to ask them to refund Mrs W 
from the second transaction Mrs W made. Lloyds didnt agree to this and asked for a formal  decision 
and so Ill go on to explain  my provisional  findings  in more detail below. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes  of practice; 
and, where  appropriate, what I consider to have  been  good  industry  practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers account.   And I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
Ref: DRN34253315But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable  to its customer  if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for believing  
that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its customer  
(known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6). 
Firms  are also required  to comply with legal and regulatory  anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism  requirements.   In 2014 those requirements included  
maintaining proportionate  and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess  and 
manage money laundering risk  for example  through customer  due diligence measures and 
the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship (including through the scrutiny  of 
transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship).   
Firms  also have a longstanding regulatory duty to counter the risk they might be used to 
further financial crime  (SYSC 3.2.6R which  has applied since 2001).
Over the years, the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (from  April 2013)  and its predecessor  
the Financial Services  Authority, have issued a series of papers setting  out examples of good and 
poor practice found when reviewing measures  banks  take to counter financial crime (including  
investment fraud), including:    
In December 2011,  PS 11/15 Financial crime: a guide for firms
In June 2012, Banks defences against investment fraud   Detecting perpetrators and 
protecting victims  which  considered banks efforts to counter fraud, and in particular 
investment fraud (including  boiler room/share  sale fraud) both where their customer  was a 
fraudster and where  the customer is the victim. 
In April 2015 Financial crime: a guide for firms  Part 1: A firms guide to preventing financial 
crime which consolidated FCA guidance on financial crime based primarily on its 
predecessors thematic reviews.
Examples of good practice  included in the June 2012 investment fraud paper included: real time 
payment screening against a well formulated watch list; transaction  monitoring rules designed to 
detect specific types of investment fraud; banks actively contacting  customers  if suspect  payments 
are identified; banks placing  material on investment  fraud  on its website; work to detect and prevent 
investment fraud being  integrated with a banks  vulnerable  customs initiative.
The FSA also explained that: we have a regulatory remit to tackle investment fraud,  which has 
prompted our particular  interest  in this area, although the lessons of this report  can be applied to 
banks handling of other types of fraud and criminal conduct affecting their customers.
Taking these  things into account, I consider  that at the time of Mrs Ws payment, Lloyds  should fairly 
and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were at risk of fraud, including the risk of investment scams.   
And there were circumstances in September 2014, irrespective of the payment channel  used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably have taken  additional steps, or make additional  
checks, before  processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to 
help protect  customers  from the possibility of financial  harm from fraud.   
Ref: DRN34253316Considering all of this, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in their dealings 
with Mrs W when she transferred £3,000, to an account in Hong Kong  she had not previously had 
dealings with, and a further £9,225 to the same account three weeks later.    
Ive thought carefully about  the first payment  Mrs W made for £3,000 and Ive reviewed    Mrs Ws 
account statements and the way she operated her account. Mrs W has transferred £3,000 into her 
account from her credit  card and then almost  immediately  paid these funds out. It is unusual for Mrs 
W to make a transfer into her account from a credit card, but Lloyds have clarified it wouldnt have 
been obvious  to them at the time, that the funds had come from a credit card  but that it would have  
been able to establish this if it had looked further into the payment. And from the information Ive 
seen, I cant see that Mrs W regularly set up new payees, made  foreign  payments and, importantly, I 
cant see that she made any outgoing payments for this amount in the months leading up to the scam.  
But, I must balance this by considering whether the transaction was sufficiently unusual that Lloyds 
ought reasonably to have intervened  and while it is finely balanced, I do not think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably when it allowed  this transaction to be processed without  intervention. 
However, I think that at the point Mrs W made a further payment of £9,225 to the same overseas 
account having transferred  the same amount into her account shortly before, Lloyds should  fairly and 
reasonably have identified that the activity on her account was unusual and they ought to have 
contacted Mrs W to make  further  enquiries before processing the payment.
Had they looked into things  further,  I think it is more likely than not that Lloyds  would have quickly 
established that Mrs W was the victim of an investment  fraud.
Mrs W thought she was making a genuine investment so I think its more likely than not she would 
have explained what she was doing (she had not been coached by the fraudster to provide a cover  
story, as can often be the case).
And upon finding out that Mrs W wanted to make the payment to fund an investment in Hong  Kong, I 
think Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have asked her questions about  the investment  - such as, 
how she heard about it, whether shed been cold called,  what return had she been promised etc. 
Additionally, they could have  asked  why Mrs W was transferring funds  from her credit card, in order to 
make an international payment. 
And I think its more  likely  than not that Lloyds would  have identified and explained  to Mrs W that 
there was a high probability, given how she had been contacted, the proposed  share  transactions and 
the promised returns, that she was the unwitting  victim of a scam.  Had they done this, I dont think 
Mrs W would  have proceeded to make the transfer., particularly because  of Mr and Mrs W financial 
circumstances - with Mrs W telling  us she didnt  really have the funds to invest and was having  to 
borrow on a credit  card to do so. 
Recovery of Funds
Given Im minded to conclude Lloyds ought to have prevented Mrs W from making the second 
payment, Ive thought about what is more likely than not to have happened if Lloyds had tried to 
recover the first payment  (as Id have expected it to once  it was aware Mrs W had been scammed)
Mrs W reported  the scam to Lloyds on 16 December 2014. Lloyds have given evidence to show they 
did contact the receiving bank, in an attempt to recover the funds, on 17 December 2014,  the day 
after Mrs W first raised her concerns with them. But these attempts were unsuccessful  - from what 
Lloyds have sent I can see between 17 December  2014 and    4 March 2015,  Lloyds sent nine 
requests/chasers requesting  a recall of Mrs Ws payment. The responses they received from the 
receiving bank varied from the payment not being recognised, requests for more information and a 
direction that Mrs W should  contact the local and Hong Kong police.
Ref: DRN34253317Ive also seen  that Lloyds made  further attempts  to recover  the funds  from January  2016  but again 
these were unsuccessful.
Given these events  happened such a long time ago, and because I dont know for sure whether the 
account was frozen, its difficult  to know for sure exactly what wouldve happened if Lloyds had tried to 
recover the first payment  when Mrs W attempted  to make the second payment. 
There is also no evidence to suggest whether the £3,000 Mrs W paid into the account was still in the 
receiving bank account  its very common for fraudsters to withdraw funds  or move money around 
very soon after receiving  funds. So while  Mrs W was made aware by the Hong Kong police,  I 
understand shortly  after she had contacted Lloyds, there  was around £76,000 left in the account, I 
cant say with any certainty if any of the £76,000 was Mrs Ws money.
So taking all of this into account,  in particular the repeated difficulties Lloyds encountered, when they 
did try and recover the money - Ive not seen enough to fairly say that, on the balance of probabilities,  
that Lloyds would have  been successful in recovering the first payment Mrs W made. So, on balance, 
taking everything into account,  it wouldnt be fair of me to ask Lloyds to refund the money  Mrs W lost 
through the first payment  she made. 
Impact on Mrs W
Mrs W has told us that she has found this whole matter very stressful and it has led to her finding 
herself in some financial difficulties  and she has had difficulties paying her mortgage.  
Mrs W has fallen victim to the working of a cunning  fraudster  and it is they who are primarily  
responsible for what  has happened her. But, Lloyds  could and ought  to have prevented     Mrs W from 
losing some of the money as a result of the scam. By stopping  some of the financial losses Mrs W 
incurred, Im minded that Lloyds could have significantly reduced the overall impact on Mrs W.
Considering everything, I think Lloyds should pay Mrs W £300 in compensation  for the
distress and inconvenience  she experienced as a result of their actions
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part. My provisional decision is 
that Lloyds Bank Plc should;
-refund Mrs W the £9,225 she lost through  her second transaction
-pay 8% interest on this from the time of the transaction, up until the time of settlement
-pay Mrs W £300 for the trouble and upset caused
Both parties should now send me any comments or information  theyd like me to consider before 
16 April 2020.
Ref: DRN3425331