K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) was wrong to place a block on his 
account, and thereafter took too long to remove it.
 
background
In autumn 2018,  Santander became concerned about some  transactions  on Mr Ts account. 
Notably a large transfer. As these were  security concerns, the relevant process was 
triggered and the account was blocked until Santander could speak with Mr T to ensure he 
wasnt a victim of fraud. 
Santander tried to contact  Mr T by telephone,  and once successful he was able to reassure 
it that everything was in order and the account block was lifted. This process took ten days.
Mr T complained to Santander that it had over-reacted, presuming he was victim to a scam, 
and that it shouldnt have blocked his account. He was also unhappy at how long it took to 
sort matters out and have the block lifted.
Santander defended its actions, saying  that it was protecting its customer, and didnt think  it 
had done anything wrong.
The complaint then came to our service, where  our adjudicator investigated  matters  and 
concluded that he agreed that Santander had only acted in Mr Ts best interests,  and under 
the terms and conditions of his account. As such, he said he couldnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr T remained unhappy, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our adjudicator,  and Im unable  to say that Santander 
did anything wrong  here.  Indeed, if it had failed  to do so and a fraud had been committed, 
the parties would  now be in a far worse  state  of affairs. 
What happened  here was a matter of prevention. To be on the safe side, as it were. And 
thats what I, as a customer,  would expect from a financial institution when taking care of my 
money.
While I can see how Mr T might have felt offended  or embarrassed by the type of scam 
Santander was concerned  about, I cant say that what it did was out of proportion  or an over-
reaction. I think it was the right thing to do in the circumstances, and it acted within  the terms 
of the account,  and in accordance with its security processes. Its entitled to do this, and 
indeed its what Id expect.
So while I can see this caused  some distress and inconvenience to Mr T, I think that was 
unfortunate collateral  damage,  and it ultimately acted correctly and in good  faith.
Ref: DRN35033812Turning to how long it took for the block to be lifted once Mr T was able to reassure 
Santander that there was no scam,  again  it doesnt feel fair to me to place all of the 
responsibility for this at Santanders door. 
When it first blocked the account, Mr T was informed in branch that an investigation would 
be carried out. The following day Mr T called  for more information on the block, and was told 
that another  department would have to lift it. Ten days later this was then done.
In the meantime, Santander tried twice to call Mr T back to discuss  and resolve  matters.  But 
it wasnt able to speak  to him. On this basis  namely that Santander did try to contact Mr T 
within three days to resolve issues  and tried again four days later  I dont think its fair to 
say that the ten day wait was entirely  its fault.  And I dont think  any compensation is payable 
for this. 
Mr T does  query why Santander couldnt  have texted him, but its not for me to say how it 
should contact  its customers, and I think  a phone call is perfectly acceptable and indeed 
more secure in the circumstances.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr T, but I do hope Ive been able to 
explain my conclusions and why I think theyre fair to both parties.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3503381