K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that Inter Partner Assistance  SA (IPA)  has declined  a claim she made on 
her travel insurance policy. 
background
Mrs M claimed  on her Coverwise travel insurance policy as she wasnt well enough to go on 
her holiday.  Its not disputed that the reason  she couldnt go was due to severe nausea 
connected to her pregnancy. 
IPA declined the claim because they said Mrs M hadnt declared pre-existing medical 
conditions. They said that if she had they wouldnt have offered her this policy.  The 
conditions that are specifically referred to are irritable bowel syndrome and allergic rhinitis. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Mrs M ought  to have declared her medical history to IPA and, if she had, they wouldnt have 
offered her the policy and shed have been  redirected to other insurers  that would cover her. 
The investigator thought theyd acted  in line with the relevant legislation  which  is the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Mrs M didnt  agree and pointed out that the conditions werent pre-existing. In summary  she 
says they were minor  one-off illnesses which were treated with antibiotics or painkillers. So 
she doesnt think its fair to decline the claim.  She asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs M bought the policy she was asked: 
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing  medical  condition?
The guidance beneath  it says:
To ensure you have  the right cover for your trip it is important  you tell us about your 
medical history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate  your 
policy. Examples include diabetes, high blood  pressure, depression and respiratory  
conditions (including  asthma). 
Given what Mrs M said about the circumstances of her medical  conditions  I can understand 
why she answered  no to that particular question.  
But, before confirming the sale,  Mrs M was asked more questions including:
Within the last 5 years  have you or anyone  you wish to insure on this policy  suffered 
any medical condition  that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment 
including surgery, tests  or investigations?   
Ref: DRN37313542I think that this was a clear question.  Mrs M answered no before  ticking a box to say shed 
read the important  information about the limitations  of the policy. 
I dont think Mrs M took reasonable care when answering that question.  Shed visited the GP 
a number of times within the last five years  for various medical conditions and received 
prescriptions. So, I think the answer to the question ought to have been yes. 
If Mrs M had answered yes IPA wouldnt have offered her this contract  of insurance. She 
wouldnt have been able to continue with the sale and would have been directed  back  to 
insurers who offered cover for pre-existing medical  conditions. 
CIDRA sets out different  remedies  depending  on how the misrepresentation happened. If it 
is careless then IPA is entitled to avoid the policy and refund the premiums.  But it the 
misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless  IPA can avoid the policy  and keep the premiums. 
Ive taken into account that there  was no connection between  Mrs Ms medical history and 
the cancellation of her holiday. But, had she answered the question  correctly, IPA would  not 
have offered her this policy. The evidence Ive seen suggests that shed have been directed  
to a panel of insurers who do cover pre-existing  medical conditions via the price comparison 
site she had used.  Theres no evidence which makes me think  that, had she done so, Mrs M 
would have taken  out a different Coverwise  policy. I say that because  Mrs M is most likely to 
have been presented with a whole range of options from various providers at a range  of 
different prices and with different  benefits. So in the circumstances  of this case  I cant  
reasonably conclude that shed have chosen a different Coverwise policy  which covered her 
pre-existing conditions.   
I note that IPA has offered Mrs M the option to get a refund  of her premiums.  So, I think  
theyve considered this case  on the basis that Mrs M was careless.  I think thats fair and 
reasonable and in line with the relevant legislation. Its open  to Mrs M to contact IPA to 
accept the refund if she wants  to but I wont be directing IPA to do anything  more in relation 
to this complaint.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 17 March  2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3731354