K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading  as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
background 
This complaint is about two loans that Satsuma provided to Miss C - heres  a table setting  
out details: 
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 09/11/2018 23/11/2018 12 £100.00 £16.60
2 25/11/2018 13/03/2019 9 £900.00 £199.80
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly 
provided. 
Miss C disagreed. She mainly says that if Satsuma had carried  out the appropriate credit 
checks it should have  done, it wouldve clearly seen  that she was struggling with debt and 
having to borrow  more and more. 
So the complaint comes  to me to decide. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. 
Before lending to Miss C, Satsuma asked  Miss C for information  about her financial 
situation, such as her monthly income and her outgoings, and it carried out credit checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about  whether it was fair for Satsuma to lend to 
Miss C.
loan 1
When Miss C took out her first loan I think Satsuma  was entitled to rely on the information 
Miss C provided. This suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing as shed  
said her monthly income was around £2,800 and her expenses were about  half this amount. 
Ref: DRN32384062To give Miss C a safety  margin in terms of her borrowing Satsuma assumed she could have 
less disposable  income than shed  said. And even on the adjusted figures that Satsuma 
worked on, the repayments on loan 1 shouldve been comfortably affordable  for her.   
Satsuma expected Miss C would  be paying for this loan over twelve  monthly repayments 
and Ive thought carefully  about whether it should in these circumstances have gone  further 
in the checks  it did. But bearing in mind  that the monthly repayments were just £16.60,  
I dont think a proportionate check for this loan wouldve required Satsuma to ask her any 
more probing questions than it did or do any further  checks.
At this early stage, Miss C didnt have any track record  with the lender that shouldve  alerted 
Satsuma to any underlying money problems, and I cant  see that there  was anything in the 
information she provided or the information Satsuma had, which meant that Satsuma 
shouldve taken steps to enquire  further  into her financial situation  or verify the information 
Miss C had declared. 
So I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint  about loan 1.
loan 2
Two days after Miss C repaid loan 1 early,  Satsuma re-loaned to her - and provided  her with 
nine times  the amount shed borrowed on loan 1. 
Miss C says that this clearly suggested  she was reliant on borrowing. She strongly believes 
that had Satsuma done the necessary checks it wouldve seen information showing the full 
extent of her other debt and realised that she was struggling with debt and having to borrow 
more and more.  
I think the fact that Miss C was asking to borrow such a large loan so quickly after taking out 
and repaying loan 1 earlier in the month,  especially  as she planned  to pay loan 2 over nine 
months, shouldve prompted  Satsuma to think carefully about whether it had a good  enough  
understanding of her financial circumstances so it could make  a fair lending  decision.
But Ive seen nothing, and havent  been provided with any information, to suggest that 
further checks to verify what  Miss C was saying wouldve  shown that providing loan 2 to her 
was unfair.  
I appreciate Miss C was paying for other  debt elsewhere, including  two other short  term 
loans and two large  loans  taken out just a few months earlier with other lenders.
I can also see that, on top of the amount Miss C declared for her outgoing monthly financial 
commitments, Satsuma boosted this figure by an amount that doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me to cover all her other credit commitments. And Satsuma  took this into account when 
looking at affordability  overall. 
Taking all this into account, it looks to me like the monthly repayments she had to make on 
loan 2 shouldve  still been affordable for her. Miss C had paid loan 1 early  so there wasnt  
anything in her borrowing  history with Satsuma to lead it to think  that she might be having 
serious money problems.  
Ref: DRN32384063Having had the benefit of seeing Miss Cs credit report, I think its fair to say that I havent  
seen anything which shows  Satsuma  should  have decided not to agree this loan, had it seen 
all this information. 
And I cant see that Miss C gave Satsuma any indication that her borrowing elsewhere was 
at the stage where it was causing  her serious  money problems during her application for 
loan 2.  
Im sorry  that Miss C found repaying these  loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation possibly  wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information Satsuma obtained.  
But in order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say that Miss C lost out as a result  
of something that Satsuma did wrong.  And I dont think thats the case. I say this because  
even if Satsuma had done proportionate checks, I havent seen enough to show that it 
shouldve realised that loan 2 was likely  to be unsustainable for her.
So overall, I dont  find that Satsuma acted  unfairly when it provided loan 2 to Miss C. 
 
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss C. But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3238406