K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained to Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) about its response to 
a claim under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).
background
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in December 2019 setting out why I thought 
it should be upheld.   A copy of that decision is attached and forms part of this decision.
Ms S accepted the provisional decision.
Tesco acknowledged  receipt of the provisional decision and asked for an extension  of time 
to respond. But it never provided  any further  comments by the agreed date or after further 
requests.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  comments were provided  in response to my provisional  decision, Ive 
maintained my conclusions as set out in that decision.  In summary, that is to say the solar  
heating system was not fit for purpose and had been mis-represented to Ms S at the time of 
sale.  
So I think Tesco should  have  accepted Ms S claim under  s.75 and should compensate her 
accordingly.
Ref: DRN31079032putting things right
As Ive concluded the complaint should  be upheld, Ive also considered what would  be a 
fair and reasonable method of Tesco putting things right. As the system is not fit for 
purpose and cannot  meet  Ms S needs, I think the most appropriate means  of doing that 
would be to put Ms S in the position  she would  have been in had the system never been 
installed.
To achieve this, Tesco  should:
Pay the cost of removing the Arkaya system.
Pay for the repair of any damage caused  to Ms S property  by the installation  or 
removal of the system.
Refund any payments  Ms S has paid to date in relation to the system.
Refund any interest Ms S has paid to service the borrowing  used  to make payments 
for the system.
Reimburse the cost of the independent engineers report.
Pay £250 trouble and upset.
The payment for trouble and upset is to reflect the distress caused to Ms S. She 
experienced a period of insufficient heating and hot water,  which she relies  upon due to 
her health  conditions.  But also for the concern shes faced about the effect on the value 
and saleability of her home.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms S complaint against Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC and I 
direct it to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31079033COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms S has complained to Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) about  its response to a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).
background
In late 2016 Ms S was contacted by a company called  Arkaya which  offered to reduce  her energy 
bills by installing a solar  assisted  hot water and heating system. The agreed  price was £7,495. Ms 
S used her Tesco credit card to make some of the payments for the system, and it was fitted in 
her home.
Ms S soon found  the system  didnt  work as she expected and didnt  meet her needs.  She says it 
wasnt able to provide sufficient hot water or heat the radiators adequately for heating her home. 
She raised her concerns with Arkaya that the system didnt work  as was sold to her, and also that the 
fitting of the system had caused damage to her property.
Unhappy with the response from Arkaya, Ms S raised  a s.75 claim with Tesco  in early 2017. It 
investigated and requested sales literature  and materials from Arkaya, who said the system was 
never intended to meet all Ms S hot water and heating needs. It said the new system  was designed 
to work in conjunction  with the existing  system, which wasnt  removed.
Tesco also suggested Ms S may wish to arrange for an inspection by an independent engineer in 
support of her claim.  The engineers report said the new system  could not heat the property on a 
standalone basis, but also that it wasnt capable of working alongside the existing gas boiler as 
Arkaya alleged it would. He concluded the system may need to be removed as it couldnt  function  
as it was.
Ultimately Tesco declined the s.75 claim on the basis that the system was only intended to assist 
with hot water production and not work as a standalone system for providing hot water and heating.  
As Ms S disagreed, she referred  her complaint to this Service for review.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and felt it should  be upheld.  He noted that there 
was limited information available  about what was discussed from the time of sale,  but concluded it 
was unlikely Ms S would have agreed to the system installation if she had known  that it would  be 
necessary to switch between systems. Taking account of this and the engineers  report, the 
investigator felt it was likely to have been mis-represented  to Ms S and there was a breach of 
contract as it wasnt fit for purpose.
Tesco disagreed with the investigators findings.  It said theres no evidence  to suggest the system 
was not working as intended, and although Ms S is disappointed  with its performance, it does not 
mean there has been a breach of contract.  It also highlighted concerns  about  the accuracy  of the 
independent report.
As no agreement  could be reached,  Ive now been asked to review everything afresh and make a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Ive reached much the same conclusion  as 
the investigator  and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN31079034In situations where there is limited information or what happened is disputed  Im required to decide  
what I consider to be most likely on balance. In this case Ms S says that she was told the system 
would provide  unlimited hot water and was unaware that it would  be necessary to switch between 
systems. But Tesco states the reason the existing boiler  was kept in place was to allow a 
changeover between systems when  required.
In deciding  what was most likely agreed and explained to Ms S I have taken  a number of factors  
into account.  But some of the key considerations  are:
Ms S has multiple  health conditions  which require her to maintain a warm temperature in 
her home,  and have a hot shower when needed  in order to relieve some of the 
symptoms of her conditions.
In order to switch over between systems requires  a plumber  to be in attendance.
The cost of the system was £7,495.
Ms S raised  initial concerns about the performance of the system almost immediately after 
the installation.
The system was unable to support the needs of Ms S as a sole occupant,  but the property 
has several bedrooms  which  would  be usual for the occupancy of multiple persons.
Given the above  factors, I am not persuaded that Ms S would have gone ahead  with the new system  
if she knew  that it wouldnt  met her needs for providing  heating and hot water.  The process to switch 
between systems is not something which Ms S can carry out herself, and it requires the attendance 
of a plumber to do. Given Ms S health and reliance upon  hot water and heating, it would not be 
practical for her to call out a plumber (incurring cost and having to wait) on each occasion it is 
needed.
I understand  Tesco has raised concerns about the accuracy and extent of the inspection  by the 
independent engineer.  But Im satisfied Ms S instructed  the engineer in good faith upon the 
suggestion that she did so by Tesco  and I consider that reasonable.
The engineers report stated that a system generating 11.5kw  would be required to provide sufficient 
heating. The new system  provided  two 2.8kw boxes, and so that would never have been enough for 
Ms S needs.  At section  4.1 the report states:
It is my opinion  that the solar assisted heat pump system installed to heat the radiator  system 
is inadequate in power and therefore is not fit for purpose.
So overall, Ive concluded  that the system is not fit for purpose and, on balance,  was mis-
represented to Ms S. And as the new system cannot work alongside the existing boiler system 
without being switched over by a plumber on each  occasion, I consider theres a breach  of 
contract. For these reasons Ive decided  Ms S complaint  should be upheld.
putting things right
As Ive concluded  the complaint should be upheld, Ive also considered what would be a fair and 
reasonable method of Tesco  putting  things  right.  As the system is not fit for purpose and cannot 
meet Ms S needs, I think the most appropriate means of doing that would be to put Ms S in the 
position she would have been in had the system never been installed.
To achieve this, Tesco should:
Pay the cost of removing the Arkaya system.
Pay for the repair of any damage caused to Ms S property by the installation  or removal of 
the system.
Refund any payments  Ms S has paid to date in relation to the system.
Ref: DRN31079035Refund any interest Ms S has paid to service the borrowing used to make  payments for the 
system.
Reimburse the cost of the independent engineers report.
Pay £250  trouble and upset.
The payment for trouble and upset is to reflect the distress caused to Ms S. She experienced a 
period of insufficient heating  and hot water, which  she relies upon due to her health conditions.   But 
also for the concern  shes faced  about the effect  on the value and saleability of her home.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is that I uphold  Ms S complaint  against Tesco  
Personal Finance Plc.
Ref: DRN3107903