K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Positive Solutions  (Financial  Services)  Limited  (PSFS) mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 2009 in connection with a 
mortgage.
background
Mr K complained to this Service.  He said the PPI was added to his mortgage but no-one 
spoke to him about it. He remembers signing a disclaimer when  he applied for his mortgage 
through PSFS;  the disclaimer said he did not want to buy PPI. He initially complained to his 
lender but the lender  said it was not responsible and said the broker, PSFS sold the PPI. So 
he complained  to PSFS.
PSFS said as Mr K had signed a disclaimer  that was sufficient  proof that it did not sell the 
PPI to Mr K. Any commission it received was for introduction of new business to the lender 
and not a commission for the sale. So it concludes is does not have  to look at Mr Ks PPI 
mis-sale complaint.
Mr K also complained to his lender.  His lender company said it did not sell the PPI because 
it paid a monthly commission to PSFS.  So it concludes PSFS  must have sold the PPI policy.
Our adjudicator thought PSFS probably sold the PPI at some later time after Mr K had 
initially declined it. PSFS  disagreed with our adjudicators view asked for the matter  to be 
looked at again.
PSFS added the following points:
These PPI policies were sold direct  by the lender  to the consumer;
The commission paid by the lender was for the introduction of Mr K as new business 
to the lender;
It accepts  it advised  on the mortgage  loan;
The lender  was trying to avoid liability;
The lender  has confirmed in the past on other cases  that it sold the PPI direct to the 
consumer;
PSFS has no contact  notes showing it had direct contact with Mr K after the 
mortgage had been sold.
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019 where I explained why I thought  PSFS  was 
not responsible  for looking at this PPI mis-sale  complaint. We sent a copy  of my provisional 
decision to both parties and invited them to comment. PSFS  had nothing further to add. Mr K 
asked to see all documents I had relied on. This Service complied with Mr Ks request  on 9 
April. Mr K did not send  in any other  evidence or comments for me to consider. I believe both 
parties have had sufficient  time to consider my provisional decision. As neither  party  has 
produced any new comments or evidence,  I see no reason to change  the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision.
So in this final decision, I will be considering whether PSFS is responsible for selling the PPI 
to Mr K.
Ref: DRN34529082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether PSFS is responsible for the sale of the PPI policy.  
If I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  
think PSFS was responsible for the PPI sale to Mr K, then Im not able to consider  a PPI 
mis-sale complaint against PSFS  and this will mean I cannot uphold  the mis-sale  
complaint against  it. 
In this case I am going to say PSFS is probably not responsible for this PPI sale; so I cannot 
uphold the PPI mis-sale  complaint against PSFS. I know this will disappoint Mr K, so I will 
explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence from Mr K. He recalls he went to PSFS  to apply for a 
mortgage. He explained he did not want PPI or had any need for it. So he remembers  
signing a disclaimer which said: 
I have decided not to take advantage of Mortgage  Payment  Protection Insurance 
PSFS has produced a copy  of the disclaimer which Mr K signed  and dated  on 20 November 
2008.
I have also looked  very closely  at the mortgage  application  form which  was completed  by 
PSFS for Mr K; I can see there is no mention of PPI on the mortgage application form. The 
lender made the mortgage offer on 27 November  and this also did not mention PPI. So this 
suggests PSFS did nothing to change Mr Ks position on PPI between  20 and 27 November.
However, it seems the lender sent Mr K a written  PPI quote  on 16 January 2009. So it looks 
like Mr K changed his mind about  buying PPI sometime between 20 November 2008 and 16 
January 2009.  Mr K says no-one  contacted  or called him again after he spoke to PSFS  
about the mortgage. Ive also noted  that PSFS and the lender say they each have no 
records or call notes  to show they contacted Mr K after he signed the PPI disclaimer.
It is also clear  from the lenders internal screenshots that there  was a commission  payment 
made to PSFS but it is not clear  from those records whether the commission was for an 
introduction fee or for the sale. So  in the light of the other  evidence  I have already 
mentioned above  in this particular case - I dont  think the commission payments  are 
conclusive evidence in itself that PSFS actually  sold the PPI. 
It is not clear  from any of the documents I have seen that it was more likely that PSFS  sold 
the PPI to Mr K in 2009.  Even Mr K remembers signing a disclaimer to say he did not want  it 
in late 2008 and I cannot see any evidence  which  says PSFS did anything  to change  that 
position. So I cannot say PSFS is responsible for this particular PPI sale or for looking at the 
mis-sale complaint.
As I think  PSFS was not responsible for the PPI sale, it follows  that it also was not 
responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So I am not going to uphold this PPI mis-
sale complaint against  PSFS. 
Ref: DRN34529083my final decision
My final decision is that Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited is probably not 
responsible for selling the PPI to Mr K and so I do not uphold  the PPI mis-sale complaint 
against Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3452908