K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he wasnt  allowed  to change his five year fixed rate savings account 
with Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC after he paid money into it. Mr D also complains that 
Tesco gave  him incorrect information about  the number of deposits that can be made  into 
the account. 
background
Mr D applied online for a five year fixed rate savings account  on 5 November 2018.  He then 
called Tesco to get information about how to make deposits and was told it would accept 
multiple payments  into the account  in the first five days it was open.  Mr D went on to make 
three transfers totalling around £30,000  but only the first was credited to his account. 
Mr D called Tesco back on 7 November 2018  and said hed selected the wrong product and 
wanted to switch to a one year fixed rate instead.  Tesco explained that as his five year fixed 
rate had already been funded by a payment of £10,000 it couldnt  change it. 
During the same call Mr D asked about  two other  payments that hadnt credited his account.  
The call handler asked  whether Mr D still wanted to pay them  into the five year fixed  rate 
savings account.  Mr D confirmed he wanted  the money returned. 
Mr D complained and Tesco  responded on 19 November  2018. Tesco  said the terms of the 
product Mr D applied  for meant once a payment  is made into the account  it cant  be 
cancelled. Tesco said Mr D appeared happy  that the £20,000 payments were going to be 
returned when  he spoke with it on 7 November  2018. Tesco also offered to accept the 
£20,000 back into the account and backdate  the interest. 
Mr D referred  his complaint to our service and an adjudicator looked at what  had happened.  
He said that Tesco had initially given Mr D the right information when he called on 
5 November 2018 as it can push more  than one payment into an account. He also said that 
Tesco hadnt  made a mistake  when it told Mr D he couldnt withdraw his money from the five 
year fixed  rate savings  account. Mr D didnt accept the adjudicators  view so his complaints 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has raised  several issues so Ill look at each  in turn. Im going to start with whether 
Tesco will accept more than one payment to fund the account.  When  Mr D spoke with Tesco 
on 5 November 2018 he was told that in the first five days  after opening  multiple payments 
could be made to his savings  account. Tesco explained that theyd need to be manually 
transferred in by a member of staff.  Mr D went on to make  three  transfers to his account. 
The first was successful, the second  and third were  held and ultimately returned to him. 
When Mr D spoke with Tesco on 7 November  2018 he was told that the two additional 
payments hadnt  credited the account  and would  be returned to him in around five days. 
Ref: DRN31935652Mr D had already told the call handler he didnt want the five year fixed  rate and sounded  
pleased that he would  receive  the rest of his money  back. Ive listened to the call several 
times and the call handler does ask Mr D whether he was interested in using those 
payments to fund the five year fixed  rate account or if he wanted them to be returned.  Mr D 
said he wanted the money  back,  which is what happened. 
Ultimately, this issue seems to have worked  in Mr Ds favour  as the fact the second  and third 
payments werent  immediately credited  to the account meant they werent  tied up for a five 
year period.  During  the call, Mr D said he would put the money in a shorter term option. 
I appreciate the information about whether more than one payment could be accepted  
wasnt very clear but I havent found  that Tesco misled Mr D or gave him a wrong answer. 
From what  I heard,  the conversation moved  on when Mr D asked the call handler to try and 
trace his payments. 
The main  focus  of Mr Ds complaint is whether  it was fair for Tesco  to say he couldnt  
change his mind. Mr D asked about a cooling  off period but Tescos  terms confirm that once 
funds have been paid in they cant be withdrawn. Theres nothing in the terms that says 
theres a cooling  off period and the industry rules  dont say Tesco has to give customers  a 
chance to change their minds. As a result,  I havent found Tescos  made  a mistake by 
declining Mr Ds request.
Tesco says Mr D opened the account  himself  online and I think thats a reasonable point. I 
think Mr D was most likely  aware  of the fixed rate term when he applied  and later changed 
his mind. I appreciate  some of his money is now locked in for a five year period but thats in 
line with what Mr D asked Tesco to do when he applied and funded the account.  Im sorry  to 
disappoint Mr D but I havent found  hes been  treated unfairly  by Tesco  or that it shouldve 
allowed him to change the fixed rate period. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3193565