K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of her son that National Savings and Investments made mistakes 
which meant he missed out on the opportunity to have premium bonds.
  
background
Mrs M first purchased  £100 of premium bonds for her son by debit card in October 2015. 
NS&I accepts it wrongly told her she could  buy further bonds  for him by standing  order.  She 
set up a standing  order in April 2016 and over time paid a further  £3,100 to buy bonds. In 
November 2017  she asked for a statement of his holdings. This was not sent and she asked 
for this again  in January  2018. She found  out that the standing order payments had not been  
applied. The terms and conditions  said that NS&I would not accept  electronic transfers to 
buy bonds for children. She had not realised  the money had been returned. NS&I paid her 
£250 for giving  her incorrect information  and for poor customer  service. 
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-He accepted that Mrs M was misled by NS&I.  But he did not think  it could be 
responsible for paying her £3,100 as it had already  returned the money.
-All the payments were  sent back as rejected ones by NS&I  to her bank account. It 
was reasonable  to think Mrs M would have noticed this. And she had used the 
money for other  spending.
-Mrs M had been also buying  bonds  for herself  and had been  receiving  purchase  
confirmations. She had not received anything for her sons holdings  after the first 
purchase. This seemed to be what had prompted her to contact NS&I in November  
2017.
-He thought that the compensation was reasonable for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mrs M did not agree. She provided  copies of her bank statements which she said did not 
make clear  that the money for bonds  for her son had been rejected by NS&I. She did not 
think it had done  enough to make  her aware of the issue: especially as it had made the 
mistake in the first place.  It was unfair to say the money had been  spent  as she did not find 
out about it until February 2018. She had suffered immense stress and emotional strain.  The 
investigator had not mentioned the customer service issues. NS&I did not send her a 
statement in November 2017 and it did not return  her call as promised. Its first response to 
her complaint was not sympathetic and it only offered her compensation when she pursued it 
further. Her son has lost out on this money  and the opportunity for winnings. Had she known 
the position she could have used  the money  elsewhere for him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want first to say that I understand  the strong feelings Mrs M has about  what happened.  And 
I have taken into account all the comments she has made and the copies of her bank 
statements and other evidence she has provided.  Her intention  was to put money aside for 
her son and she was very upset  to learn that this had not happened.
I can see from her bank  statements from another  financial  business that the money was 
returned each  time by NS&I within a few days of her standing order.  The statement narrative 
Ref: DRN31350602did not say it was rejected but it did include the reference number for her sons premium 
bonds. 
The terms and conditions  of NS&I state  that payments for bonds  for children cannot be 
made by electronic transfer. And that is defined  to include standing  orders.  So NS&I did not 
make a mistake in returning  the money to Mrs M. The mistake  it accepts it made  was telling 
her she could make payments in this way in the first place. She relied  on that.
I appreciate she feels the money has been lost. I can see her point  of view - that the 
opportunity to buy bonds for her son has now been missed. And thats because the money 
she wanted to allocate monthly is no longer available. Those bonds could have led to prizes 
for her son. She thinks hes has missed out.
However, I need to consider whether NS&I is responsible  for any such  financial loss. Im 
afraid I dont think it fairly is. It did not keep the money. I cant say it was required to write  to 
her each time to tell her the money had been returned. And I agree that there was a 
reasonable opportunity for Mrs M to question the credits on her bank account. Or to ask why 
she was not receiving any confirmation  of bond purchases for her son: when she was getting 
this for her own personal purchases in her name.  The money was not put aside by her: and 
so in a running  current account was applied to other things. But I dont consider that this 
constitutes a loss of that money that NS&I should be responsible  for.
It did not respond to her request  for a statement for her son when she called in November  
2017  or tell her at that time that the money was not being applied  to buy bonds for her son. 
It did not handle  her complaint well and initially acknowledged its error. It has paid £250 for 
this. Im making my own judgement about what is reasonable here taking into account our 
published guidelines. Having done so I do think that this was a fair response to what 
happened. I know Mrs M will be very disappointed by my decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that National Savings  and 
Investment does not need to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3135060