K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited terminated his income protection 
claim. 
background
Mr B is a member of his employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is to 
pay benefit if he cant work in his normal  occupation (known as own occupation).  
After becoming injured in an accident,  Mr B stopped work and made a claim. Aviva  accepted  
the claim and payment  began in 2012.  
After two years, the definition of incapacity changed under the policy  from own occupation 
to suited occupation. That meant  that when reviewing the claim, Aviva needed to consider 
whether Mr B was able to return to his own occupation or another  occupation  to which  he 
was suited by way of education, training or experience. 
In 2016, Aviva thought Mr B was able to carry out a part-time suited occupation. It therefore 
terminated his claim  payments. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint  to this service.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought the suited occupations  
Aviva had suggested werent  appropriate  for Mr B. She recommended Aviva pay the 
backdated claim payments, plus interest. 
Aviva didnt agree to our investigators recommendations, so the matter  has been passed  to 
me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In terminating  the claim, the onus  is on Aviva to show that Mr B is able to carry out a suited 
occupation. Ive therefore considered the medical  evidence. 
In July 2016, Mr B was assessed by Dr M (consultant occupational physician). Dr M said that 
Mr Bs cognitive function remained  impaired following  his accident, and that he wasnt  fit to 
return to his normal occupation. However,  he thought  Mr B would be capable of working in 
an alternative role on a part-time basis. He said that any such role should be supervised with 
clear instructions, and be predominantly manual. Dr M suggested work in the construction  
industry, postal delivery, and gardening and landscaping. 
Following this assessment, Aviva  arranged for surveillance on Mr B to take place. Aviva 
provided Dr M with a copy of the surveillance,  as well as some  social  media posts relating to 
Mr B passing a sailing  qualification. 
Dr M thought this evidence showed  there were some inconsistencies  in Mr Bs account of 
the impact of his condition. Nonetheless, he remained  of the opinion that Mr B couldnt do 
his normal occupation.  Given his sailing qualification, Dr M thought Mr B may be able to 
carry out an occupation within the sailing  industry (as well as the other occupations hed 
previously suggested).
Ref: DRN39043072Aviva made the decision to terminate Mr Bs claim after receiving Dr Ms comments. 
Mr B disagreed with Dr Ms conclusions and arranged his own assessment with Dr S 
(consultant occupational health physician) in November 2017. 
Aviva says the only report that should  be considered is Dr Ms, as it was this report  that led 
to its decision to terminate  the claim. Also, Mr B saw Dr S some  time after Aviva  had 
terminated the claim.
Whilst I appreciate Aviva  reached its decision based  on Dr Ms report,  Mr B was entitled  to 
arrange his own assessment  with another specialist if he disagreed with Dr Ms findings. 
Although the assessment with Dr S took place some  time after Mr B was assessed by Dr M, 
as I understand  it, Mr Bs cognitive  problems as a result of the accident  had largely  stabilised 
at the time of both assessments. So Im satisfied its reasonable for me to take into account 
Dr Ss opinion. 
Dr S said that given  Mr Bs neurological  symptoms, she didnt  think he could  return to work 
in his normal occupation. She thought hed be unable to carry out a role which has normal  
demands on concentration,  memory and focusing. And that he would require the presence of 
another person when completing  tasks, and would require repeated  prompting  to focus on 
the task (and that prompting may be as frequent as every 30 seconds). Dr S concluded  that 
Mr B was able to carry out manual  tasks,  but given  his limitations,  she didnt think he could 
find a job within his requirements. 
Dr S also commented on some of the roles suggested by Dr M. She explained  shes  
provided occupational health  services to the Royal Mail and the construction  industry.  Dr S 
didnt think Mr B could work  as a postman, due to his problems with focusing. She also didnt 
think he could work  in construction, as she thought hed struggle to make quick  decisions 
ensuring his safety.  Dr S said he might  be able to carry  out a role in gardening and 
landscaping, but couldnt deal with any significant machinery, overhead work, or work on his 
own. I note that Dr S also reviewed the surveillance  footage, and thought the activities were 
consistent with Mr Bs own reporting and her observations during the assessment.
Having considered the evidence, overall,  I dont  think Aviva has done enough to show  that 
Mr B is suited  to the occupations that have  been  suggested. Ill explain why. 
I think itd be helpful if I set out Mr Bs work history.  After leaving college, Mr B worked  in a 
largely manual  role that was quite specialised and relevant to his qualifications. His employer 
then transferred to another company, and his role changed. Whilst he remained in the same 
specialised industry,  his role wasnt as manual  as it had been previously (apart from walking 
and standing) and I understand it required high levels  of concentration and a good memory. 
During Dr Ms assessment with Mr B, he noted  that Mr B had done some voluntary work  on 
a ship, but this amounted to no more than sanding timbers. He also said that Mr B was able 
to mow the lawn and do some household tasks (such as washing and vacuuming). Dr M also 
recorded that Mr Bs previous interests  included riding and maintaining  a motorcycle. It 
seems that based on these capabilities, Dr M concluded that Mr B was able to carry out a 
manual role. He then suggested some manual roles  that he thought Mr B could do  working  
in construction,  postal  delivery, and gardening and landscaping. 
Ref: DRN39043073Taking into account Mr Bs education, training and experience, Im not persuaded that hes 
suited to the roles  suggested by Dr M. Whilst Mr B had previously worked  in a manual role, 
this was very specialised  and relevant  to his qualifications. In my view, Mr B being able to 
maintain his own motorbike and sanding  some timbers on a voluntary basis  doesnt,  on its 
own, mean that hes suited to a manual role such as construction.  And being able to mow 
the lawn doesnt mean that hes suited to a gardening role. I appreciate he may well be 
capable of such a role (as confirmed by both Dr M and Dr S), but that doesnt necessarily 
mean hes suited to it by way of training, education  or experience,  as set out in the policy. As 
far as Im aware, Mr B doesnt have any construction or gardening experience, and has no 
skills in these areas.  
Dr S has explained why she doesnt  think the role of postal delivery would be suitable  for 
Mr B. Given that shes provided occupational health services  to the Royal  Mail, I think its 
reasonable to accept  her opinion in this respect.  
The remaining  point to consider is whether Mr B is suited to working in the sailing industry. I 
understand Mr B has been sailing for leisure  since childhood. Then  after his accident,  Mr B 
and his wife both completed a five-day sailing  course. This gave Mr B a sailing qualification  
which allows  him to skipper  a yacht  in familiar waters during the day. 
Dr M thought that given Mr Bs sailing qualification  and experience, he could work on boats. 
He also thought Mr B could take bookings for courses within the sailing  industry, or work  
within a sailing retail  shop. 
I think this is quite balanced. On the one hand, we know Mr B can skipper a yacht. However, 
I also note that his wife accompanied him on the course and says she provided him with 
explanations regarding instructions and ensured he had regular rest breaks. And as I 
understand it, the qualification Mr B gained  doesnt allow him to have paid employment in 
the sailing  industry  - he would need further  qualifications in order  to fulfil the legal 
requirements to work on British vessels operating  in the UK. 
I also think its important to note Dr S thought  Mr B wouldnt be able to carry out a role which  
has normal demands on concentration,  memory and focusing. And both Dr M and Dr S 
thought Mr B would  need supervision when  carrying  out a role.
Because of this, on balance, Im not satisfied that Mr B is suited to working on a boat. I 
accept hes able to take out a boat with family and friends present (perhaps including his 
wife who is also able to skipper a boat). But I think theres a fairly significant difference  
between this and working on a boat as an occupation, where I would imagine someone 
would need to have sustained levels of concentration  and focus,  as well as likely need  to 
work with minimal supervision. 
Ref: DRN39043074Furthermore, whilst  I accept Mr B is probably capable of working  in a sailing retail shop, as 
well as able to take bookings for courses within the sailing industry, I dont think hes suited  
to those occupations by way of training, education or experience. I see that Dr M didnt 
actually comment on the suitability of these occupations, he merely said Mr B was capable 
of them.  
Finally, Aviva says that Mr B is already carrying out a suited occupation. Thats because  
Mr B volunteers as a mechanical engineer for a charity. That charity  has provided some  
feedback on Mr Bs work there. Theyve  explained  that Mr B works there one morning a 
week under  supervision.  Theyve said hes not always capable of sustained concentration or 
memory, and sometimes falls short of expectations.  Theyve observed  that after 20-30 
minutes his attention can wander. They thought he appeared to have limited  resources  for 
sustained concentration. 
I dont think that Mr B volunteering for a few hours a week  shows  that hes able to work  on a 
part-time basis  in a mechanical engineering role. I think that to be suited to a role such  as a 
mechanical engineer,  Mr B would need to have good cognitive  function and be capable  of 
sustained concentration and memory.  However, Mr Bs cognitive function  remains impaired, 
which also appears to be evidenced from the charitys feedback on Mr Bs voluntary work 
there.
Overall, given that Im not satisfied Aviva  has shown that Mr B is able to carry out an 
occupation to which hes suited by way of training,  education or experience, it follows  that his 
claim should be reinstated. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd to 
reinstate Mr Bs benefit from the date this terminated. 
Interest should  be added  to the backdated payments at the rate of 8% simple  per annum, 
from the date each payment was due to the date of settlement. * 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3904307