K820x#14complaint
Miss N says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card she took 
out in 2008. The store card was issued through a well-known High  Street retailer  but a 
company called Home  Retail Group (HRG) Insurance  Services  Limited  is responsible for 
answering Miss Ns complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to HRG throughout this final decision.  
background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that the mis-sale 
element shouldnt be upheld. However I can see HRG has paid Miss N back some money 
for part of the commission received from the sale.
Miss N still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and so its been passed  to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns mis-sale complaint.
HRG says its records  indicate the policy was sold over the telephone  after the store  card 
was taken out. The card was taken out in a store setting a few days earlier.  Miss N says she 
wasnt told much about the PPI and doesnt recall  agreeing to it.
Ive got no doubt Miss Ns recollections are genuinely held. However, these events  were  
quite a while ago and we dont have  all the records, such  as the call recording from the sale,  
still available to us.
But weve seen a number  of very similar  sales to this one and weve  spoken at length to the 
company involved  to gain an understanding of the processes that were  generally used. The 
HRG description of how this sale took place is in accordance with my understanding  of how 
many consumers bought  this type of PPI with these store  cards  at around that time.
Whilst theres no recording  of the call, HRG has given us a copy of a script it says its call 
handlers were told to use when selling this type of insurance over the telephone. Based on 
this  and what  we know about  these  sales  I think its more likely Miss N agreed to buy the 
policy during the call and she would have  known the cover  was optional.
My experience is that HRG provided  an advised sale. This means it needed  to ensure the 
policy was suitable  for Miss N. Overall, I think it probably was.
Ive checked that Miss N was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some  of these policies. The cost of the PPI was relatively  
expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection  than most credit  cards.  
For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve  paid off 15% 
Ref: DRN39416642of her outstanding store  card balance each month until she returned to work  or until all the 
balance was returned to zero. The policy also had life cover and because Miss N didnt have 
many work-related benefits, I think the policy was of use.
Miss N told us her husband would  have always stepped in to help if she ever needed 
support, implying  she didnt need  the cover.  Im sure its right that he would have wanted  to 
do that, but this would be dependent  on his ability to pay at any given time and we know  
Miss N had the card for several  years.
HRG also a responsibility  to be clear about  the PPI. I obviously cant  say that it did 
everything right, but as Ive said,  I think  Miss N would have been told about the cover and 
what it did, during the call. I also think she would have  been sent something about the cover 
later.
So I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been suitable in her situation. I think  
this could explain why she probably  agreed  to it during the call.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint and I dont require 
Home Retail  Group Insurance Services Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3941664