K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Crowdcube  Capital Limited  failed to present accurate information about 
an investment opportunity  on its crowdfunding platform  causing him to lose the money  he 
invested.
Background
Crowdcube is an equity-based  crowdfunding platform that promotes investment 
opportunities by way of promotional material. Prospective investors can view information 
about a company and the details of the investment in these promotional materials  on the 
platform before deciding whether to invest.
Mr S invested £1,500  in Company A via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in July 2018. 
The payment was taken in August 2018,  with the shares being  issued in September  2018.  
But by December 2018, Company A went into administration which  meant Mr S lost his 
money, so he complained  to Crowdcube and asked for his money to be refunded.  He said:
he was mis-led by the promotional material of Company A as it was not disclosed 
that the future of the company was dependent upon  a promised future  funding  from 
one of its partners,  and it wasnt made clear in the promotion  that this funding was 
not guaranteed, so should it not be forthcoming then the company would likely fail; 
the promotion stated that Company A had completed a merger  which  wouldve 
attracted additional investment but this in fact did not occur, so the promotion was 
misleading; 
after the fundraising round had closed, he was sent an email confirming his 
investment commitment.  However,  once  the cooling off deadline date had passed, he 
received another email which set out that the valuation of Company A had dropped 
by about half the original  value  and was given the option to opt-out by a new cooling  
off deadline date. He says he took little notice of this second email at the time, as I 
thought it was merely  a confirmation of the earlier one. And as he did not exercise 
the opt-out  option, his investment became binding in line with the second email.  He 
says this was unfair as the change in valuation was a significant change  in material  
to the original promotion so it should have been properly published and explained  to 
investors. He says investors shouldve been required to actively  opt-in  to the new 
agreement rather than opt-out;
he would  not have invested  in Company  A if Crowdcube had provided clear,  fair and 
not misleading information  in the promotion  as it was required to do under the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  rules.    
Crowdcube responded to Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold  it. It said the promotional 
material was not misleading as it was subject to its standard due diligence  checks  which was 
verified with evidence before being approved. Crowdcube also said it received independent  
confirmation that the merger had been completed  and fillings confirming the merger took 
place were available on Companies House. It said by providing a second cooling off period  
when the valuation of Company A changed,  it gave investors a further opportunity to 
withdraw. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2021   I didnt  uphold the complaint. This is what I 
said:
Ref: DRN37411942Ive considered Crowdcubes role and relationship it has with investors,  as well the 
regulatory and legal  framework involved.  To determine this complaint,  its important  to 
understand the role and relationship Crowdcube has with Mr S as an investor. 
Crowdcubes investor terms sets out the terms and conditions forming the basis of this 
relationship. These explain: 
8.2. The Investor  acknowledges  that Crowdcube  approves each Pitch  as a financial 
promotion but does not provide  advice or any form of recommendation regarding the 
suitability or quality of the Investment  
8.3. The Investor acknowledges and accepts  that the Website includes a forum which is 
an integral part of an Investees  Pitch which is intended as a service to Investees to put them  
in contact with Investors, and thus that Crowdcubes investigation of the Investees and the 
content of their Pitches is limited, and accordingly Crowdcube makes  no warranty  or 
representation and assumes no liability in respect of the Investees or the content of their 
Pitches. The Investor must make his/her own assessment of the viability,  accuracy and 
prospects of the Investees, their Pitches,  and any relevant investment propositions and 
should consult  his/her  professional advisers should  he/she require any assistance in making  
such an assessment or should the Investor require any services  whatsoever in connection 
with Crowdcube. In particular, the attention of the Investors is drawn to the disclaimer, risk 
warning and regulatory notice on each Pitch.  
Its clear from the investor terms that Crowdcube  provides potential investors with different 
investment opportunities by way of pitches, but importantly, it gives no advice or 
recommendations to its investors. Ultimately, the decision to invest is made at the investors 
own risk and Crowdcube encourages them to do their own research. This is also explained 
in Crowdcubes  due diligence charter:  
Crowdcube does not endorse any of the businesses raising finance on the platform, nor do 
we provide investment advice of any description,  so before deciding to invest we strongly  
encourage all Crowdcube members to undertake their own research  and if there is 
uncertainty, to receive independent advice before investing. 
Crowdcube also has risk warnings on its platform to ensure  investors are made aware of the 
risks involved in investing via crowdfunding. The following  risk warning was provided on 
Crowdcubes platform at the time Mr S invested in Company A: 
Investing in start-ups and early stage businesses  involves  risks,  including illiquidity, lack of 
dividends, loss of investment  and dilution,  and it should be done only as part of a diversified 
portfolio.
This also included  a link to read Crowdcubes full risk warning which provided more detail of 
the risks involved. 
While Ive considered  the investor terms which say Crowdcubes investigation is limited  and 
that it doesnt endorse any pitches, Ive also taken into account the wider obligations on 
Crowdcube. 
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised 
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms  are 
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook  of rules and guidance.
Ref: DRN37411943The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  1.1.1G, says The Principles apply  in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles  here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients,  
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.  
Was Crowdcubes promotional material about  Company A presented  as clear, fair and not 
misleading information?  
So before approving Company As promotional material,  Crowdcube  needed  to satisfy itself 
that the material itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied 
that by approving the promotion  and allowing its customers to invest in Company  A would 
continue to be acting  in its clients best interests.  
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature  of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material itself,  Crowdcube  would need  to carry out reasonable 
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what  they might  be in any given 
case, is something which is very much left to each provider  to determine and would vary 
according to the particular  circumstances. 
The main  point of contention regarding the pitch is the merger.  The pitch  stated that: 
The merger deal, completed in May 2018,  attracted an additional £6m from existing 
shareholders plus £9m in media  for equity across  Sky and Channel  5, and a multi-million  
pound media spend  with Channel 4 in return for a stake in the combined business.
When considering  this issue, Ive taken into account that the FCA said the following in its 
July 2018 consultation paper on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based 
crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle  6 (PRIN 2.1.1R)  and the clients  best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough  due diligence to satisfy  itself on the essential  
information on which any communication  or promotion is based.
Ref: DRN37411944Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November 
2019 which explained that firms should:  
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion before 
approving its content for communication by an unauthorised  person.  The extent and 
substance of the analysis  and diligence needed  to be able confirm that a promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case  and will depend on the form and content 
of the promotion.  When  assessing whether a promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a 
firm may need to consider (among other things): 
The authenticity  of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
The FCAs  consultation paper and guidance  were issued around the time of, and subsequent to Mr S 
investment respectively. But I consider their content has relevance when  thinking about Crowdcubes  
responsibilities. I say this because they clearly set out the FCAs view on good practice and 
compliance with existing rules  and principles,  applicable  to Crowdcube  at the time it promoted the 
investment into company  A.
As part of its due diligence, Crowdcube  said it checked Companies  House records  which 
confirmed the merger had completed prior to promoting the investment. It also said there  
were several news articles available at that time which cited  the completed  merger. 
Crowdcube explains in its due diligence charter that it, relies on third-party tools to conduct  
some due diligence. 
Mr S has made detailed submissions relating to the Company As merger with two other 
companies detailed  in the pitch. I have considered everything he has said about this issue. 
The main  point Mr S makes is he believes that the merger hadnt  completed before 
Crowdcube promoted the investment stating  that it had - and it either knew  or ought to have  
known this. And this was misleading. 
Mr S refers  to the administrators report which sets outs the course of events as follows:
2.2: The Company acquired and in May 2018 following these acquisitions
2.3: The Company began the process of merging its operations but  this process was 
incomplete
Mr S says the use of the term merger is important because this should have led to future  
funding pledges being fulfilled which didnt happen  and had he known the merger  hadnt 
yet completed he wouldnt  have invested.  
Taking everything into account,  the set up was that Company  A and the two other  
companies would be coming together. I dont  think its necessary for me to decide which 
legal term, acquisition or merger applied in the circumstances of this case. I say this 
because Ive gone on to consider what Mr S says he wouldve done  if by his understanding  
he knew the merger was incomplete  at the time he invested. 
Crowdcube sent Mr S a second cooling off email  around mid-August 2018  after the 
fundraising round had closed. This gave Mr S an opportunity  to withdraw his investment. 
Having reviewed this email, it stated the following:
Ref: DRN37411945As we are in a transition phase following our recent  merger with,  which  has not yet been 
fully integrated, and acknowledging the future funding the business will require which  we do 
not wish to disadvantage you on should this be raised at a lower  price.
I think it is apparent from the above description  that the full integration of the companies had 
not yet completed. Mr S was given an opportunity at this point to decide not to go ahead with 
the investment.  So in my view, he was put on notice and could have withdrawn  if this 
information changed the attractiveness of the investment  opportunity. But I havent seen any 
evidence of Mr S withdrawing his investment  and as such his investment went  ahead. I 
appreciate that Mr S says he took little notice of this second email at the time,  but Im 
satisfied the information was sufficient  to make him aware of the position of the merger   or 
at least question the position  and back out had he wanted to. I will cover  the further issues  
Mr S raises  about this email in more detail later in my findings.  
Turning to Company  As financial information included in the pitch. A careful distinction 
needs to be made between  the overall  financial  position of Company A and the statements 
made in the pitch  which relate to funding. Crowdcube explains in its due diligence charter 
that it doesnt review  the ongoing funding requirements of companies that raise investment 
through the platform: 
The following information,  unless specifically mentioned in the pitch, is not always  reviewed 
as part of our standard due diligence, so investors  should assume  that the following have not 
been checked: 
cash position and cash burn of the company; 
The pitch  didnt include any information about Company As cash position or cash burn and 
as such, Im not persuaded  Crowdcube was under  any obligation to ensure Company A was 
profitable. So if the absence of this information caused Mr S any concerns, I would have 
expected him to have conducted his own enquiries before proceeding with the investment. 
Crowdcube did make it clear in its risk warnings that investing in the businesses listed on the 
platform involves risks, and part of that risk is that businesses involved are often those which  
are unable to get bank  or traditional forms of funding and so may not be profitable and a 
number of them fail.
The pitch  did, however,  mention  existing investments in advertising, as well other sources  of 
funding. So Crowdcube needed to ensure this information was fair, clear and not misleading. 
Crowdcube explained that the £9 million in equity  for media and the additional multi-million 
pound media spend  was in relation to potential advertising Company A would benefit  from. 
But as it went into administration soon  after the fundraising round closed it was unable  to 
use this. 
Crowdcube also provided evidence showing Company A had benefitted  from £5.5 million  of 
investment prior to the promotion. This was in the form of convertible loan notes and 
debentures from existing  shareholders, as well as a £500,000 loan facility from Company As 
bank. Whilst I appreciate the pitch didnt make the distinction that a proportion of the 
investment was a loan facility, on balance, I dont think  it would have affected Mr Ss 
decision to invest.  I say this as it represented a relatively small proportion of the overall  
finances and ultimately,  this money was available  to the company albeit by means of a loan 
facility from a bank  rather  than through shareholder  investment.  Its also important to point 
out this information was included in the legal  review document Crowdcube emailed to Mr S 
Ref: DRN37411946in July 2018. Therefore, if he had concerns about this, I would have expected him to have 
raised this with Crowdcube  before  investing. 
As such,  Im satisfied Crowdcube met its requirements when promoting the investment 
opportunity.
Was it fair for Crowdcube to allow Mr S investment to proceed despite the change in 
Company As valuation? 
Crowdcube sent Mr S an email in July 2018  confirming  the fundraising round had closed and 
giving him an opportunity  to review his investment before  proceeding. This email asked Mr S 
to review several documents, including Company As articles of association  and a legal 
review document.  It gave  Mr S a deadline  of early August  2018  for him to let Crowdcube 
know if he didnt want to proceed with his investment and failure  to do so would result in it 
become legally binding. 
Mr S didnt contact Crowdcube and so once the deadline passed,  he believed  his investment 
had proceeded  and had become  legally binding. However, Crowdcube then sent Mr S 
another email  around mid-August 2018.  This email set out that since  the fundraising round 
had closed, Company  As valuation had reduced  from £104,000,000 to £51,800,000 and as 
a result Mr S would receive twice as many  shares. This email also included an updated legal 
review document  to reflect  these changes. A new deadline was given and as Mr S didnt 
contact Crowdcube his investment proceeded after this date. 
Mr S feels  strongly about Crowdcube unfairly allowing the investment to proceed  when there  
had been a material change in facts  from the original promotional material.  He also feels 
strongly that after the deadline date to the first email  had passed his investment became 
legally binding in line with that email  and Crowdcube should not be able to alter this. 
Crowdcubes investor terms sets out that the completion of the investment is subject to 
completion conditions:  
5.3. If a Pitch is successful, the Investee  will instruct  Crowdcube to circulate a copy  of the 
Investees proposed  Articles of Association, bond  instrument or fund documentation  to each 
Investor by email, and to request  that each Investor inform Crowdcube  by email within the 
time period specified in the email if they no longer  wish to proceed with the Investment. If 
Crowdcube receives no response  from the Investor within the specified  time period, the 
Investor will be deemed to have confirmed his/her order  and the Investee will accept his/her 
order and such order will become a legally binding contract to invest between the Investee 
and the Investor  upon expiry of the time period  set out in the email,  with completion of the 
investment conditional upon the Investee receiving payment from the Investor  and subject to 
the completion conditions set out in clause 5.5 below. The Investor agrees that the contract 
to invest between the Investee  and Investor formed in accordance  with this clause shall 
incorporate any warranties given  in the legal review document  (the "Legal Review") attached 
to the email sent by Crowdcube to each Investor  pursuant to this clause (the "Warranties"),  
subject to the terms and limitations of such Warranties as set out in the Legal Review. 
Ref: DRN37411947These completion conditions included: 
5.5.2 the Warranties being true and there  being  no actual or contemplated material change 
to the Investee  or the investment round, either before or after the expiry of the email set out 
in clause 5.3 above and prior to the issue of shares to Investors (whether change is material  
to be determined by Crowdcube in its sole discretion); 
The investor terms go on to explain the action Crowdcube can take when a condition isnt 
met: 
5.6 Crowdcube (and not the Investee or Investor) has absolute discretion to determine 
whether the conditions set out in clause 5.5 above  are satisfied at any time during the 
completions process prior to the issue of shares to Investor by Investee. If Crowdcube  
determines a condition is not satisfied,  Crowdcube may in its absolute  discretion: 
5.6.1 recirculate the email  to Investors as set out in clause  5.3 above,  to include, as required 
by Crowdcube, the Articles of Association  of the Investee alongside  a disclosure statement 
detailing the failed condition. This email shall also request that each Investor  inform  
Crowdcube by email within the time specified  in the email if they no longer wish to proceed 
with the Investment.  If Crowdcube receives no response from the Investor  within the stated  
time period, the Investor will be deemed to have confirmed his order 
The original  legal review  document emailed to Mr S in July 2018 explained under the 
warranties section that the pre-money valuation used for calculating the share price would 
be £103,000,000 (rather than £104,000,000 shown  on the pitch). Crowdcube  was then 
informed by Company  A that the valuation had been  reduced by over half. I consider this to 
be a material change  and the investor terms make it clear  that any material change should 
be disclosed  to investors before the investment proceeds  regardless of whether the 
previous deadline has expired. So, by making Mr S aware of this and providing a further 
deadline to proceed, I think Crowdcube  acted  fairly  and in-line with its investor terms. 
Its also important to note that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper 
on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:  
We expect platforms to complete any necessary due diligence  before they market  
investments to investors. In addition, the platform may become aware of new information 
that materially affects the borrowers credit risk after it has finalised its due diligence  process, 
but before  money has been  irrevocably  committed by investors. In this case  and under the 
Principles of Businesses (PRIN), and the clients best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R), we 
expect platforms to give investors the option not to proceed with the investment, as the 
conditions they based their investment  decision on have changed. 
Mr S says he didnt pay too much  attention  to the second email. But Im satisfied it was 
made clear by Crowdcube that this was something  new that it was contacting investors  
about and not something  that looked like a repeat of previous information. Ive also taken 
into account there was a responsibility on Mr S to read and check any correspondence he 
received regarding his investment. If he had done  so, he would have had an opportunity  to 
not proceed with the investment. I note Mr S says he shouldve been asked to actively opt-in 
rather than opt-out but as the consultation paper sets out, Crowdcube must  provide investors  
with an opportunity to not proceed and in Mr S case, I can see this email does give him an 
option to withdraw.  Ive also not seen any evidence to show Mr S raised any concerns with 
Crowdcube about the valuation before the second  deadline  had expired  or at any time prior 
Ref: DRN37411948to Company A going  into administration. So, on this basis,  Im satisfied  it was fair for 
Crowdcube to allow  Mr S investment to proceed  despite the change in Company As 
valuation.
Mr S responded and provided further  submission for me to consider. In summary he said 
The Citizens Advice position is clear in that misleading selling can include things like 
giving wrong information, exaggerating things, keeping important information about  
the product or service  hidden  or obscured, and importantly, even if these things were 
done by mistake,  or because  they [the selling firm] was misinformed, it still counts [in 
law] as misleading selling.
It appears that the ombudsman service is applying a different criterion than Citizens  
Advice and the law in general.
He recently invested via Crowdcube in a new investment. Crowdcube  subsequently 
wrote to him as it became  aware of an 'opportunity  for a misunderstanding'  in that 
investment. It not only notified  him of the issue, but also asked him to confirm 
whether he wanted to continue with the investment or not before the fundraise is 
finalised. He believes  this is the process  that should have  been  used in the promotion 
subject to this complaint  - where investors should have actively needed  to confirm 
their investment in light of the changes, and zero action results in a cancelled  
investment.
Crowdcube didnt  provide  any further  information for me to consider.  But it did comment  on 
the information Mr S provided about  the new investment he described. It said it hadnt 
changed its process and the situation  wasnt comparable with the investment  subject to this 
complaint. The opt in process that was agreed on the recent investment was part of a 
discussion with the regulator about  that particular promotion  so an opt-in process  rather  
than its standard  process was decided due to exceptional circumstances.
My findings  
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  found reason to 
change the findings from those set out in my provisional findings.
But I will provide further explanation on the points Mr S has raised.  
Ive considered the comments Mr S has made about  the apparent difference  in approach  Ive 
taken with that of the information  hes received Citizens Advice. The remits and functions of 
the two organisations are different, so it is difficult to make a direct  comparison. I think it 
would be helpful  to set out the position for our service. The Financial  Ombudsman  Services  
remit and our powers are set out in Part XVI and Schedule 17 of the Financial  Services  and 
Markets Act 2000. As part of that we take into account the law, codes  and good  practice  that 
applied at the time of the event being complained about. We also follow the rules in the 
Financial Conduct  Authority's  (FCA)  handbook. This is the approach Ive taken in deciding  
this complaint. 
Within my provisional decision I set out the relevant rules and regulations  Crowdcube are 
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook  of rules and guidance. To reiterate the 
most relevant are:
Ref: DRN37411949The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  1.1.1G, says The Principles apply  in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles  here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients,  
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.  
When deciding this complaint, I havent  found reason to believe that Crowdcube has failed to 
meet its obligations in this respect. 
Ive also considered the points Mr S raises about  the recent investment he made  on 
Crowdcubes platform and that this required  him to opt in to the investment after further 
information was communicated. I understand the point  he is making  and why he is drawing 
comparison to the situation with this promotion.  I dont have full details  of the recent  
investment and I accept  there will be detail  thats  different between the promotions. But in 
any case, Ive not found reason to change my thinking on the specific  issues  relating to the 
promotion of the investment subject to this complaint. As I previously explained the FCA said 
in its July 2018 consultation paper it expects platforms - under the Principles of Businesses 
(PRIN), and the clients best interests  rule (COBS  2.1.1R) - to give investors the option not 
to proceed with the investment where  the conditions they based  their investment decision on 
have changed.  While  I understand that Mr S believes this is better  achieved  through 
providing an opt in process, this isnt a specific requirement. I think the information provided 
to Mr S with this promotion was clear enough  for him to understand he could withdraw from 
the investment  had he wanted to. So, I havent  found that Crowdcube did something  wrong  
in the process  it followed.   
I appreciate that Mr S has strong  feelings  that Crowdcude provided misleading information to 
him when  promoting  the investment opportunity  on its platform. But as I explained in my 
provisional findings, when considering all of the information that was provided to him - before 
he was committed to invest, I dont think there is sufficient evidence  to say that Crowdcude  
have failed to meet his information  needs.  
My final decision  
Ref: DRN374119410I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment for Mr S, but for the reasons 
set out above   and those in my provisional decision, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Daniel Little 
Ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3741194