K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Profile Financial Solutions  Limited (Profile) is responsible (or partly responsible) 
for a delay in cancelling,  and then failure  to cancel, his pension  transfer.
background
A chronology of key events in 2018 is as follows:
In August, subsequent to the review (of his pension arrangements) that he 
requested, Profile issued its recommendation to Mr T. It advised him to transfer  (and 
consolidate) his pre-existing pension plans from Royal London (RL)  and Scottish 
Widows (SW) to an Aegon One Retirement pension plan (the Aegon  pension). The 
associated fee arrangement was  an initial advice  fee of 2.95% of the total transfer 
value; an ongoing Annual Management Charge  (AMC) of 0.45% of the Aegon  
pensions balance;  and an Ongoing Service Charge (OSC) of 0.6% of the Aegon  
pensions value.  Profiles recommendation to Mr T was issued within  a pack  that 
included the recommendation report, a benefits  illustration for the Aegon  pension and 
a Key Features  Document (KFD) for the Aegon pension. The concluding section in 
the recommendation report addressed  Mr Ts cancellation rights by signposting him 
to the Aegon pensions KFD for the relevant details and by giving him notice that his 
 existing  provider may refuse to accept  the money back  in to the original Pension 
Plan. Aegons letter of 8 August also confirmed his right to cancel  within 30 days of 
the transfer, with the requirements that the cancellation instruction be in writing and 
that it refers to the relevant details  of the cancellation.
The transfer appears to have been completed  by 21 August. On 22 August Mr T 
telephoned Profile and confirmed  his decision to cancel the transfer. His adviser  was 
unavailable, and he was promised  a return call. Having not received that call, Mr T 
telephoned Profile again on 31 August and this time Profile  actioned  his cancellation 
instruction through an online transfer facility.  Aegon  responded  on the same date and 
asked for Mr Ts written cancellation  instruction.     
On 3 September Profile  sent Mr T the requisite transfer form, for his completion, 
signature and return. Later in September Profile refunded   to the Aegon pension   
the initial advice  fee it had collected.
On 4 October Mr T returned the signed cancellation form to Profile.  However,  
difficulties then arose in the cancellation  pursuit  in terms of reinstating the previous 
plans with RL and SW  because  the form had been returned/lodged outside the 30 
days cooling off period. Thereafter, all parties  including the transferors, transferee, 
Profile and Mr T  were engaged, to varying degrees,  in trying to address the 
problem.    
In 2019, the parties continued to engage  to varying degrees   in trying  to address the 
transfer cancellation problem. Part of the problem was a reduction in the value of the Aegon 
pension, due to market movements, which conflicted  with the notion of a cancellation and a 
reinstatement of the previous pensions  at their transfer values. Mr T then appointed a new 
adviser and by July 2019 he and his new adviser  successfully  completed a further transfer  
the transfer of the Aegon pension, with an increase in value (also due to market  
movements), to a new plan with Prudential. He complained about the matter in August 2019.
Ref: DRN32993712Profiles position on the complaint is mainly as follows:
The transfer was suitable for and agreed by Mr T.
The transfer cancellation problem stemmed from Mr Ts late return  of the signed 
cancellation form  which was returned  outside  the 30 days  cooling off period that he 
was fully aware of. He was also fully aware that problems in reinstating his previous 
pension plans could  arise as a result  of that. Profile conveyed  his cancellation 
instruction to Aegon on 31 August 2018, and that was within the cooling  off period, so 
it does not hold or share any responsibility for breaching the cooling off period.
Thereafter  and citing supporting evidence within  its chronology of events and in 
associated documentation  it deployed its best efforts to help resolve the matter. It 
even continued  to help after Mr T terminated its service and moved to a new adviser.
On 14 January 2019 it obtained agreement from RL to allow reinstatement  of Mr Ts 
previous RL pension plan only if the full initial total transfer value could be transferred 
back within the following 30 days. However, this could not be progressed  because 
the Aegon pension had lost value and was less than the initial transfer  value(s)  from 
the RL pension plans.   
Mr T had the alternative  option  of contacting RL and SW to set up new pension  
plans, in order to progress the matter.  He was provided with instructions  on how to 
achieve this, but he did not act upon them.
Mr T claims that his pension contributions were hindered  by the matter, however 
there is evidence from Aegon that he continued  to pay contributions in September, 
October and November 2018.  He then stopped and resumed when he transferred the 
Aegon pension  to Prudential in July 2019.  Throughout the matter,  he could have 
made additional contributions if he wished, by contacting Aegon directly.
It has already refunded the initial advice fee it charged, and it has confirmed to this 
service that its offer to also refund the total OSC payment it received still stands.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and concluded that it should  not be 
upheld. He reached this conclusion for reasons broadly similar to those given by Profile.  
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusion. He notes that Profile initially  sought to 
deny his right to cancellation during the cooling off period  before  correcting  itself  and 
says this does  not appear to have been addressed. He argues that thereafter the 
cancellation pursuit became a race behind  the clock, compounded by the fact that 
reinstatement of his original policies could not happen unless  the money returned matched 
the initial transfer values. He maintains that, overall, Profiles  communication  (especially with 
him) and effort were  poor and lacking, and that this contributed to the problem.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32993713A number  of different matters have been addressed or commented upon within this 
complaint. These range from the suitability of the transfer advice, at the outset, to the 
transfer of the Aegon pension to Prudential, at the end  and, in between, these include the 
events during and after the 30 days cooling off period. I have also paid due regard to the 
complaint as presented by Mr T, to his submissions about the complaint  and to the 
information (and documents) provided  to this service about the complaint. 
Having considered all the above  I conclude that the key issue  to determine remains that of 
the transfer cancellation problem (its cause and mitigation of its effect(s)).
In my view, suitability of the transfer  advice  is relevant only to Mr Ts cancellation  instruction. 
It is not his claim that the advice in 2018 was unsuitable and evidence  confirms that he 
sought and was given the pension review he wanted  at the time. Evidence also confirms that 
his decision to cancel  the transfer was unrelated to suitability (or otherwise) of the transfer 
advice. It appears to have  been  his personal decision to withdraw  from the transfer he had 
previously agreed,  and available  information suggest this was borne from considerations he 
had with a friend which persuaded him to withdraw. Beyond  this, suitability of the transfer 
advice does not appear to be an issue. Perhaps for the sake of completeness, I confirm  that 
nothing particularly notable, in the context of a review of pension  arrangements, stands out 
from the advice  as being unsuitable.
I am not persuaded that Mr Ts decision to transfer the Aegon pension  to Prudential  is 
meaningful to the complaint. I appreciate that this, beginning  with his appointment of a new 
adviser, happened around the time that a resolution  to the transfer  cancellation problem was 
still being considered and/or explored. However, I am mindful that he retained,  at all times, 
the right (and discretion)  to change advisers if he wished  and to review and change his mind 
about the destination for his pension if he wished. If, as it appears,  he took these steps 
because he was unhappy with Profile and with the lack of a resolution to the transfer 
cancellation problem  then that relates to the events during and after the 30 days  cooling off 
period which, as I address next, I consider to be most relevant.
Profile is correct. The root cause of the transfer  cancellation  problem  was Mr Ts delay in 
returning the signed transfer form. I consider this a matter of fact. 
This service has been given a 2020 version  of the KFD for the Aegon pension, which says 
the 30 days cooling off period began from the latter of either when confirmation of an 
application is received or when the Aegon One Retirement documentation and contract note 
are received   receipt calculated as two days after postage. I consider this reliable evidence 
of what the 2018 version of the KFD probably said about the cooling off period. 
The confirmation of application was sent to Mr T on 8 August 2018 and we have been  given  
a copy of the account documentation and contract note sent to him, dated  24 August 2018  
so the latter  applies  and the 30 days cooling off period appears to have started, at the latest, 
on 26 August 2018 (two days after postage on 24 August) and ended, at the latest,  on 25 
September 2018.
To his credit,  Mr T gave clear and early cancellation notice to Profile on 22 August 2018. 
Profile was wrong to have  failed, initially,  to react to that notice and wrong to have delayed, 
initially, in doing  so  which is what prompted Mr T to chase for action nine days  after his first 
contact. However, no consequences  appear  to have resulted from Profiles  delay. 31 August 
2018 was the date on which Mr T chased for action; it was the date on which  Profile  
responded to the matter, actioned the cancellation  instruction  and conveyed  it to Aegon;  it 
Ref: DRN32993714was the date on which Aegon appears  to have responded to Profile  and asked for Mr Ts 
written cancellation  instruction;  and it was a date well within,  and in the early  stage(s) of, the 
30 days cooling off period. I note Mr Ts reference to Profile initially denying  his right to the 
cooling off period, but he also says this was then corrected. In the above context, there is 
nothing to say the cooling  off period was unavailable to him.
Profile says it conveyed  Aegons request to Mr T on 3 September  2018 and sent him the 
requisite transfer  form on the same date. I have not seen evidence that, on balance,  calls 
this into question. 3 September 2018  was also a date within,  and still arguably in the early  
stage(s) of, the 30 days  cooling off period. Mr Ts signed transfer form was not returned until 
4 October 2018, nine days  after the cooling off period  had ended. The undisputable 
conclusion that follows is that this late return caused the transfer cancellation  problem. At 
this point, reinstatement of the previous pension plans at transfer  values was no longer an 
entitlement and the option available to him was to return, with lower  or fluctuating  pension  
values, to his previous  pension providers as new business. 
Profile and Mr T appear to have sought  a way to achieve reinstatements and to avoid the 
new business option, but I also acknowledge  Profiles  point that the latter was something   
Mr T could  have progressed in order to mitigate  the matter. It is fair to say Mr T should have 
mitigated the problem  that arose directly from his late transfer form submission. It is also fair 
to note the concern he would likely have held about  crystalizing a loss of value in his 
pension, but without a viable alternative  I agree with Profiles point that the new business  
option was worthy of consideration  and some effort on his part.
I understand Mr Ts reference  to a lack of communication  from Profile. Within evidence  of the 
chronology of events,  there are indeed some  examples of contacts from him to Profile,  to 
which Profile either failed  to respond or delayed in responding. A prime  example is his initial 
contact on 22 August 2018. However, I am satisfied that Profiles  refund of the initial advice 
fee and its live offer to refund the total OSC  payment  it received  means  it would have earned 
nothing from its service  to Mr T. In this context, the matter of poor communication  (which sits 
within Profiles overall service to Mr T) has essentially been  resolved by these refunds. I do 
not consider the matter relevant beyond this finding. Despite any poor or failed 
communication by Profile, the facts remain that the failure to trigger the transfer  cancellation 
during the cooling off period (and achieve  reinstatements to the previous pension  plans)  was 
caused by Mr Ts delay in returning the signed  transfer form, and Profile  has no share  of 
responsibility for that.
Available evidence  suggests that Profile made  some  reasonable efforts to assist Mr T in 
mitigating the matter  after the cooling off period had been missed. He then appointed a new 
adviser and was fortunate enough to achieve a transfer from the Aegon pension  to 
Prudential, without a loss of pension value  but with a gain in pension  value.
On the matter of financial loss, reference  has been  made to missed  pension contributions.  
Primarily, Profile is not responsible for the transfer  cancellation problem so it is somewhat 
implicit that it would  not be responsible for any financial loss arising  directly  from that. 
Furthermore, and as Profile says, this issue does not appear  to have been a consequence  of 
the transfer cancellation problem or anything done (or not done) by Profile.  Mr T continued to 
make contributions between September and November  2018. Evidence shows this, and it 
was his decision to stop those contributions thereafter and to resume them in July 2019.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
Ref: DRN32993715my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3299371