K820x#14complaint
Mr A is complaining about the value esure Insurance  Limited (esure)  has put on his car after 
he made a claim on his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr As car was damaged in an accident so he contacted esure  to claim on his car insurance 
policy. esure declared Mr As car a total loss and it said it would settle the claim by paying 
him the market value  of the car less his excess. It valued his car at £2,010. It assessed this 
by reviewing three main  trade guides which  it said gave valuations  between £2,290 and 
£2,420. But it said that Mr As car had some  pre-accident damage which it was entitled to 
take into account. It estimated the total cost of repairing it all to be £1,122.96. Taking this 
into account, it deducted £410 from the value.
Mr A didnt accept the valuation as he says he couldnt replace the car for this amount and 
was looking to receive between £3,000 and £4,000. He says the car was in excellent  
condition before the accident. So he thinks it was unfair for esure to take money off the 
valuation for pre-accident damage. He wanted esure  to either repair  the car or give him an 
amount that will enable him to fairly  replace it.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought it was fair for esure to use the trade  
valuations to assess the value of Mr As car. And he thought esure had assessed that fairly. 
He also thought the amount deducted for pre-accident damage was fair. He said hed 
reviewed photos  of the damage esure had provided  and he thought  it had only taken into 
account damage that you wouldnt expect  to see on a car of the age of Mr As.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He maintained that he cant replace the car for the 
amount that esure was offering. He also thought that the damage esure was deducting for 
was likely to have occurred in the accident. He also said any damage that may have been 
there was consistent  with what youd expect on a 12 year old car. In particular he was 
unhappy esure had deducted for damage  to the alloy wheel as hed replaced  it since he 
bought the car, but still had the original. 
The investigator still thought it was fair for esure  to take into account  the damage  it did as he 
was satisfied it was likely  to have been  there before the accident. Mr A didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr A is unhappy with esures  valuation of his car. I should first state that this services role 
isnt to work  out exactly what  the value of an individual  vehicle is. We look at whether the 
insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. Under the 
terms of Mr As policy, esure has to pay him the market value of the car, less his excess.
The market  value is defined as the amount you could  reasonably  have expected to sell your 
car for on the open  market immediately before your accident or loss.
Ref: DRN31574122esure has valued Mr As car at £2,010. As set out in the terms of the policy  its valued  this by 
reviewing the main industry  valuation guides  and taking into account the damage it said was 
on his car before the accident. Mr A doesnt think this valuation  is fair because he says he 
cant replace his car for the amount esure  has valued it as.
Its standard practice  for the industry to use trade  valuation guides to work  out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuations the guides 
give are based on the advertised prices of similar  cars with similar  age and mileage for sale 
at the time of loss. Ive looked  at esures  base valuation (before deducting for damage) of 
Mr As car and I think  its fair. Ive looked at the guides and they give a valuation range  of 
between £2,280 and £2,420. So I think esures  base  valuation  of £2.420 for the car was fair 
as its used the highest of the guide  values. 
Ive taken Mr A comments into account  that he says there wasnt any damage to the car 
before the accident, other than what one would ordinarily expect on a 12 year old car. And 
he says any damage thats  there must have been  caused by the accident. But I dont  agree. 
Ive looked at the photos and there is damage that Im satisfied was present before the 
accident. 
Ive looked closely  at what esure  damage esure has deducted for. And Im satisfied that 
there was a significant amount of scratches over the car and also paint lacquer wearing 
away on the left hand door and right wing. I also think the alloy wheels were in poor 
condition, but I note Mr As comments in this respect. I think  the majority of damage esure  
has highlighted is in line with what  one would ordinarily expect for a 12 year old car. But 
taking into account  all the damage over the car, I dont think it was unfair  for esure  to have 
made a deduction  for pre-accident damage. 
Ive weighed the amount esure  deducted against  the fact that its based the cars valuation  
on the highest figure set by the guides. And taking all this into account, I dont think  esures 
valuation is unreasonable in the specific circumstances  of this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3157412