K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that TSB Bank plc persuaded her to take out a credit card when she didnt 
want one. Shes now struggling financially.
background
Mrs H says she visited her local branch in March  2013 to open  a bank account. She tells us 
the advisor pressurised her into having  a credit card even  though  she repeatedly  said she 
didnt want it. She even told the advisor shed been made redundant and didnt have  any 
income. She said shes used the card during periods of deep depression but hasnt  used it 
since 2017. For the last 11 months shes been making regular  payments  but TSB has 
increased the limit twice.  And it hasnt  helped her when she told it she was in difficulties 
several times when  she visited her branch. She said the only advice she got was to consider 
mortgaging her home. She asked if she could switch her credit card to a zero or low interest 
rate and was told that if TSB had a lower rate it would phone  her. She said she first wrote to 
TSB in November 2018 when she had support to do so.
TSB said Mrs H took out the credit card on 8 March 2013 the same  day she opened a bank 
account. Due to the passage  of time TSB couldnt  retrieve the original  applications or contact 
its staff member but said there was a note on its records  to say Mrs H thought  the card was 
a good idea. It said that at the time there wasnt any adverse information recorded against  
Mrs H. It automatically  increased the credit  limit in September 2013 to £2,250. There were 
further increases  but it couldnt say whether  they were done  automatically or whether Mrs H 
asked for them.  It said it didnt have any record of Mrs H contacting it to say she was in 
financial difficulties. It said this would  have been logged onto the system. And shes  always 
made payments exceeding her minimum monthly  payments and has never exceeded the 
agreed credit limit. So it said there were no arrears on the account. In those circumstances 
the only advice  it could give her would be to limit any non essential spending and to consider 
contacting a debt management  charity.
Our investigator didnt  think TSB had done anything wrong when it gave Mrs H a credit card. 
And he couldnt see any mention of financial difficulty  on TSBs records.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this. She said the staff at her branch didnt record her visits where 
she told them she was having  financial  difficulties.  And its records were wrong about her 
saying the card was a good idea. She said shed had help from her family making the 
monthly repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about  Mrs Hs ill health. And I know  she will be disappointed  with my 
decision. But for the reasons Im about to give,  I dont  think  TSB has done anything wrong.
Mrs H was anxious that all the issues she raised  in her original letter should be fully 
considered. I can assure her that I have  done that. And I have looked  at all the additional 
points shes made. 
Ref: DRN36141872Mrs H went to her local branch on 8 March  2013 to open a sole account.  At the same time 
TSB agreed  to give Mrs H a credit  card account. Before it did that TSB had a responsibility to 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H would be able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable  way. The checks a lender should carry out should be 
proportionate to the size of the lending and the cost of repayment.  But we cant say that a 
lender shouldve done any particular  check. Based on the information  available  to it, Mrs Hs 
applications met TSBs lending criteria. Banks are entitled to set that criteria using commercial 
judgement and I cant find that TSB acted unreasonably  in applying it to Mrs Hs application. 
But the next question I have to ask is whether it was fair for TSB to give Mrs H a credit card 
based on what it knew about her through those  checks?  And was it fair to increase the limit? 
In other  words, was Mrs H able to afford  the credit in a sustainable way?
Mrs H says her credit  card was unaffordable  and she didnt want  it. TSBs  records say that 
Mrs H thought the card was a good  idea.  She says thats not right.  I cant  make any finding 
about what was said at that time as I wasnt there. But Mrs H had the option  of cancelling the 
card when she left the branch but she didnt do so. And I cant see there  was any reason for 
TSB to think the credit wasnt affordable. There wasnt any adverse information on her credit 
records. She had a joint account at the time and TSB said that didnt raise any concerns. 
Mrs H has given us copies of the statements from this account. And it seems to me it was 
being kept within its overdraft limit around  the time the credit card account was opened. So I 
dont think TSB was wrong  when it said this credit was affordable.
There was an initial credit limit of £1,500. There were a number of credit limit increases to 
£4,000. There  isnt any evidence to say Mrs H told TSB she didnt want the increases. And 
there was nothing in the history of the transactions on Mrs Hs card account that wouldve 
alerted TSB to any concerns. She kept within the limit on the card and she paid more each 
month than the minimum repayments.
Mrs H says TSB didnt respond  when  she told it she was having financial difficulties. TSB 
says she didnt approach it until November 2018. But Mrs H says she approached staff at 
her local branch numerous times  and that they didnt log this on their system.  It may be that 
Mrs H talked to staff about her situation. TSBs position  is that there was little help it could  
offer her based  on how she was maintaining her account without any arrears. So that may 
be the reason  why these visits havent been recorded. 
Mrs H has now sent us a letter  from TSB dated 2 October 2018 about  managing  her credit 
card balance. But this doesnt mean it thinks shes in financial difficulties. As the letter  says 
she may have chosen to manage her card in a particular way. 
I know Mrs H will be upset  by my decision but for all the reasons Ive given I dont think  TSB 
has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3614187