K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Yorkshire  Building  Society has incorrectly  decided  that their 
property has been let out which has led to their mortgage application being rejected.
background
Mr and Mrs R applied for a residential  mortgage  with YBS. It appointed  an independent 
surveyor to carry out a mortgage  valuation. The surveyor  said in the report  that the property 
was tenanted. YBS decided not to provide a mortgage. Mr and Mrs R want a refund of the 
valuation fee and legal fees.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-We cannot consider  a complaint about the surveyor  as it falls outside our jurisdiction.
-In an online mortgage application completed on 14 August 2018  Mr and Mrs R 
agreed the Society does  not have to make  an offer of a loan or refund any fee paid if 
I do not meet its lending criteria and to pay the Societys conveyancing costs  and 
valuation fees even if the mortgage does not complete.
-YBS was entitled to rely on the information  provided  to it by a suitably  qualified  
professional.
-YBS used the valuation as a basis to confirm whether or not the property is adequate 
security and the report was solely for its use.
-The underwriter at YBS had checked  a property  listing website and seen the property 
was listed for rental and had been since July 2018. YBS knew  Mr R said that this 
listing was a mistake by his estate  agent.
-YBS had made a decision not to proceed with the lending.
Mr and Mrs R did not agree. They said that under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 YBS was 
responsible for the quality of the service it had subcontracted. Their complaint is not about 
the mortgage not going ahead but about  the valuation  report provided by YBS which theyve 
paid for and which is incorrect. The lending criteria of YBS are not relevant to that. The 
valuation report did not say that the property was advertised for rental  but that it was 
tenanted  so the advert is not relevant  to whether or not the valuation report  is correct.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The valuation report said the following:
The property is currently tenanted. The valuation  assumes there is no security of tenure and 
that full vacant possession is available on completion. Legal adviser to verify.
After Mr R complained YBS contacted  the surveyor. YBS says in its final response letter that
The valuer arrived at the property and was told by the concierge  that the property was 
tenanted. Upon further research it was noted that the property is currently  being marketed to 
let... 
YBS went  on to say in the final response that following on from their comments  and our 
recent review of your complaint as the information we have  and what  youve submitted are 
Ref: DRN38078352conflicting, were unhappy  with the overall information  youve provided  to us and this doesnt 
meet our criteria, therefore I cant agree to refund the valuation  fee.
The adjudicators explained the purpose of the mortgage valuation  report.  It is a report that is 
only to be relied on by YBS. And Id expect it to take reasonable care in appointing a suitably 
qualified independent surveyor to carry out that valuation. There  is one factual issue with the 
valuation that Mr R has raised. It is clear from the quote above  that this does not affect the 
valuation of the property or its suitability as security  if the property is vacant. And the 
surveyor has explained to YBS how the view about  the property being tenanted was 
reached.
Mr R has disputed that the property is or will be tenanted. YBS has taken account  of the 
what hes said. And it has put his comments to the surveyor and had a response. In my view 
YBS has dealt with any concerns Mr R has raised about the way it used the valuation report. 
He clearly does not agree  with the assessment by YBS but he also does not want to me to 
look at how its made  its subsequent  decision.
I dont consider YBS has made any mistake in arranging a mortgage valuation of the 
property. Mr and Mrs R were fairly liable to pay for this. I agree that any specific complaint 
about the surveyor is not one we can consider as part of this complaint about YBS.
So Im afraid  I dont have  a basis to say that YBS should refund the fees involved.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3807835