K821x#15complaint
Mr D says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him
background to the complaint
I issued a provisional decision on 30 January 2020 explaining why I think that this complaint 
should be upheld  in part. Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision and it forms part of 
this decision.
MYJAR agreed with my decision and Mr D did not raise any new points.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has added  anything 
further, I dont see any reason to come to a different conclusion.  So, I still believe that this 
complaint should  be upheld  in part and MYJAR  should do the following.
putting things right
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 7 to 14;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 7 to 14 from Mr Ds credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 to 14 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loan 7 to 14 should be removed 
from Mr Ds credit  file.
My understanding is that Mr D has an outstanding balance on loan 17 the above 
redress can be used to pay off this balance.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint in part and  
MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) should  pay redress as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Charlie Newton
Ref: DRN30974302ombudsman
Ref: DRN30974303copy of my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Ms S could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish  whether  Mr D 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
In this instance  our adjudicator thought that loan 4 should not have been given due to the pattern of 
borrowing that had emerged by this point. They believe  that this pattern suggested that Mr D was 
struggling to repay  some  of the previous  loans.  I do not agree that this was the case at this point.  I 
say this because whilst  Mr D had taken out four loans in less than six months I dont think  that this in 
isolation was enough to put MYJAR on notice that there were issues with Mr Ds ability to maintain 
payments. I also am satisfied that proportionate checks were carried out and based on these I dont 
think that MYJAR should not have  agreed  this loan.
For loan 5 and 6 I am not satisfied that proportionate checks were  carried out. But I am unable to say 
what any further  checks  wouldve shown given  that Mr D has not provided  further information  such  as 
bank statements or his credit file despite us requesting these documents. Given this there is not 
enough for me to conclude that these loans  should not have been given.
Ref: DRN30974304Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of MYJARS lending  history with Mr D, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably  have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 7. I say 
this because:
At this point MYJAR ought  to have realised Mr D was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr D had taken out 6 loans within 5 months. So MYJAR ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr D was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Mr Ds first loan was for £100 and loan 7 was for £200.  At this point MYJAR ought to have  
known that Mr D was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income but to 
meet an ongoing need. 
Mr D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR.  Loan 7 was taken out 5 
months after Mr Ds first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr D had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service  a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
I think  that Mr D lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 7 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans which Mr D borrowed was likely  to have had negative  implications  on his 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im currently  planning to uphold  the complaint  about loan 7 to 14 and MYJAR should put things 
right.
Ref: DRN3097430