K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs T have  complained about their home insurer,  Ageas Insurance Limited 
because it declined their claim made  to it following a flood at their home.
background
In June 2016  there was excessive rain in the area of Mr C and Mrs Ts home.  Drains  near 
their house  were inundated; water backed  up and flooded their home. They  contacted Ageas 
and a disaster recovery specialist was appointed straightaway with some strip out works to 
the flooring and skirting taking place within a few days.
A loss adjuster visited within a few days too and there was a call from the brokers. Both told 
Mr C and Mrs T that there  might  be a problem with Ageas accepting the claim because of an 
endorsement on the policy which removed cover for flood  damage:
Section 1 (Buildings)  and Section 2 (Contents) of this insurance does not cover loss or 
damage caused by flood  other than directly  resulting  from escape of water from fixed water 
tanks, apparatus or pipes  as shown in number 4 of Sections 1 and 2.
The loss adjuster said to help Mr C and Mrs T hed have a drying company provide 
equipment to help dry the property but they should otherwise act as if they were uninsured 
until hed made  enquiries to see if there was cover available. The loss adjuster asked Ageas 
if it would  accept this as a claim for storm or escape  of water.  And Ageas made enquiries 
about how the policy was sold with a view to establishing if the endorsement  had been made 
clear to Mr C and Mrs T.
Ageas determined that Mr C had been  made  aware of the endorsement and that hed
agreed to it. It decided this incident  couldnt be viewed as having been caused by a storm or 
escape of water. It told the loss adjuster this was a flood event and the claim was declined. 
The loss adjuster wrote to Mr C and Mrs T on 18 July 2016  advising  of this.
Mr C and Mrs T were  disappointed but set about  restoring their home.  In summer 2017 Mr C 
and Mrs T made contact  with a loss assessor who said he could challenge  the claim 
decision. On 1 September 2017 Ageas issued its final response  to Mr C and Mrs T. In it 
Ageas said that water coming into the property from outside is flood, whether or not its 
source is a river. Mr C and Mrs T complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that given the extensive reporting of flooding  in the area and that the 
policy excluded cover for flood damage, Ageas decision was fair and reasonable. Mr C was 
unhappy. He felt wed overlooked that this incident wasnt  related to the river flooding.  He 
noted that hed agreed to the endorsement  but said this was on the basis that flooding  from 
the river was what  was being  excluded.  He felt if other forms of damage  were being excluded  
too they should be expressly named.
I considered the complaint and didnt  feel it should be upheld.  I issued a provisional decision 
explaining my views and both parties were given chance to respond. Ive copied my 
provisional findings here:
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN32909592endorsement
Mr C accepts that he was aware of the endorsement. But it seems he understood this was in 
place to restrict cover  where the river burst its banks. However, that isnt what the 
endorsement says.  There is no allowance for flood, other than by a river, to be covered. The 
endorsement in fact prohibits all damage  caused by flood unless the flood is from water 
over-spilling from fixed water apparatus.  So in this instance it doesnt matter whether the 
flood was caused by the river bursting its banks or because the drains couldnt deal with the 
amount of rain and surface water being discharged into them.
storm
The loss adjuster considered whether the damage  might be covered  under this event as he 
noted that there had been an unusual and excessive fall of rain immediately before and 
during the flooding. But Ageas refuted the idea.  In the circumstances I think that was fair and 
reasonable. The flood endorsement is quite broad  unless water  floods from apparatus,  
flood damage wont  be covered.  And in this sort of situation its necessary to consider the 
nature of the damage too. Here the damage to the property  has resulted in lots of water 
sitting in and under the home,  and that is flood damage, not that usually related to a storm.
escape of water (from fixed apparatus)
I know  the loss adjuster also looked at this but again  Ageas  rejected  the idea. From what  Ive 
seen I think that was fair. Photos taken  of the home  whilst the flood waters were still present 
dont suggest  that water filled the bath and/or sink etc and over-spilled flooding the home. 
And the loss adjusters report from July 2017 notes the presence of air bricks at the front of 
the property at ground floor level which had been  submerged by the external flood water, 
allowing water into the property.
stripping out the property
Ageas sent in specialists very quickly. And on occasion when an insurer  takes this type of 
action, this service will consider it has entered into a contract to repair the property. However, 
were also mindful that where  unusual events occur   like large  scale flooding  insurers  
often act in response to an emergency situation before fully considering  their liability  on the 
policy. Acting in this way benefits everyone and it isnt therefore fair to consider that by acting 
the insurer has accepted cover  is in place.
Im also mindful here, having now seen the loss adjusters report  and some other case  
details, that action taken to strip the property occurred pretty  much  simultaneously  with 
warnings being  given that cover may not be available.  And within just over a fortnight of the 
loss adjusters visit the claim was formally declined. So this isnt a case  where the insurers  
agents acted as though  there was cover in place whilst disregarding a clear bar to liability  
(the endorsement).
I know  that Mr C and Mrs T have raised concerns  about  the damage done  to their home 
when the floor coverings and skirtings were  stripped out. But looking at the detail of the 
flooring and the height of the flood waters, I think its unlikely that anything  could have been 
salvaged. And I think its also likely that the plastering at low level would have needed  
replacing as a result of the flooding too. Meaning any damage done to the plaster by 
removing the skirting likely didnt cause any additional reinstatement work to be needed over 
and above that which was already necessary due to the flood.
Ref: DRN32909593summary
I fully appreciate  that this event, coupled with the news that Ageas wouldnt cover  the 
damage came as a shock to Mr C and Mrs T. And I know  from what  theyve said that its 
been difficult, as well as immensely costly, to get things put right.  And not least  because  
theyve had to fund living elsewhere on top of the reinstatement works.  However,  having  
looked at everything, Im not persuaded that Ageas  did anything  wrong  here or that there  is 
any way that their loss could fairly be said to be covered under the policy  they had in place.
When Mr C and Mrs T took out this cover there was limited availability  from insurers  for 
policyholders living  in flood risk areas   and that doesnt necessarily just mean those that live 
near a river. Some insurers now do offer cover  for flood regardless of flood history. Im not 
sure whether  Mr C and Mrs T might be able to find cover that suits them but, and if they 
havent done so already, it might benefit  them to shop around to see what is available. Some 
further information on this topic is available on the internet, particularly the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI) website.
Ageas didnt reply. Mr C and Mrs T, via a representative did. The response can be 
summarised as:
Whilst Mr C was aware  of the endorsement,  the policy was likely mis-sold  as it wasnt fit 
for purpose,  purporting to cover  flood but then not doing so. 
Its unclear why flood  related damage  is excluded but damage caused by 
storm/excessive rainfall  would be accepted. 
In any event, it was storm rain that caused  the river to burst,  so the storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage  at Mr C and Mrs Ts home. And their policy offers cover 
for storm  damage.
Its not true that no damage  was caused  by the waste/soil pipes. And damage caused by 
this and that caused by river water entering the property cant be distinguished between.
Viewing the matter as flood is just a matter of convenience for the insurer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, and with regret for the 
disappointment I know this will bring to Mr C and Mrs T, Im not minded to uphold their 
complaint. 
Ageas didnt sell this policy. So I cant consider an allegation about  mis-sale against it.
All insurers are able to choose what they want to offer cover  for. What cover an insurer offers 
is considered to be a matter of its commercial judgement and not something this service will 
usually interfere with. 
Insurance is about risks and Ageas evidently isnt prepared  to take on any risk regarding  
flood damage (with the exception of flooding  from fixed  water apparatus under the escape  of 
water cover). However, it is happy  to offer cover for damage caused  by a storm. Why it has 
made that choice is a matter for it, its not something wed interfere with.
Ref: DRN32909594For this to be considered  under the cover for storm damage the loss which had occurred 
would have to be that seen to be typically caused by a storm. Typical instances of storm 
damage that we see involve  tiles missing from roofs and internal water staining  and/or 
dampness. Damage such as that which needed  repairing at Mr C and Mrs Ts home resulted 
from several inches of water having  entered the home, most  likely via ventilation  bricks and 
other gaps  in the building,  because of the over-flowing river and/or drains.  That is not 
damage typically associated with storm. 
Flood is usually defined as a body  or mass of water  that has appeared somewhere it 
shouldnt usually be. Generally there  might  be a number of reasons why any flood occurs.  
But in June  2016 there was a flood at Mr C and Mrs Ts home,  which caused damage. 
That flood may well have  been caused by storm water causing the river and/or drains to 
overflow. But as I pointed out provisionally; Ageas flood endorsement is quite clear. Flood 
damage is excluded  unless the flood  which is said to have  caused  the damage  resulted from 
water escaping from fixed water apparatus; cover for which  is then provided under the 
escape of water terms.
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest that water escaping the fixed  apparatus  caused the 
damage. Once water had escaped from such apparatus it might well cause the same or 
similar damage as water entering the home  as a result of a river and/or drains overflowing. 
Because both scenarios would result  in the same  outcome  water being where it wasnt  
meant to be, contacting surfaces that arent waterproof. But, in this case, if water had 
escaped, Id have expected to see signs of that. The evidence from when the flood  waters  
were still in place, for example in the bathroom  of Mr C and Mrs Ts home,  is that water 
hadnt filled and over-spilled items  like the bath.
I accept that my findings are inconvenient for Mr C and Mrs T, but that doesnt mean theyve 
been made to assist  the insurer. Rather  Ive assessed the evidence to hand to determine  
whether Ages decision to decline the claim on the basis  that a flood had occurred  which,  as 
a result of the endorsement, it had no liability for, was fair and reasonable. Having done so, 
Im satisfied that it was.
 
my final decision
With regret for the disappointment  I know this will cause Mr C and Mrs T, I dont uphold  this 
complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3290959