K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Ms C says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Ms C aware the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before adding  it to 
her card. I cant know for certain what was said at the time Ms C applied  for her card and 
PPI but BoS has provided a copy of that available paperwork. Ms Cs credit card application 
form had a separate section for PPI that Ms C has signed to agree with taking the policy. 
With this in mind I think BoS made it clear that Ms C didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not remember  this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Ms C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Ms C 
has told us she would  have been entitled to sick pay and had savings. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Ms Cs sick pay and for longer. It would also have  protected  
Ms Cs savings so they could be used towards other expenses.  Ms C wasnt affected  by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the 
cover. So I think it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Ms C about that. Because BoS didnt tell Ms C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ms Cs representative says there have been other court cases in relation to non-disclosure 
of commission where  consumers have received everything back and they think  BoS should 
refund all of the commission and profit  share it received for the PPI.
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Ms C and her complaint  to see if theres 
anything about  them  that would mean the business  should do something  different  if the 
Ref: DRN30599932remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Ms C. But 
there isnt anything about Ms Cs complaint or circumstances that suggest  the redress paid 
by BoS isnt fair or reasonable. So these points  dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Ms C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Ms C any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Ms C the difference  between 
what Ms C owes  and what she wouldve owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Ms C 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off their credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3059993