K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that esure  Insurance Limited (esure) has declined their claim and 
decided to void their policy (as though it never existed).  
They are being  represented by their daughter, Miss A. 
background
Mr and Mrs A had a home insurance  policy with esure, which included contents cover. It was 
taken out through an online comparison site and theyve renewed the policy  annually  since  
2013. 
Their most recent renewal schedule dated October  2016 shows  Mr and Mrs A had cover  of 
£37,030 for household  goods,  £18,510 for high risk items and a specified  item insured to the 
value of £4,390. So the total amount they were insured for on their contents was £59,930.
On 19 October 2017, Mr and Mrs A unfortunately had a burglary at their home. The following 
day, they notified esure and it appointed loss adjusters. After review  and inspection, the loss 
was estimated by the adjusters to be in the region of £16,500 for household goods and 
£121,865 for high risk items (e.g. jewellery). And Mr and Mrs A estimated the loss to be 
around a total of £80,000 on one of their initial calls to esure  following the burglary. 
Further communication took place between Mr and Mrs A and esure and, after 
consideration, it declined the claim and voided  the policy (i.e. treated it as if it never existed). 
Esure offered to return the premiums that Mr and Mrs A had paid at renewal. It said Mr and 
Mrs A deliberately didnt  disclose the correct value  of their contents. It said if they had 
disclosed the correct  value it would never have accepted the risk. 
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to this service.  Our investigator  looked into 
the complaint  and didnt uphold it. He concluded that, had the true value of the contents 
been disclosed correctly,  esure would not have insured the contents as this was outside the 
level of risk it would  have been willing to accept. The investigator thought esure hadnt acted 
unfairly in voiding  the policy,  rejecting the claim and refunding the premiums.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree with the investigators  assessment and asked  for an ombudsman  
to make a decision, so the case has now been passed  to me. 
In summary,  they said:
The policy had been voided by esure but it hadnt taken  into account they had been 
loyal customers since 2013;
As far as they were  aware, they selected  £2,000,000 for personal liability, which  they 
understood covered the cost of possessions such as jewellery;
They gave the correct information to the questions they were asked by esure  when 
they took out the insurance; and
Theyre disappointed  with the delays and the way the claim has been handled by 
esure.
Ref: DRN36163442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When doing so, I also need to take into account relevant law and regulations, guidance and 
standards and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
Because the policy in question was entered into after 6 April 2013, the relevant law I have to 
consider is the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Under this legislation, a consumer  has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when applying for or renewing insurance. The law sets out a number of 
considerations, which include that insurers should ask clear  and specific  questions  about 
facts they consider to be material to the risk under proposal. An insurer  only has a remedy  
against consumers  if they breached their duty of reasonable care and there was a qualifying  
misrepresentation, i.e. one which  adversely affected the insurers ability to assess  the risk. 
And the insurers remedy will turn on whether the qualifying  misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless,  or merely careless (in which case  there may be a more  proportionate 
remedy than voidance  depending on what would have happened without the 
misrepresentation). The burden of proof lies on the insurer  whos  alleging breach of 
duty/misrepresentation.   
So taking the above into account and to show that the policyholders had deliberately not 
disclosed relevant  information to the detriment of its underwriting, esure first has to provide 
evidence that a clear  and specific  question  was incorrectly  answered in breach of the duty of 
reasonable care; and that this adversely affected the risk it was proposing  to cover.  In other  
words, esure has to provide evidence to show:
What question was asked;
What answer was given; and
The answer given  was incorrect.
When Mr and Mrs A completed the proposal online in 2013,  they were  asked:
How much would it cost to replace the entire  contents of your home as new?
They were  prompted  to enter a total figure in a free text box and they opted for around 
£59,000. Ive considered  the above question asked and I dont think it was unclear because 
it asked Mr and Mrs A to state  the replacement cost of their entire contents. They had to 
enter the amount they thought was the value of their contents. Some thought was required 
by them  when answering the question  as it wasnt just a tick box. Mr and Mrs A completed 
the question and, while this might have  been  the right answer in 2013, they had the 
opportunity to review  the information  annually  but nothing substantial changed since  2013. 
As such Im satisfied that the question wasnt misleading or unclear. 
Following a quote they received, the online comparison website would have redirected
Mr and Mrs A to esures own website which in 2013 stated:
One third of your total contents sum insured  is dedicated to cover high risk items, 
which includes jewellery valued at less than £1,500.
Ref: DRN36163443If your high risk items are greater than one third of the total sum insured this could 
result in a claim being reduced, rejected or your policy cancelled. 
Again, I think  the above statement was clear and not misleading.
Ive taken into consideration that in 2013 Mr and Mrs A might  not have remembered the 
exact value of their contents and it would be reasonable to expect they answered the 
question to the best of their knowledge.  But even  if I give them  this benefit of doubt, the 
significant difference between the contents value input by them in 2013 (also  confirmed in 
their renewal document in 2016) and the actual valuation of the stolen items made by the 
loss adjuster following the burglary, is too big for me to simply ignore. And at the very least, I 
think it would  have  been reasonable to expect that at renewal if Mr and Mrs A didnt know 
the true value  of the items they would have found  out and updated it rather than continuing 
with it on the same  basis since 2013. I cant see that the contents value was ever reviewed  
and Mr and Mrs A continued to renew the policy virtually on that same basis.  
Looking at the renewal policy schedule dated  29 October 2016, under the section What you 
need to do now, Mr and Mrs A were asked  to read the document carefully and ensure the 
information provided is accurate and not misleading.  It also states that Mr and Mrs A had a 
duty to ensure their household goods, high risk items, personal possessions and specified  
items were insured for the full replacement cost as new at all times. Esures argument is that 
Mr and Mrs A have  knowingly underinsured  their contents as they themselves confirmed in a 
call to esure they believed the value to be around £80,000, while  the loss adjusters 
estimated it to be around £138,000. Having  considered the October  2016  schedule, Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs A took reasonable  care in correctly  representing the true value of 
their contents and, on balance, I think they therefore made a misrepresentation. 
As Ive already  indicated above,  CIDRA  details that an insurer  has a remedy against a 
consumer (here Mr and Mrs A) where  the consumer has made a misrepresentation in 
breach of the duty to take reasonable care, and the insurer  shows that, without the 
misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the contract at all (or would have but on 
different terms).  Such a misrepresentation is referred to as a qualifying  misrepresentation 
and is either  i) deliberate or reckless, or ii) careless.
A qualifying  misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless under the Act if the consumer 
knew the information they provided  was untrue or misleading or did not care whether it was 
untrue or misleading  and knew that it related to something relevant to the insurer  or didnt  
care whether  or not it was relevant.  Otherwise,  the misrepresentation is just treated as 
careless.  
Esure has provided its underwriting  criteria  which confirm that Mr and Mrs A would only have 
been offered cover  for a maximum £75,000 contents and it would only have increased  this if 
they had an intruder alarm installed (which they didnt). Esure has said therefore the 
misrepresentation was deliberate. I have also reviewed the information provided and in this 
case, Im satisfied too that Mr and Mrs As misrepresentation was at the very least  reckless  
because, while the maximum amount they could have got cover  for was £75,000, Mr and 
Mrs A estimated the value to be £80,000 in October 2017 (and in reality it was probably  
much more). It seems  inherently unlikely that anyone could accidentally insure their entire 
contents for under £60,000  when  they know, or ought reasonably  to know, that their high-risk  
valuables alone  are worth significantly more than that sum.  This isnt mere  underinsurance  
(which might  justify averaging the claim under the policy terms and conditions) but looks  
more like a material misrepresentation of the very nature and scope of the risk. Esure  
Ref: DRN36163444thought they were insuring a certain  risk whereas in fact it was materially different, so there  
was no true meeting of minds  between the contracting parties. 
As a result, its not unreasonable  for esure to void the policy.  Thats the appropriate  remedy  
for a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. Voidance means the policy  is treated as 
though it never existed,  so it follows no valid claim can arise under it. Strictly speaking, esure 
also isnt required to refund the premiums in the case of a deliberate  or reckless 
misrepresentation (per Schedule 1, paragraph 2 of CIDRA). I can see though  that it has in 
fact offered  to refund the premiums to Mr and Mrs A. This is esures  choice and, to its credit,  
it has done more  than it has to in law. Mr and Mrs A should contact esure directly if they now 
wish to accept this offer. 
While I acknowledge Mr and Mrs As other comments regarding personal liability  cover and 
that theyve been loyal customers of esure, I dont think these make  a difference  in this case. 
The £2m limit of indemnity for third-party claims against policyholders is completely different 
cover from the sum insured for their contents  and I am satisfied  the policy is clear enough 
over this distinction. Any confusion on the policyholders part is not the fault of esure. In my 
judgment, it doesnt excuse their breach as merely careless rather  than reckless or 
deliberate. But in any event, even if I were  to hold this as careless, the remedy would still be 
the same  because the underwriting  evidence indicates that disclosure of the true values  
would have made the risk unacceptable  to esure.  CIDRA still allows  an insurer to void cover 
if it wouldnt have been offered but for a careless misrepresentation (albeit it requires a 
refund of premiums, which is what esure has agreed  of its own volition). 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs A found themselves in this position by materially  misrepresenting  the 
value of their contents. They had a duty of reasonable  care to ensure they fairly presented 
the risk to esure but failed  to do so. What esure has done isnt unreasonable or unfair in all 
the circumstances and bearing in mind its strict legal  rights under  CIDRA. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint against esure 
Insurance Limited. I dont think it needs to do anything to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3616344