K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, has not taken responsibility for 
problems he experienced when he tried to deposit a cheque  using  its immediate deposit  
machines (IDMs).
background
In November 2018 Mr D tried to deposit a printed cheque into two different IDMs at his local 
Halifax branch. He says he was advised  that the IDMs were inconsistent  with reading 
cheques and he was told to go to another branch with a counter service.  
Mr D says that when he went  to the second branch the counter staff were  unable to scan  the 
cheque on their automated machines and had to manually enter the cheque  details.
Mr D complained to Halifax about  the problems he experienced  with depositing the cheque. 
In its first reply Halifax said the most likely explanation was that there was a problem with the 
cheque, as it couldnt be scanned across several different machines. It didnt uphold  his 
complaint.
Mr D told Halifax  that members  of staff confirmed that the cheque was clear and didnt 
identify any reason why the machines couldnt scan it. He asked Halifax  to investigate the 
issue further. In its second response Halifax said that no other scanning issues were 
reported at the two branches involved; it advised  that it would not be carrying  out a wider 
investigation into its IDMs. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld.  He didnt think there was enough evidence to show  that there was a wider  
fault with Halifaxs  IDMs. 
Mr D said that Halifax  was not being transparent about its scanning IDM problem. He told us 
hed experienced problems with depositing other cheques on three  further occasions.  As 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld,  and I will explain my reasons below.
Mr D believes  there was a fundamental fault with Halifaxs  IDMs. He is unhappy that Halifax 
have failed to take responsibility for this problem and refused  to launch a wider investigation 
into the effectiveness of its IDMs. 
Ive reviewed the Halifax investigation  of Mr Ds complaint.  I can see that it contacted the 
relevant branch managers to establish if there  were  further scanning problems reported with 
IDMs at the branches;  as there were not, Halifax concluded the problem  was likely to be with 
the cheque. 
When Mr D complained again, Halifax got back in touch with the managers. It was reported 
that there  was previously  a problem with IDMs  inconsistently  reading cheques,  but this had 
been resolved  eleven  months  earlier. It was also noted that staff did not recall  telling any 
customers that the IDMs were inconsistent at reading cheques.
Ref: DRN38508482There is no dispute that Mr D experienced problems when  he tried to deposit his printed 
cheque in November  2018 and whilst Halifax was unable to confirm Mr D was told that the 
IDMs were  inconsistent, I dont doubt that he was. However, I dont think this means that 
there was a fundamental problem with Halifaxs IDMs. There  may be number of reasons  that 
an IDM may be unable to read a cheque, one might  be due to the cheque  typeface, the 
ultraviolet reflection on the scanner or due to a fault with the IDM.
Unfortunately, Halifax were unable to establish  why Mr D had problems scanning  his 
cheque, but from the information  I can see it did try to establish what went wrong and tried to 
ascertain whether there  were any other  recent reports of IDMs being unable to read cheques 
at the branches  involved; as there were not, Halifax  decided  not to take any further action. 
And I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
More recently Mr D told us that he had problems depositing cheques  on a further  three 
occasions during  2019, but I dont  think this is enough to conclude  that Halifax  IDMs had a 
fundamental fault. Mr D has not given us any detail  about  what happened on these 
occasions; it is not clear  whether this was on one machine, whether the machine  gave  error  
codes or whether the cheques had the same typeface. In any event Mr D would need to give 
Halifax an opportunity  to look into these concerns. If he remains unhappy with the response,  
he can then raise this with our service.
Mr D says Halifax has been  dishonest  about its IDMs scanning issues.  He says that Halifax  
has recently added a new feature to its process,  which now request you key in the total 
amount of the cheques when you deposit  it into the machine. Mr D thinks this change is in 
response to the scanning  issue  he highlighted. 
Halifax explained that it upgraded its IDMs in 2019,  but this was not to resolve a fault across 
its IDMs, but rather to bring them in line with the banking industrys new image clearing 
system. Halifax  confirmed that the keying in feature is not new, as once a cheque  is scanned 
its IDMs would always ask the customer to key in the cheque total. If for any reason  an IDM 
is unable to scan a cheque, the customer would not get to the keying in stage of the process. 
From what  Ive seen, there  is nothing  to suggest  that Halifax have  not been transparent with 
this service or with Mr D.
I appreciate Mr D believes that Halifax IDMs had a fundamental scanning fault, but the 
available evidence isnt enough to convince  me thats the likeliest explanation for the 
problems he experienced, so Im unable to uphold his complaint. I think  its also important to 
note that Halifax  gave Mr D other  options  to pay in the cheque  including at local 
Post Offices   and its not for me, as an ombudsman rather  than a regulator,  to say that 
Halifax must keep counter  services instead  of these machines.
This decision is the final stage of our process. This means we cannot consider this complaint 
further.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Ref: DRN38508483Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3850848