K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a car under a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background
In March 2018 Mrs A part-exchanged her old car and bought a BMW on hire purchase.  She 
complains that she was misinformed about  when a promotion (zero percent finance)  would  
expire. She says on her first visit to the dealership where she bought the car she was told 
that the offer would remain open  until the end of the month, but on her second visit she was 
told that the offer would end at the end of the week, which  was Sunday  18 March 2018. She 
says she felt pressured into buying  the car because of this deadline, so as not to miss out. 
On 18 March she paid a deposit  of £1,000.  The car was delivered  on 29 March.
In June of that year,  Mrs A discovered that the zero percent finance offer was still open. So 
she complained  that the deal had been  misrepresented, and asked to return  the car, unwind 
the agreement, and be refunded what she had paid,  with interest.
BMW did not agree  that its salesman  had done anything wrong. It said that the offer had 
been due to expire at the end of the quarter,  that is 31 March,  and that its salespeople would 
not have known that the offer would be renewed in the next quarter, because that 
information is embargoed until the first day of the new quarter. So as far as the salesman 
would have known  at the time, the offer would not be available  after March.  (BMW did not 
address Mrs As complaint that she was given an earlier deadline  which expired before the 
end of March, because she did not mention that until after she received BMWs final 
response.) Mrs A brought her complaint to our Service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that the salesman hadnt  known 
that the promotion would still be available after March.  And to qualify  for the promotion,  the 
finance agreement  had to be signed  and the car had to be delivered  before the end of 
March. The car Mrs A had wanted had not been on the premises,  so the dealer had had to 
have it delivered  from elsewhere,  and that could take up to ten working days. So if Mrs A 
had waited until nearer  to 31 March, the car might  not have been  delivered in time, and she 
might have lost out on the deal. He concluded  that there had been no misrepresentation.
Mrs A did not agree.  She said she had never  been  told it would take ten working  days  to 
deliver the car, and that she had chosen the delivery  date of 29 March  herself only because 
it was convenient  for her. She said she had been told that the car could be delivered  to her 
five days earlier than that, so she did not accept what our adjudicator  had been  told was 
true. She insisted  that she had been  told that she had to take the finance agreement  by 18 
March, and that this had been a lie intended to pressure her into buying a car. She also said 
that she had not chosen  the colour  of her car until after she had paid the deposit, so the 
dealer couldnt  have  known that the car she wanted  would not already be on its premises.
Our adjudicator pointed  out that the fact that the car had in fact been ready within five days  
did not mean it was unreasonable of the dealer to allow for up to ten days  to make sure the 
car would be delivered in time. Just because  the dealer had not mentioned  the ten day 
timescale to her did not mean it did not exist. He referred this complaint  for an ombudsmans  
decision.
Ref: DRN38429892my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I accept that the salesman did not know that there would  still be a zero percent finance deal 
available after March  2018. The deal he knew about  was due to end at the end of that 
month, and so when  he told Mrs A that the deal would not be available after that, this was 
correct. A different department of BMW decides  on what  deals  will be available each quarter, 
based on sales figures. In any case,  Mrs A has not suggested that a deadline  of 31 March  to 
make up her mind would have been  too much  pressure.  So I do not uphold  that part of her 
complaint.
Mrs A says that her main complaint, however, is about the new deadline of 18 March which 
she was given on her later visit. She says that this put her under pressure to make a quick 
decision, and since the deal was still available after that date, the hire purchase  agreement 
was misrepresented to her. She has emphasised to us that she was told that the promotion 
would end on 18 March,  not that this date was simply  the date after which delivery of her car 
could not be guaranteed. She says that this was dishonest.
In support of her complaint, Mrs A says she was shown a list of cars with their delivery  
dates, and there was enough time for these cars to be delivered well before the end of 
March even if she ordered them later than 18 March.
The chronology is as follows.
18 March  Mrs A agreed  to the deal and paid a deposit of £1,000.
19 and 20 March   discussions  (by email) about  licence plate.
21 March  car registered  with DVLA.
23 March  Mrs A paid a second  deposit of £3,000.
26 March  car delivered  to dealership. Mrs A signed the hire purchase agreement.
29 March  car collected  by Mrs A.
She therefore argues that BMWs explanation must be false, because the car was delivered 
and ready  for collection on 26 March,  eight days after she ordered it and five days  before the 
end of March.
In order to uphold  a complaint about  misrepresentation, I would have to be satisfied about 
the following  things.  Firstly, that a false statement of fact was made. Secondly, that the false  
information provided induced Mrs A to enter  the finance agreement when she would not 
have done so if she had known the true position  at the time.
I have listened  to the recording  of a phone call between Mrs A and the adjudicator, made on 
1 February 2019.  Mrs A was asked if she would have bought  the car if shed been given 
more time to decide. She said she honestly didnt know.  She felt pressured into buying  the 
car so as not to lose out on the promotion, and she would have liked to have more time to 
decide. That answer makes it less likely  that Mrs A was induced  by what she was told to do 
something she would not have done  otherwise.
I also take into account the fact that she could  have changed her mind  at any time up to 
when she signed  the hire purchase agreement, eight  days later. (Technically  she also had 
another 14 days after that in which she could have withdrawn from the agreement,  but I will 
Ref: DRN38429893not take that into account because the agreement says that she still has to repay the credit  
once it has been  provided to the dealer, which I infer must have happened no later than 29 
March.)
I also take into account the fact that there does not appear to have been any disadvantage  
to Mrs A in taking this deal. She bought a car on credit and the total charge for credit was 
zero. There  is nothing wrong with the car. She chose that car from a range of cars that were 
available, so its not as if she was forced into accepting a car she didnt like. (She  has 
described turning  down  the first few cars she looked at.) So there is no obvious reason why 
she might  not have bought that car, if shed had more time to make up her mind.
For the above reasons, I am not persuaded that Mrs A would not have bought this car if she 
had had been given five more days to decide what to do. It follows  that  whether or not she 
was misled by the dealer about the 18 March deadline (and I make  no finding about  that)  
I cannot uphold  her complaint about  misrepresentation.  And without being satisfied that 
there was a misrepresentation which induced Mrs A into making  a purchase she would not 
otherwise have made, I would not uphold  her complaint about being  put under pressure by 
the salesman.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3842989