K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund a series of card payments 
which she says she didnt  make or otherwise authorise.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 6 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
20 December 2019. But neither side have  sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Barclays nor Mrs W have  sent me any new evidence or arguments.  So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before  that its most  likely 
Mrs W did not make these  payments  or fail to keep her account safe either intentionally  or 
with gross negligence; and that Barclays should  keep Mrs Ws account  open and 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  it caused.
putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
refund  the disputed  payments that it has not already  refunded;
refund  any interest or charges that Mrs W incurred because  of Barclays debiting the 
disputed transactions;
pay simple  interest at 8% a year for each refunded payment, from the date Barclays 
last debited it to Mrs Ws account  until the date its given back ;
undo the closure of Mrs Ws account;  and-
pay Mrs W £300 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mrs W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN36709362my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint about  Barclays Bank UK PLC,  and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things 
right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36709363COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays  Bank UK PLC wont  refund  a series  of card payments which  she 
says she didnt make  or otherwise authorise.
what happened
In April and May 2018, Mrs Ws card details were used to fund an online gambling  account. There  
were 323 payments  made  using  her card, totalling £2,580.02.
The gambling  merchant had been given Mrs Ws name, address, and date of birth; as well as photos  
of her card, bank statement,  birth certificate, and marriage certificate. The mobile phone  number and 
email address used for the account do not match the contact  details that we or Barclays have for 
Mrs W, and she says she doesnt recognise  them.
Another £108  of payments  were  made to the gambling  account  by being  charged to a mobile phone  
bill, using  the number that Mrs W doesnt recognise.
Mrs W said she kept her card in her bag, and kept the bag in her home in no specific place. She said 
she never gave her card or card details  to anyone else, and never authorised anyone  else to use her 
card. She suspected the transactions were made by a person who lived with her, who was a 
compulsive gambler.  She said she had this person  removed  from her home  after discovering the 
payments. Mrs W explained that shes  disabled,  cant get around easily, and has severe  depression. 
She suspected that the person living  with her took advantage of this.
Barclays held Mrs W liable for the disputed payments, saying that the merchants information  
indicated that Mrs W had made or authorised the payments. However,  Barclays did acknowledge that 
Mrs W was in a vulnerable position, and it refunded £603 of the disputed payments as a goodwill 
gesture. The remaining  £1,977.02  is still in dispute.
Barclays also said it would close Mrs Ws account,  as well as a family members account  that Mrs W 
had control  over. It has not given a reason for the account closures. Mrs W says this caused  her great 
distress, and she had to arrange for her carer to help her pay her direct debits. Barclays then agreed 
to freeze the charges on her account  and keep it open until our service decided this complaint.
Our investigator felt that given  the information the merchant had about  Mrs W, it seemed  most likely  
that the account  was set up with her permission. And he noted  that shed been otherwise  using her 
bank account normally, so he felt it was most likely  shed have become aware  of the payments when  
running her account.  So he thought  it was fair for Barclays  to hold her liable  for the disputed 
transactions.
Mrs W disagreed with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to look at her case, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Im planning to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint, and Ill explain why.
Barclays can only hold Mrs W responsible for these payments if she authorised them, or if she failed 
to keep her account secure either intentionally or because of acting with a very significant degree of 
carelessness. Otherwise, Barclays has to refund the payments.
Ref: DRN36709364Im satisfied, from the banks technical  evidence,  that Mrs Ws correct  card details were used to make 
the disputed payments.  This is not enough, on its own, for Barclays to hold her liable. So I also need 
to think  about whether the evidence suggests that its most likely  Mrs W consented  to the payments or 
not.
The only reason Barclays has given for saying that Mrs W consented to the payments is the 
information that the merchant  received. But if, as Mrs W has claimed, the person  living with her made 
the payments, then it is completely plausible  that theyd be able to get a hold of her card and 
documents without her permission.  And theyd only need them for a very short  time in order to take a 
photo of them.
 
The mobile  phone and email address used do not appear to be Mrs Ws. They dont match  the 
contact details  that we or Barclays have for Mrs W, and she says she doesnt recognise  them. That 
indicates that it wasnt Mrs W who was using the gambling account.
Further, the unrecognised mobile  phone number was used  to make £108 of payments. These were  
billed to the mobile  phone account, and not to Mrs Ws bank  account. And Mrs W does not seem to 
have ever mentioned  the £108 of payments   for instance, she didnt report them,  and seemed  to be 
unaware of them in her contact with ourselves and Barclays. Shes only reported the £2,580.02 that 
debited from her bank account. And again,  she says she doesnt recognise the mobile phone number 
used on the account. If Mrs W was aware of the £108 of payments, Id have expected her to query  
them along with the others. But given  that these were made using details that werent linked to her, 
and given that Mrs W has never queried  them,  Im persuaded that she was not aware of them.  This 
indicates that it wasnt her making  the payments, and that she may not have known they were going 
to be made  at all. And that implies that they were not made with her permission.
I asked for Barclays  records about  balance  checks, and did not find any evidence that Mrs W had 
checked her balance at an ATM, online, or by telephone banking during the period of the disputed  
transactions. And Mrs W said she only checks her statements every six months or so. While 
generally, I might  expect a customer  to monitor their account more  closely than Mrs W did, it remains 
that this is how she chose  to monitor her account. And Im still satisfied that even though she was 
otherwise using her bank  account, Ive not seen any evidence that she was aware  of the disputed  
transactions before  she reported  them.
In summary, Mrs Ws testimony has been consistent and plausible, and Ive not been given any 
significant reasons to doubt  what  she said happened. Mrs W has explained  that shes in a particularly 
vulnerable position, and Barclays  has acknowledged  this. In this particular  case, it is completely 
plausible that someone close to Mrs W would  be able to carry out these  payments without her 
permission. And the evidence does not show that Mrs W was aware of these payments earlier,  nor 
that she was aware of the other £108 of payments that did not debit her bank account.  This indicates  
that the payments were not made with her permission.
So after carefully  balancing the evidence  at hand, I think  its more likely than not that Mrs W did not 
make these payments  or give someone else permission  to make them.
I have also not seen any evidence  to show that Mrs W acted recklessly here, or that she intentionally 
failed to keep her account  safe. Mrs W has told us that she kept her card in her bag. This is not 
unusual. And while it meant that it was possible for someone living with her to take the card,  I dont 
think Mrs W had sufficient reason to think her card would be unsafe when kept in her own bag in her 
own home. Further,  while  I acknowledge that Mrs W could have monitored her account more closely, 
I do not think  that that is sufficient to conclude that she acted recklessly,  or in such a way that means  
its fair for Barclays to hold her liable  for the transactions under the relevant rules  here.
So I currently  think that Barclays should refund the disputed payments.
Ref: DRN36709365closing Mrs Ws account
When Barclays held Mrs W liable for the disputed payments, it also decided to close her account.  
Mrs W says this has caused her great distress when  she already suffers severe  depression and is 
vulnerable. She fears she wont be able to pay her living costs and is having to make arrangements 
for her carer to make  payments for her.
Mrs Ws account  is a basic account. Banks can only close basic accounts  for very specific reasons. 
Ive looked at the applicable  reasons and none of those appear  to apply to this case.  Indeed, Barclays 
has declined to give any reasons at all for the account closure. So I do not think that Barclays has 
sufficient reason to close her basic account.
Barclays appears to be waiting for our service  to make a decision about the disputed  payments before 
it resumes dealing with the account closure. So it seems that the issue of the disputed payments and 
the issue  of the account closure are closely  linked   it could be that Barclays wants  to end its 
relationship with Mrs W because of the disputed payments. But as above, I dont think  Mrs W 
authorised the disputed payments, and even if she had, that would not be sufficient reason  on its own 
for Barclays to be able to close her basic account.
Barclays has also suggested  that it will be closing a family members  account. From  what  information  
Barclays has provided, I cannot see why it is closing the family members account  other than because 
Mrs W has authority over it and it wants to end its relationship with Mrs W. While my decision here is 
focused on the impact  of Barclays actions on Mrs Ws account that she holds  in her sole name, 
I hope that Barclays  will consider the impact of my findings  on its decision to close Mrs Ws family 
members account too, given how its chosen to link these accounts and issues,  and given  our 
services approach.
This issue seems to have  caused Mrs W a great deal of stress. So my provisional decision is that 
Barclays should keep Mrs Ws account open, and pay her £300 compensation  for the trouble  and 
upset it has caused in trying  to close it.
putting things  right
I propose that Barclays Bank UK PLC:
refunds the disputed  payments that it has not already refunded;
refunds any interest or charges that Mrs W incurred  because  of Barclays debiting  the 
disputed transactions;
pays simple interest at 8% a year for each refunded payment, from the date Barclays last 
debited it to Mrs Ws account until the date its given  back ;
undoes the closure of Mrs Ws account;  and-
pays Mrs W £300 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint, and to direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Barclays  and Mrs W send me any more information or comments to look at by 20 
December 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3670936