K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Ms C. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Ms C was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms C has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is because:
The form, which Ms C filled in and signed,  does  set out the PPI as a choice, which you 
make by signing  in a box. So I think Ms C knew she had a choice at the time,  even  if 
she doesnt  now remember,  so many years later. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended  the PPI as being  particularly  suitable  for Ms Cs 
individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
It would have  been for Ms C to decide whether it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Ms C clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information 
was given to Ms C. So Ive thought about  whether better  information is likely to have 
made a difference. But in Ms Cs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all 
the necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her 
decision. I say this because its fairly likely  that the PPI could  have paid out for longer 
than her full employer sick pay is likely to have lasted.  And it would have been in 
addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also it seems she didnt have 
many alternative means  to pay her living expenses and credit  account for long, if she 
lost her income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. Also 
it doesnt look like shed  have been  affected  by any of the significant exclusions  in the 
policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed  potentially  useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3233226