K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about HSBC UK Bank  Plc. Mr W says:
HSBC failed to complete  a current account switch correctly  and instead  just opened a 
current account with an overdraft  facility.
HSBC didnt allow him to pay off the outstanding amount on his current  account 
using his credit card.
HSBC unfairly defaulted his account  and reported this to the credit reference  
agencies.
background 
current account switch
When Mr W applied  for a HSBC current account in November 2017, he says he asked 
HSBC to carry out a current  account  switch. Mr W realised in March  2018 this hadnt  been 
done so he contacted HSBC about  this. They advised him that he hadnt selected  a current 
account switch  when he applied for the account  but agreed to refund the debit interest  that 
had accrued on the overdrawn  balance,  as a gesture  of goodwill.
not being able to pay the overdrawn balance with a credit card
Mr W says when HSBC contacted him about the overdrawn balance on his current  account; 
he attempted to pay it off using his credit card. He says HSBC didnt allow him to do this. 
HSBC said they didnt recommend Mr W to do this as it would put him into further financial 
difficulty. They also said as a responsible lender,  they wouldnt  allow  repayment of a debt 
with a credit  card as this would simply transfer the debt from one place to another.  Mr W is 
unhappy with this as he says had he been  allowed to use his credit card to pay the 
overdrawn balance, his account wouldnt have been  defaulted, which then showed  up on his 
credit file.
HSBC said they shouldve carried out an affordability check  when  Mr W asked to pay off the 
overdrawn balance using  his credit card. So they offered him £100 compensation in 
recognition of this but Mr W didnt  accept.
default applied  to Mr Ws credit file
Mr W is unhappy HSBC have defaulted his account  and reported this to the credit  reference 
agencies. He says this has caused  a lot of stress and inconvenience  for him.
HSBC say they wrote to Mr W and attempted  to call on several  occasions  to let him know  of 
the outstanding overdrawn amount and that he needed to make  some payments to reduce 
the balance. HSBC say Mr W wasnt engaging  with them and often avoided talking to them. 
So they defaulted his account  in October 2018 and passed the debt to a third party.  They 
say this defaulted account will stay on his credit  file for six years.  Mr W says he has chosen 
not to pay the outstanding overdraft amount and wants this debt cleared.
HSBC also offered Mr W £50 compensation when Mr W contacted them  after receiving his 
final response letter as he remained unhappy with HSBCs outcome. But Mr W didnt accept 
this.
Ref: DRN37396492Since the complaint has come to our service, HSBC told us Mr W was given incorrect 
information that if he repaid the outstanding debt then the default would be removed from his 
credit file. Theyve confirmed this wont be the case and the default will remain  on Mr Ws 
credit file for six years. They offered Mr W £100  compensation in recognition of having 
misled Mr W about this.
In total, HSBC have  offered £250  in compensation, which Mr W hasnt accepted.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. In summary, she said:
having looked at the online  application  Mr W completed, he hadnt selected the 
account switching  option. So she didnt think HSBC had done anything  wrong.
HSBC had done enough  to keep Mr W informed  of his account  status  and had made 
several attempts  to contact Mr W to discuss his account but there were times  where  
Mr W declined  to speak to them. Therefore, she felt HSBC defaulted the account in 
line with their process. So she didnt ask HSBC  to remove the default  from Mr Ws 
credit file.
She felt HSBCs  explanation that they dont  allow repayment  of a debt with a credit 
card was fair and reasonable.
She agreed it was fair for HSBC to refund the fees and interest applied when Mr W 
contacted them  in June 2018  and agreed the total compensation amount of £250 
offered to Mr W by HSBC was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he did select to complete an account switch at the time of his 
application. He also didnt accept the £250  total compensation offered by HSBC. Mr W also 
says he wasnt aware  HSBC had applied a default  on his account  and as a result  of this, 
hes now in financial difficulty. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
current account switch
Mr W says HSBC failed to complete  the current account switch that he asked them to do 
when he applied for the current  account.  HSBC have sent me a copy  of Mr Ws online 
application. I can see in the section called  Account  switching Mr W hasnt selected yes to 
this option. He wouldve been  required to include  details of the old bank account that he 
wanted to switch from. But I cant see this has been  done.
HSBC have also sent me a copy of the welcome  letter that was sent to Mr W after opening 
his account. This letter also includes details of how to do a current account  switch. It asked 
Mr W to get in touch with HSBC by phone if he wanted more information  on how this could 
be done. But I cant see that Mr W did get in touch with them about this after the letter  had 
been sent out. 
As I cant  see any evidence of Mr W instructing  HSBC to carry out a current  account switch,  I 
dont think HSBC did anything wrong.
not being able to pay the overdrawn balance with a credit card
Ref: DRN37396493Mr W says he offered  to pay the outstanding overdrawn balance using a credit card he held 
with a different  bank.  But HSBC wouldnt allow him to do this as it merely transfers the debt 
from one account  to another and they believe this to be unethical. 
I can appreciate Mr W wanted to use a credit  card to pay off the overdrawn  balance on his 
current account. But I can understand why HSBC didnt think this was a good idea. I think 
regardless of whether HSBC carried out an affordability check at the time,  its not unusual  for 
banks to refuse to allow overdraft debts to be repaid using  a credit card as that simply 
moves the debt around. So I dont think HSBC  made  a mistake by not allowing this, but the 
bank offered Mr W £100 for not following its usual processes  and I think  thats fair.
account default and reporting  conduct to the credit reference agencies
HSBC defaulted  Mr Ws account  and told the credit  reference agencies  about this because  
he made limited payments to the account after opening it and spending money which  took 
him into the overdraft.  Mr W doesnt think this was fair and wants the outstanding  amount to 
be written off and the default removed from his credit file. So Ive looked at whether HSBC 
acted fairly.
When HSBC offered Mr W his overdraft facility, they sent him a letter  confirming some  of the 
terms of the overdraft. One of the terms clearly  explain that Mr W must make  regular 
payments to the account when he was overdrawn  and if he didnt, HSBC may contact him to 
ask for payment. 
HSBC have sent me copies of some letters they sent to Mr W letting him know about the 
outstanding overdrawn  amount which Ive carefully looked at. I can see the letters make it 
clear what  the outstanding amount  was at the time, that Mr W was required to make  regular  
payments and they also asked Mr W to contact HSBC to discuss repayment options. I can 
see these letters were  addressed correctly to Mr W, so I think  HSBC did enough  to make 
Mr W aware that he needed to make  regular repayments to his overdraft.
Ive also looked  through  HSBCs  internal contact  notes.  I can see on several occasions 
HSBC tried to call Mr W to discuss the outstanding overdrawn balance.  But there were times 
where Mr W didnt  want to provide  security  details so the call didnt continue  and also times 
where Mr W hung up. 
I appreciate Mr W may have felt overwhelmed  by the amount of contact he received from 
HSBC. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to attempt to engage  with Mr W 
about the outstanding  debt as set out in their initial letter to Mr W when he successfully 
applied for the overdraft.  
I cant see any evidence to show Mr W made  regular payments toward  the overdrawn 
balance as set out in the terms - I can see from the current account statements Mr W only 
made one payment of £100  towards the overdrawn  balance in June  2018.  
I can understand Mr Ws frustration that his account has been  defaulted and this is showing 
on his credit file. But he ran up the debt on the account and didnt pay it back  even after  
HSBC told him he had to and warned  him the account could be defaulted if he didnt do so. 
The banks records suggest Mr W did speak with them about the debt and he made one 
payment towards  it in June 2018,  so Im satisfied he knew  he owed the bank  some  money  
and the bank gave him ample  chance  to pay it back before defaulting the account. 
Ref: DRN37396494As the overdrawn balance wasnt repaid, HSBC sent Mr W a final demand letter in 
September 2018. This letter notified  Mr W that his details had been passed to three  credit  
reference agencies.  It again reiterated the adverse impact this could have  on Mr Ws ability 
to obtain any future  credit.  
Whilst Im sorry to hear the impact the defaulted  account has had on Mr W, for the reasons 
given above, I cant say HSBC did anything wrong in defaulting the account and reporting 
this to the credit reference agencies.
Mr W says he wants  the outstanding debt cleared. However, I dont think it would  be fair to 
instruct HSBC to do this as Mr W has had use of those funds.
compensation already offered
In terms of the £250 compensation  HSBC have offered Mr W, I think  this is fair in all the 
circumstances of the complaint given the upset and frustration Mr W has likely suffered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3739649