K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the sale of her Standard Life Assurance Limited annuity.
background
Mrs K had a pension with Standard Life. In March 2013, she called Standard  Life about her 
options. She decided to extend her retirement age because she was still working. The 
following month, she called in and said she had changed her mind  and she wanted to take 
her pension. She took a tax free lump sum of approximately £6,000  and an annuity  with 
Standard Life  that pays her just under £80 per month.
Mrs K is unhappy that she couldnt, and still cant,  take her entire  pension  as a lump sum. 
And she says it wasnt made  clear  to her that she was purchasing an annuity. She says she 
wouldnt ever knowingly buy an annuity  after an unhappy experience  with one previously.  
Mrs K also says Standard  Life told her in 2016  that the government was thinking about 
changing the rules  to allow annuities  to be swapped for a cash  sum. She says she took out a 
loan in the expectation of being able to do this. But the government subsequently decided  
against changing the rules in this way, meaning  Mrs K has no choice but to continue  with her 
annuity. 
Mrs K complained to Standard Life in 2016  about the information she was given about 
potentially being  able to cash in her annuity.  Standard Life didnt  uphold  her complaint but 
Mrs K didnt refer her complaint on to us. Mrs K complained again in 2018 about her annuity. 
Again, Standard Life didnt uphold her complaint. This time, Mrs K did ask us to look into the 
matter. Our investigator didnt think Standard  Life had done anything  wrong given  the rules  
in place at the time. And, having listened to the calls between the parties from 2013, he 
didnt think the sales process was unclear  either. Mrs K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her case again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
First of all, its worth  pointing out that my decision wont look at the information Standard  Life 
gave to Mrs K in 2016 about potentially being  able to cash  in her annuity and the loan she 
says she took as a result.  This issue was dealt with by Standard  Life at the time and Mrs K 
didnt pursue it any further. I will limit my decision to those areas that Standard Life 
subsequently dealt with in 2018, which essentially relate to the original sale of the annuity 
rather than the information she was given  approximately three  years  later.   
With this in mind, my starting point here is the April 2013 telephone conversation between 
the parties during which Mrs K bought her annuity. Ive listened  to this call carefully,  and Im 
satisfied it was made clear to Mrs K that she was taking 25% of her pension  as a tax free 
lump sum, with the remainder of her pension being converted to a regular income to be paid 
for the rest of her life  an annuity.  Some quotations  from the call illustrate this:
Customer Adviser: All our pensions are paid to you for the rest of your lifetimefor  as long 
as youre alive
Ref: DRN34553452Customer Adviser: How often would you like your pension paid to you?
Mrs K: I dont knowif its a small amount, maybe every three months.
Customer Adviser: youre looking at quarterly payment paid to you for the rest of your 
lifetime level on your life only with no guaranteeseven if you passed away in a years  time 
it will just stop. Is that OK?
Mrs K: Yes
Other options are also discussed including the potential  for Mrs K to have increasing 
payments every year, take a tax free lump sum, include spouses benefits, or guarantee 
payments for a 10 year period (so that payments would be made for at least  10 years  even  if 
Mrs K passed away in that period). Various quotes  for Mrs Ks pension are provided,  along 
with the amount of tax free cash she could take. The call concludes with Mrs K giving her 
bank details and the customer adviser  summarising  her purchase as follows: 
Customer Adviser: we will get the money released today so it will be in your bank account 
by Friday. That will be your first monthly  pension and your tax free lump sum.
Mrs K: OK, fine
Its also worth mentioning that the call doesnt  appear to have been rushed and Mrs K 
appeared to be highly engaged throughout. She asks questions all the way through, 
requests clarification on a number of points (especially in relation to the 10 year guarantee 
period) and she even  changes her mind about  one aspect of her annuity (opting for quarterly 
payments originally but then monthly  payments).  She was also told that paperwork would 
follow and that she had a 30 day cooling-off period. So she had the opportunity to reflect  on 
what she was doing and change her mind  if she had wanted to.
Given all the above, Im satisfied that it was made clear to Mrs K that she was converting her 
pension into a tax free lump sum and a monthly  pension  an annuity  to be paid for the 
rest of her life. 
Its true that her pension payments werent referred  to as an annuity. It seems 
Standard Life were trying to avoid industry jargon and referred  to Mrs K receiving  a monthly 
pension or a monthly payment rather than an annuity. But I dont think  it matters that 
Standard Life took this approach given it made  it clear to Mrs K what she was buying.
I recognise that the rules changed in 2015  meaning  people no longer have to buy an annuity 
when taking their retirement benefits (a change  often  referred  to as pension freedoms).  So 
had Mrs K taken her pension two years later, she would have been able to access her 
pension in one go rather than having to buy an annuity.  I recognise  how frustrating this must  
be for Mrs K. But I can only hold Standard Life responsible for the rules in place in 2013, 
which were more restrictive. I recognise that Mrs K is also aggrieved  that the government 
was thinking about, but ultimately decided against, changing the rules to allow people who 
had already bought their annuity to swap their annuity payments for a lump  sum. The 
governments change  of heart is unfortunate for Mrs K. Even so, I cant  hold Standard Life 
responsible for the governments decision to not change  the rules.  
Mrs K has also mentioned that its theft that Standard Life is keeping  her money and that 
she wont live long enough to earn back the cost of her annuity. Its certainly true that some  
people wont  live long enough to earn back the purchase cost of an annuity. But the 
converse is also true  many people will earn back more than they paid. Therefore, whilst I 
Ref: DRN34553453cant say what will happen in Mrs Ks case, I can say the odds arent necessarily stacked 
against her in the way she suggests. Its also worth  reiterating that Mrs Ks annuity  will 
continue to pay out however long she lives for, and whatever happens to investment 
markets. So, rather like other  types of insurance,  it provides certainty  and peace  of mind and 
judging it purely  in terms of how much  money  is, ultimately, paid out doesnt give the full 
picture.
Finally, Standard Life has indicated that it is looking at a number of its historic annuity  sales, 
including Mrs Ks sale. The areas Standard Life will look at as part of this review  will be 
different, and may well be wider  in scope, than the issues  Mrs K has complained  about  here.  
Its entirely possible, therefore, that certain  aspects of Mrs Ks sale will be found to have 
been unsatisfactory. Even so, in relation to the particular issues Mrs K has raised here,  Im 
satisfied Standard Life hasnt done anything wrong.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K in this way.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3455345