K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  transferred funds without 
authority from joint accounts held with his late mother and closed his sole account 
without any warning. He also complains that Halifax didnt deal with his personal data 
request.
background
Mr S held a sole account with Halifax. In 2017,  Halifax warned Mr S about his 
behaviour towards  staff and gave him notice of its intention to close his account. 
Despite that, the account stayed open.
Mr S also held joint accounts with his mother.  Sadly, Mr Ss mother died and Halifax  wrote 
to Mr S to tell him what would happen  with the joint accounts following her death. It said 
that, as there was a dispute between  the next of kin and executor to the estate (Mr S later 
found that this was his sister  from whom  he was estranged), it had blocked her accounts, 
including the joint accounts held with Mr S. To resolve this, Halifax said that all parties 
needed to come to an agreement  to allow funds to be released.
Mr S complained to Halifax,  making a data subject  access request at around the same 
time. Following an investigation,  the Complaints Manager (CM)  called Mr S to discuss his 
complaint. The CM told Mr S that after a thorough investigation, Halifax  had decided  that 
the funds from the joint accounts between Mr S and his late mother  would be transferred 
to the executor of her estate.
Following further discussion with Mr S, the CM told him that Halifax  would immediately be 
closing his sole account due to his behaviour  towards its staff. The CM later confirmed 
these decisions in writing  and said that Halifaxs decision  regarding  the joint account was 
based on the fact that the funds in the joint accounts mainly came  from Mr Ss late mother.
Mr S was unhappy with a number of issues, including the CMs  handling of his complaint 
and the decision  to transfer the funds in the joint accounts in addition to his original 
concerns.
Halifax sent Mr S its final response letter (FRL).  Amongst other things it said that its 
decision to release the funds to the executor  of the estate followed discussion between  
several areas of the bank and was not made by the CM. But Halifax felt that the call with 
the CM wasnt handled as well as it could  have been, so awarded £50 compensation to 
recognise that. It also said that it had the right to close  Mr Ss sole account due to his 
behaviour. Halifax  invited Mr S to contact our service if he was unhappy  with its response.
Shortly after, Mr S referred his complaint to us. He said that he was distressed to find out 
from Halifax that his mother had died, as his sister  hadnt told him. He said he was unclear 
why his sole account had been  closed and asked for it to be reopened. He didnt think  £50 
awarded by Halifax  was enough  for the upset hed suffered, particularly given the 
immediate closing of his sole account.  He also said nobody had contacted him about the 
history of the joint accounts with his late mother before deciding to transfer the funds to the 
executor of her estate.
Ref: DRN30937322my provisional decision
I sent Mr S and Halifax my provisional decision on 7 February 2020. I explained why I 
thought Mr Ss complaint should be partly  upheld. Ive included  the relevant sections of my 
reasoning below. 
Mr S says that Halifax told him his mother had died and that that was distressing for 
him. And I can entirely  appreciate that. I cant say for certain if Halifax would have  
known that Mr S hadnt already been told about his mothers death. So, I cant say that 
it did anything wrong in telling him, particularly as it had to write to him about  their joint 
accounts. But, it does  seem to me given the sensitivity of the message to Mr S, that 
Halifax might  have  gone about  it in a different way. For instance,  by telephoning him 
first before delivering  the message in writing.  So, I think Halifax should now apologise to 
Mr S for its handling of this matter.
Turning now to the main  points of Mr Ss complaint:
Halifax transferred funds from joint accounts  with his late mother without authority.
Generally, when a holder of a joint account dies, the other account holder becomes the 
sole owner of the account under the right  of survivorship. The balance of the account 
doesnt usually  form part of the deceased  persons estate.  But such  an arrangement is 
capable of being challenged, particularly where the deceased was the main  contributor of 
the account balance and their intentions might have been  different. Such  issues are 
usually resolved between the parties, sometimes by court action.
Here though, Halifax took the decision to determine  ownership of the money in the 
account. So Ive thought  carefully about whether Halifax  acted fairly in taking the action 
that it did.
Given that Mr S wasnt aware  of his mothers death until Halifax told him, its unlikely  that 
hed have been in a position to supply the bank with her death certificate to gain access  to 
the funds. And, at the same  time,  Halifax said it was aware of a dispute involving the 
executor of her estate,  so I appreciate that it was faced  with a difficult  problem. Given this, I 
think its initial approach  seemed  sensible. The parties with a potential interest should 
resolve the dispute and Halifax would freeze the accounts in the meantime. That would 
have allowed the parties to seek  independent advice if necessary and Halifax  would have 
been able to step in later on once ownership  had been sorted  out.
But Halifax  then decided on a very different approach, so Ive thought  about  whether its 
next steps were  also reasonable.
Halifax told Mr S that it had carried out a thorough investigation and having  done so, it 
decided to transfer the funds to the executor  of his late mothers  estate  his sister. And I 
can fully appreciate that thats likely to have been  a complete surprise  to Mr S, given his 
expectations as the joint account  holder. Mr S also said that that investigation didnt 
include speaking to him. And I do think Mr S has a point.
Im satisfied that Halifax has carried out an investigation, but I cant  say that it acted fairly 
in doing so. Thats because to take a balanced view about the circumstances surrounding 
the account, Id have  expected Halifax to have  spoken to all parties who felt they had an 
interest in the accounts and their funds.  But particularly  to Mr S given that he was the joint 
Ref: DRN30937323account holder.  So, Im inclined to agree with Mr S that to some  extent at least, Halifax  
appears to have been swayed by what the executor  had to say.
And Im also inclined to say that, on balance, Halifax appears to have  strayed into matters 
that might  more comfortably have  sat with a different authority such as the courts to 
decide. Whilst Ive no doubt that Halifax thought  it was being helpful, Im not persuaded 
the bank was best placed to decide  on the matter of ownership in a case such  as this 
where there  was likely to be a clear difference of opinion about what  should happen to the 
money in the accounts.
That said,  Im not minded  to say that Im any better placed to decide whether Mr S or the 
estate is entitled  to the funds in the account.  Its not for me to say whether Halifaxs 
decision on this issue was the right one, nor can I say whether Halifax  would  have made a 
different decision if it had spoken  to Mr S. So, I cant say that Mr S has suffered a loss, as 
the issue of whether he or the estate is the true owner of the account balances  remains a 
matter of dispute. So, I cant properly direct Halifax  to refund the money to Mr S that it paid 
to the executors of his late mothers estate. If Mr S still wishes  to pursue  a claim for the 
account funds,  it seems to me that his most  appropriate route is via his late mothers 
estate.
However, Ive thought  about the extent of the inconvenience that these events  are likely 
to have caused Mr S. Given the dispute between  Mr S and the estate about what  should  
happen to the funds,  I think  its likely  that with the account  being frozen,  Mr S would in 
any event have had to take some  form of action to resolve that dispute. I cant  say that in 
this respect hes been any more  inconvenienced  By Halifaxs actions. In light of that, I 
make no award in relation to this particular aspect.
But, having  carefully considered the circumstances of this case  and unless I receive  further 
evidence to consider,  Im likely to find that Mr S has been caused unnecessary upset by 
the way that Halifax went  about things. So, I think Halifax  needs to address that now and 
Ive set out below what  I think  Halifax needs to do to put things right.
Halifax closed Mr Ss sole account without warning.
Mr S says that Halifax closed his sole account  without warning and that he was unclear 
why Halifax took the action that it did. I appreciate Mr Ss point and Ill now explain why.
In the same  way that staff who work in financial businesses are expected  to behave in 
a certain way, policies  are generally in place,  which set out the standards of behaviour 
expected from customers. And I dont think thats unreasonable.
Im aware that Halifax has a policy of this kind. And, Ive seen that Halifax warned 
Mr S about  his behaviour towards its staff as early as 2017. And, it then gave him 
sixty days notice of its intention to close his account. That doesnt seem  an 
unreasonable step for Halifax to take if it thought it necessary.
But, having  given  its warning, Halifax didnt  then go on to close the account. And its 
been unable  to explain to me why that was. But it does  seem to me that Halifax is likely 
to have given  Mr S mixed  messages about  the seriousness with which  it viewed his 
behaviour and the steps that it was likely to take as a result.
And the evidence suggests that the next time Mr S was given a warning about his 
Ref: DRN30937324behaviour was during a telephone call with the CM in March 2019.  Ive listened to the 
recording of that call and its clear that the CM found Mr Ss behaviour  unacceptable. But I 
can also see from the evidence that Mr S didnt think the CM handled the call well either, 
so Halifax gave him £50 compensation. That seems  a reasonable outcome.
Im satisfied from what Ive heard in the call recordings, that it wasnt unreasonable for 
Halifax to take the action  that it did. And it appears  to have followed its own policies in 
doing so. But I do think, given the time that had elapsed since  its previous warnings, that 
Halifax should have  given Mr S renewed  notice of its intention to close  the account rather  
than close it immediately. That would have given Mr S the opportunity to make other 
arrangements.
And, given  Halifaxs  previous inaction  despite warnings, I can appreciate why Mr S might 
not have felt clear  at this point about the reasons for closing his account.  Mr S says that he 
suffered inconvenience because of this in trying  to open a new bank account whilst 
ensuring that payments in and out of his account werent adversely affected. I can 
appreciate his point.
So, taking everything  into account, Im minded  to say that Halifax acted reasonably when 
it decided to close Mr Ss account.  But I dont think it went  about it in a reasonable way. 
And Ive set out below  the action  that Halifax should now take to address this.
Halifax didnt deal with a request for Mr Ss personal  data.
Mr S is concerned that Halifax  hasnt dealt with his request for his personal data. And 
he believes  that this was a delaying tactic  on Halifaxs part whilst it sorted out the 
issues concerning  the joint accounts.  Ive seen no evidence to suggest thats the case.
Under the General Data Protection  Principles  Regulations, individuals have the right to 
access their personal data. This is typically known as a data subject access  request. There  
are strict expectations and timeframes  for organisations to identify and comply  with 
requests. The Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO) has guidelines for dealing with 
such requests, including what to do if there are doubts about the identity of the person 
making the request. In these  circumstances,  the ICO says that the organisation can ask for 
identification, but requirements should be only as is necessary to confirm the identity and 
should be proportionate.
Halifax says that Mr S gave the wrong details,  so it asked him to visit a branch with his 
identification. But Mr S thinks  this wasnt reasonable,  as Halifax  had been  happy to 
discuss his accounts  by phone.
Halifax was concerned because Mr S gave the wrong date of birth. And, whilst Ive seen 
that most  of the details matched, hed given the wrong month of birth. And as hed 
completed an online form, I think thats likely to have been  a typing error.
But it seems  to me that Halifax  had other  means of identifying Mr S if it was concerned,  
including confirming his address and postcode  and the middle name  hed provided. 
It could also have asked  additional security questions, such as his transaction  history as it 
did when it verified  his identity by phone. But I cant see that it did any of those things. 
And whilst,  dependent on the answers  given, Halifax might still have thought it necessary 
for Mr S to visit a branch,  I think that would have been a more  proportionate response.
Ref: DRN30937325So, unless I receive  further information, Im inclined to say that Halifax  hasnt dealt with 
Mr S fairly. As, Ive set out below, Im minded to direct Halifax to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience that its handling of this matter caused Mr S. In addition  and assuming Mr S 
still wants his request to be processed, I direct  Halifax to contact him to confirm his identity 
to enable the request to be processed.
response to my provisional  decision 
Halifax accepted  my provisional findings.  Mr S sent me further evidence and background 
information, including relating to the joint accounts  with his mother.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  carefully about my 
provisional findings and what Mr S had to say about  them  including whether the 
information that he sent me would lead me to change my decision. And, Im not persuaded 
that it would. Ill explain  why. 
I appreciate why Mr S wants  me to take account of the bank statements he sent me, which 
he says show that he also paid money into the accounts. And I can also see why he might  
think I should change  my decision because of that. I said in my provisional decision  why I 
didnt think Halifax was best placed  to say who owned the funds  in the account. But I also 
said why I dont think Im best placed to make that decision either.  I dont think the additional 
information that Mr S sent me, or any other comments  hes made, would lead me to say 
anything differently about that. 
Mr S told me that his dispute isnt with the executor of the estate,  but with Halifax,  not least 
because he hasnt communicated with the executor for a long time. Whilst I can appreciate  
Mr Ss point,  the money in question did pass to the executor. It doesnt seem  fair to me that, 
if what Mr S says is true and the estate  has been  unjustly enriched,  it would be for the bank 
to address that because Mr S doesnt  want to deal with the executor. I remain  of the opinion  
that, based on the way things currently stand, Mr Ss most appropriate route  now is to seek 
legal advice about whether he can make a claim against his late mothers estate.   
Mr S also says he didnt know that Halifax based its decision on the fact that his mother 
regularly contributed to the accounts. Ive seen that in CMs letter sent in mid-March 2019, 
he said that part of Halifaxs decision  to transfer  the funds was because  it felt that his mother 
was the main contributor to the account. But I appreciate that Mr S says he didnt  know 
about this. In my provisional findings,  I said that Halifax didnt involve Mr S in its 
investigation, so I dont think anything Mr S said in response would lead me to say anything 
different now. 
I say that because irrespective of whether Mr S received Halifaxs  March  letter  or not, thats 
not the same as being involved in the investigation.  And, Ive already  commented on the fact 
that Halifax didnt  do that and what it needs to do now to address that. I see no reason to 
amend my findings  in light of Mr Ss response.
Mr S has given  me background information  about why Halifax might not have closed his 
account in 2017 after warning him that it would do so. Hes thinks its because Halifax upheld 
a complaint that hed made  about its customer service and then paid him compensation and 
Ref: DRN30937326refunded miscalculated  interest. Halifax wasnt able to explain why it hadnt  closed  the 
account at the time.
Ive thought about this and, on balance, Im more persuaded by Mr Ss version  of events 
than Halifaxs. Thats because its perfectly plausible that having  warned  Mr S about  his 
behaviour, Halifax  identified that its own customer service hadnt been to the standard 
expected and because of that, I can see how it might not have  felt it appropriate to close  the 
account after all. But, if thats the case, Id have  expected Halifax to have explained  why it 
hadnt closed  the account despite its warnings. In any event, its what happened in 2019  that 
Mr S is complaining about,  so Im limiting  my findings to Halifaxs  decision to close the 
account in 2019 without  warning. And, having thought  about  it again, its clear that Halifax 
didnt find Mr Ss behaviour acceptable  and, given that, I think  it was entitled to close  his 
account. But, Im still of the opinion that Halifax should have warned Mr S first, so that he 
could make other arrangements. 
Taking everything into account,  I partly uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Ss complaint. 
I direct  Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to:
1)Apologise to Mr S for the manner  in which it contacted him about his mothers 
death;
2)Pay Mr S compensation of £200  (in addition to the £50 Halifax has already 
awarded) for the upset and inconvenience caused  as a result of the following;
oIts failure to discuss the joint account  funds with Mr S before it 
made a decision  to transfer  them;
oIts failure to give Mr S appropriate warning  and an opportunity to make 
other arrangements before it closed his sole bank account.
oThe way in which it dealt with his data subject access request.
3)Contact Mr S and, assuming he still wishes to pursue his data subject 
access request and confirms his identity, enable the request  to be 
processed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3093732