K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains on behalf of Mr H that Creation Financial Services Limited  continued to send 
letters and make telephone calls requesting payment when it had been advised that Mr H 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. Hes also unhappy that interest continued to be 
charged to the account.
background 
In February 2014  Mr H opened  an account  with Creation and was given a credit  limit of 
£2000. This was increased to £2600  in October  2016.
In December 2017 Mr H contacted Creation and made  it aware that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. 
In January 2018 Mr H provided authority for Mr A to act on his behalf. Mr A wrote  to Creation 
on several occasions but didnt receive  a  response  to all of his letters. Creation continued to 
contact Mr H directly.  
Mr A wrote to Creation in January 2018  explaining  the extent of Mr Hs financial and medical  
difficulties. Creation continued to charge interest to the account.
Mr A wants  Creation to stop contacting Mr H directly. He also wants Creation  to stop 
charging interest to the account  and provide  the information hes requested.
In its final response,  which was issued after the complaint  was made to this service,  Creation 
said that because  it had been told about  Mr Hs difficulties in December 2017,  it would 
remove all interest and charges from that date onwards. It also said it would accept 20% of 
the balance in full and final settlement.
Mr A said he was unable  to accept the settlement offer was fair until Creation provided  him 
with further information about  the account.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said Creation couldve done more  to help Mr A 
and that the settlement offer was fair. The investigator also said that Creation should provide  
the information Mr A had requested and stop contacting Mr H directly.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the settlement offer wasnt fair because he had previously  offered 
20% in full and final settlement but Creation  had refused to accept it and had continued to 
pursue Mr H causing him distress.  He also said that other creditors  had agreed to write off 
Mr Hs debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered how Creation treated Mr H when  he told it he was experiencing difficulties. 
When a consumer gets into financial difficulties, a business should treat them in a positive 
and sympathetic way, in line with the relevant guidance. 
Ref: DRN39060692Mr H contacted Creation  in December 2017 to let it know he was experiencing difficulties. Its 
not clear how much  information Mr H provided but by January 2018  Mr A had contacted 
Creation on behalf  of Mr H and had provided full details of his financial and medical 
difficulties.
I would have expected Creation to have contacted  Mr H (or Mr A) to discuss the situation 
and see what could  be done to get the account  back on track. I cant see that this happened. 
So I think Creation  could have done more at this stage. In January 2018 I can see that 
Creation placed  a 30 day hold on the account but I cant  see that any steps were taken to 
see whether an affordable  plan could be put in place for Mr H.
Ive reviewed the correspondence  which was sent to Mr H at this time. Even though  Mr A 
had authority to act on behalf of Mr H, Creation continued to send letters  to Mr H asking him 
to provide details  about his financial situation.  This should not have happened.
I can also see that after the expiration of the 30 day hold, interest  continued to be charged to 
the account. Whilst theres  no obligation on Creation to freeze interest,  I wouldve expected it 
to respond to Mr H in a positive and sympathetic way. I cant  see that it did this.
In the meantime, Mr A had written several  times  to Creation  seeking  further  information.  A 
number of these  letters werent answered.
In the circumstances I think Creation couldve done more to help Mr H. In response  to this 
complaint, Creation has removed all interest  and charges  since December 2017. It has also 
offered to accept 20% of the remaining balance in full and final settlement.
I appreciate that Mr A doesnt  feel that the settlement  offer is fair. He says that Creation 
previously refused to accept an offer of 20% of the balance. Whilst this has undoubtedly 
been a distressing time for Mr H and his family, theres no obligation on a business to accept 
less than the full balance  owed. Nor is there any obligation to write off a balance  simply 
because a customer is experiencing  financial difficulties, or because  other lenders have  
responded in this way.
On balance, and taking into account  all of the circumstances of the complaint, I think  
Creation could have done  more to help Mr H when he told it about  his financial difficulties. If 
Creation hadnt  offered to waive charges and interest already I would be asking it to do so. 
To resolve  the complaint  now I think the settlement offer of 20% is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Creation  Financial Services  Limited should:
Accept 20% of the balance (£506.26) in full and final settlement  of the debt
Provide Mr A with the outstanding information he requires in relation to the account
Update its systems to make sure that Mr H isnt contacted directly about the account
Ref: DRN39060693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3906069