K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a secured 
loan. Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold this policy  to them.  
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a secured loan for £15,000 in 2001  over a repayment  period of 5 
years. At the same time they bought  a PPI policy to protect their loan repayments in the 
event of Mr C becoming unable to work or losing his job. Mrs C wasnt covered on the policy.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr and Mrs C 
disagreed with this and its been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Weve spoken  at length to Halifax about  these types of loans and as a consequence we 
know quite a bit about how they were generally sold.  We know, for example,  that consumers 
normally met with a branch advisor  to discuss their requirements. And we know  that as a 
result of that discussion,  a credit agreement was produced with all the relevant details on it. 
The consumer was then invited to check and sign the agreement to complete the process.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit agreement  for this loan. It appears to be the type of 
form Ive seen many times  before and theres  a section on it about PPI. There was a box 
available to either say yes or no to having  PPI with their loan. The yes box was selected 
and the other one was left blank. Because they also both signed  this form, I think  this 
strongly shows Mr and Mrs C agreed  to have the PPI and would have known it was optional.
A central  theme of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that they knew nothing  about the PPI cover 
with their loan. But I think  the above  shows this cant be right.  Halifax also said Mr C made a 
successful claim  on the policy for unemployment  and was paid out over several months.  
Obviously he wouldnt have been  able to do this if he knew nothing about the policy.
Halifaxs sales processes  usually meant that these types of sales were advised sales. This 
means the PPI was recommended to them and so Halifax had a duty to make sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs. Mr and Mrs C said the PPI wasnt suitable  because 
they didnt need it. But I think it clearly was.
I think this because this was a long-term loan secured against their home.  So the 
consequences of not being  able to keep up payments  could have been serious. Mr C says 
he had some protection from sickness at work. But in my view, this doesnt make the policy 
unsuitable.
This is because the unemployment and sickness protection in the policy lasted much longer 
than what Mr C had in place with his job, and at £30 per month I dont  think  this wouldve 
Ref: DRN35576462been unaffordable. As we now know, in the event  of a successful claim, the policy  couldve 
covered the loan repayments for 1 year for unemployment  and for 5 years in the event of 
sickness. This was in addition to any other  means they had in place. So I think the policy  
was suitable.
I cant say Mr and Mrs C would have been told everything they should have been. But I note 
the costs of both the loan and PPI were shown on the agreement they both signed. So I 
think they knew the costs  and who was covered. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but Im afraid  I think the evidence is very strong indeed 
that they asked  for this cover. They also would have been  able to see it was optional and 
they knew it had been set up for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. And I dont direct  
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3557646