K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Lloyds Bank Plc (when  it was trading as TSB) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr E took out in 1995  when he applied  for a credit card. 
Although Lloyds couldnt say how the PPI was sold, Mr E says he made his application in 
one of the banks branches and he recalls speaking to an advisor. So he may well be right 
about that and I've taken  this into account  when thinking about his complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr E disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
In summary,  Mr E says that he didnt want or need PPI. He said he was just told where to 
sign the application and he wasnt given any proper information about the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think Lloyds made  Mr E aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this 
because the application form Mr E completed made it clear that it was up to Mr E to say if he 
wanted PPI - and hes ticked  to say he required it. There was also an option on the form to 
say that PPI wasnt required  and Mr E put N here, confirming  his wish to have the cover 
being offered.  
Where Mr E signed the form at the end it says: Sign it only if you want to be legally 
bound So I think its reasonable  to expect that Mr E wouldve looked carefully over the 
completed application before signing to make sure it reflected his wishes. And what he says 
about the way he was sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. 
On balance, I find that Mr E wouldve known at the time that it was up to him to choose if he 
wanted to protect  his repayments - and he signed  the completed form confirming that he 
wanted to do this. 
As Lloyds  wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr E, it said in fairness to him it would treat this 
as an advised  sale  so, as if it had personally recommended PPI to him. This means  Lloyds 
not only had to give Mr E important policy information  in a clear  way. It also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for him. So Ive 
looked at Mr Es complaint with this in mind. 
It doesnt look to me as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr E based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN33811782Mr E was eligible for the PPI.
He had some sick pay entitlement through work  he mentioned hed have  got 6 months  full 
sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve paid 
more than his minimum  credit card repayments  for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr E mightve also had some 
additional costs  if he was too unwell  to go back to work, or disabled, I think  this couldve 
been a useful benefit at a difficult time. And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Es credit 
card repayments if he lost his job unexpectedly  and was out of work. Repeat claims were  
possible.
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Overall, I think PPI was worthwhile for Mr E as it gave him useful protection  he didnt 
otherwise have. 
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr E made a claim. But Mr E chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems  to have wanted  this type of cover.
I cant see that he wouldve been  affected by any of the exclusions or limitations mentioned  
in the policy. And Mr E couldve cancelled the policy at any time if his circumstances 
changed and he no longer  wanted to pay for it.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that having better information wouldve put Mr E off 
taking out the policy.  This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr E.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr E, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN33811783my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3381178