K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
credit card in 2008. Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.  Mrs P says given her sick pay 
entitlement and other means  she had no need for PPI. She said if the costs  and benefits and 
optional nature of the policy had been  made clear, she wouldnt have taken PPI.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Mrs P applied for her credit card on line. Ive seen a sample of the screenshots that 
Barclays says Mrs P wouldve seen at the time she applied for the credit card and 
selected PPI. I think she wouldve had to select PPI before it was added  and it seems to 
me that Barclays explained that PPI was an optional extra.  Ive also seen Barclays  
system records  showing that at the time Mrs P selected PPI. So, I think it likely that 
Mrs P opted  to take PPI, having been told she didnt have to have it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so it didnt have to take steps to check that 
the PPI was right for her. But, it did have  to give her enough information so that she could  
decide for herself if the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  So, I have to go on and consider whether she has lost out because of this. 
I cant see that she has. I think PPI couldve been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. She was eligible  to take out the policy  and I cant  see that 
she was affected  by any of the main limits or exclusions on the policy. She said she 
wouldve got some  sick pay through work,  if she was off sick. But, the policy  wouldve paid 
out on top of Mrs Ps work  benefits  and I cant see that she had any other means of 
making her repayments. Also, it wouldve allowed her to use her work  benefits to meet her 
other living expenses,  at what  might be a difficult time for her financially if she wasnt  
working. I cant see that having  better  information  about the PPI would have  put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs Ps said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs P.
But, Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mrs P about that. Because 
Barclays didnt tell Mrs P, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN37995292To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799529