K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied  with finance  from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
background 
In September  2016 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS.
Mr T experienced the following  issues:
SatNav chip missing
Mirrors not folding automatically
Slow system
Stop/start only working  intermittently  and warning light
Ad Blue warning  light coming on every  other  week
Car broke down  due to a battery issue
Mr T is also unhappy about the sales process. He says he was pressured into buying  the car 
and feels he wasnt given  information about the running costs of the car, including  the costs 
of servicing and parts.
Mr T also says that no checks were carried out to make sure the agreement  was affordable 
for him. He wants to reject  the car and cancel the agreement.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She thought the issues with the battery were 
likely to have caused the problem with the slow system and the stop/start function.  She 
recommended that VWFS  refund Mr T 10% of his monthly repayments from April 2017 when 
the faults were  investigated to January 2019  when  the battery was replaced. The 
investigator didnt  think  the agreement had been mis-sold or that there were any affordability 
issues.
Mr T didnt  agree. He said the dealership had only offered him one car and one finance 
option and that because  he needed  a car urgently for work  he felt that he had no choice but 
to enter  into the agreement. He also said hed had similar cars before but had never had to 
pay such high servicing costs. In relation to affordability, Mr T said although hed paid all his 
monthly instalments,  hed struggled to pay other bills as a result. Mr T was unhappy with the 
redress recommended  by the investigator. He said the battery issue  had affected  him from 
the point of supply and that he would continue to experience the system issues until the end 
of the agreement because these couldnt be fixed.  He felt he should receive a refund of 10% 
of his repayments for the entire term of the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satisfactory quality 
Because VWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied  
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect taking into account all of the 
Ref: DRN39700122circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a new car to be free from minor  defects but I also take into account the 
nature of the defect, when it arose and whether it has been repaired by the supplier.
Mr T has explained  that he didnt report the issue with the SatNav  chip or the Ad Blue light to 
VWFS. So whilst I understand  Mr Ts concerns about these issues, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask VWFS to do anything about them  now.
I can see that the issues with the mirrors, the slow system and the stop/start function  have  
been reported to the dealership after the first 6 months of the point of supply. Under  the 
relevant law its up to Mr T to show that these issues were present or developing at the point 
of supply. If he establishes that (or if the business accepts that) then the business is allowed 
one opportunity to put things right.
The dealership repaired the mirrors in April 2017.  Mr T hasnt reported any ongoing issues  
since then so Im satisfied that the repair was successful
The slow system was investigated in April 2017. No faults were found  and the software 
system was updated. The dealership has explained that each  time a software update  is 
available, the use of the system (including phone use) will be interrupted  until the software 
update has been completed.
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that theres a fault or a manufacturing defect with 
the system. In order to ensure  the effective functioning of the system, Mr T needs  to return to 
the dealership  for software updates.  I appreciate that this has caused (and may continue  to 
cause) a degree  of inconvenience to Mr T but in the absence of a diagnosed fault I cant  
require VWFS to carry out a repair. Nor am I persuaded that this is a defect which warrants  
rejection of the car.
The stop/start function was investigated in June 2018. No fault was found but Mr T has said 
that he continued to experience the issues. It was following this in January 2019  that the car 
broke down  and the battery was replaced.  The dealership has said that low voltage in the 
battery was likely to have caused  the issues with the stop/start system. Since the battery  has 
been replaced Mr T hasnt  reported any further  issues with the stop/start function so Im 
satisfied that the repair  has been  successful.
Mis-sale
Ive taken into account everything Mr T has said about the circumstances of the sale and his 
concern that he was only offered one option.  I find it surprising that a main dealer would only 
offer one choice of car. Information provided  by VWFS  suggests that there were  several  
different models  available to choose from, all of which had deposit contribution deals 
available. I can also see that Mr T was provided  with 3 different  finance options for the car 
he chose. Theres nothing  to suggest that Mr T was forced to choose a particular model of 
car or a particular  finance option. Ultimately it was Mr Ts decision to enter  into the 
agreement. If hed had any doubts about  the model of car or the finance  option, he couldve 
raised these with the dealership, or simply changed  his mind and gone elsewhere. In relation 
to Mr Ts concerns that he was pressured into entering the agreement, I can see that a 
period of 3 weeks  elapsed  between  the proposal of the agreement  and its activation. I think 
this was a reasonable time for Mr T to make a decision about whether or not to enter  the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN39700123Servicing costs
Mr T has expressed  his concerns that the servicing costs for his car exceed those which hes 
paid in the past. The agreement says that Mr T must  have the car serviced and maintained.  I 
wouldve expected  Mr T to make enquiries about  the costs of servicing  before  he entered  
into the agreement  if this was something  he was particularly concerned about. I cant  
comment on the prices charged  by a particular dealership. I appreciate  that Mr T feels that 
the charges are high but Im not in a position  to say whether the charges are out of line with 
what other main dealers  would charge.
Affordability
Mr T has said that no checks were carried out to make  sure the agreement was affordable. 
VWFS hasnt  provided any information  on this point, but I cant see that Mr T has raised it as 
an issue until recently. Whilst  I cant  be certain of exactly what checks  were carried out in Mr 
Ts case, its usual practice for lenders to carry out checks before agreeing to lend money. If 
VWFS, having carried out its checks,  had any concerns about Mr Ts ability to afford the 
repayments, I think this wouldve been  raised with Mr T before the agreement was entered 
into. Moreover, I can see that Mr T has made  all of his repayments on time,  which  suggests 
that the agreement is affordable. Ive noted Mr Ts comments that hes struggled  to pay other 
bills but I havent  seen evidence of any financial difficulties. 
On balance, Im not persuaded  that VWFS should have carried out any additional 
affordability checks.
Taking everything into consideration, Im only able to uphold this complaint in part. Mr T has 
experienced some issues with the car but most of these have been successfully repaired.  I 
appreciate that the slow system continues to be an issue but Im not persuaded that this is a 
fault, rather a software update issue. That said, I can see its caused Mr T distress  and upset.
I understand why Mr T feels  that he should receive  a 10% refund for the duration of the 
agreement but I dont think this would be fair. Mr T didnt report  the slow system 
straightaway and the issue  only seems  to affect  his use of the phone  intermittently. So Im 
mined to agree with the investigators recommendation  that VWFS refund 10% of Mr Ts 
monthly repayments from 1 April 2017 to 31 January 2019. I think  this sum fairly reflects  the 
loss of enjoyment suffered by Mr T.
In relation to the rest of the complaint regarding satisfactory quality, servicing charges and 
affordability, for the reasons Ive given  I dont uphold these aspects.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited should refund 10% of Mr Ts repayments from 1 April 2017  to 31 January  2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3970012