K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mr H says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Mr H and his representative  provided a lot of detail in support of this complaint. So I dont 
doubt the strength of feeling.  Ive read and considered everything theyve said.  However, it 
may be helpful to explain  that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every point thats 
been made  its only to provide my conclusions and reasons  for them.  So while  Id like to 
reassure Mr H that Ive thought carefully about everything, my findings  will be expressed in 
considerably less detail.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr H says the PPI was added without his knowledge and he wasnt given the chance  to opt 
out. I think what Mr H has told us are his honest  recollections of the sale, but hes not told us 
enough about what happened for me fairly  and reasonably uphold the complaint on this 
evidence alone.  And as the policy was sold a long time ago (over  20 years)   this is 
something I need to keep  in mind when deciding what I think  is more likely to have 
happened. 
Due to the length of time thats passed,  neither party have been able to provide  me with any 
documents from the sale. But Lloyds says the PPI wouldve been presented as optional and 
it wouldve  only been added to Mr Hs account  if he had requested  it. Ive also considered 
what weve know about how Lloyds  sold PPI in branch around the time. And from what we 
know of these types of sales, the applicant wouldve usually had to actively select  PPI on his 
credit card application before it was added to his account. So, in the absence of stronger 
evidence to contrary, I think its more likely than not Mr H selected PPI on his application, 
knowing it was something he didnt have to have.  
Mr H says he doesnt think  the policy was recommended to him because he wasnt  aware  of 
the policy until many years later. But Lloyds has treated this as an advised  sale in its 
assessment of the complaint. As things stand,  there  isnt enough information to determine 
this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had Lloyds 
recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been  a suitable recommendation to have made  
for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered the complaint on the same basis 
as Lloyds.
As an advised sale Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mr H  and based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. He wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and it looks  like he had a need  for the policy.
Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and also couldve relied  on his 
family to support  him if he was suddenly out of work.  But help from others isnt guaranteed 
Ref: DRN38150152as their circumstances  can also change.  The PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mr Hs 
outstanding monthly  balance  (up to a maximum of £500) for up to 12 months  and this 
wouldve been in addition to his sick pay. Meaning his sick pay was free to use for other  
expenses if needed.  
Mr H also says he had a life and critical illness insurance policy at the time which he couldve 
claimed on. But this policy  provided cover for different eventualities  than the PPI. So I still 
think he wouldve found the policy useful if he was off sick from work or made redundant. 
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But for the same reasons I think the policy wasnt  unsuitable for him, I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover as it looks like 
the policy would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3815015