K821x#15complaint
Mrs T and Mr C are unhappy TSB Bank  Plc (TSB) hasnt reimbursed them for their losses  
after they transferred  money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
background
In March 2018 Mrs T was cold called  by a scammer posing as an investment company. She 
was persuaded  to transfer £10,000 from a TSB bank  account she shared with Mr C to the 
scammers. She was told the money would be invested and she would receive an 8% return  
and guaranteed no loss if she withdrew  from the investment after 12 months because she 
wasnt satisfied with its performance.
Around four months after the transfer  she was contacted by the police who informed  her the 
account shed  paid the money to was under  investigation as it was linked to fraudulent 
activity. She reported the matter to TSB which tried to retrieve  the funds, but theyd already 
been removed  from the receiving account. It later confirmed it didnt feel it was at fault and 
so wasnt going  to reimburse her for the loss.
Mrs T and Mr C raised a complaint about  the way TSB had handled  the situation. TSB didnt 
change its position  but did offer £300  in recognition of a system  failure  that happened around  
the time Mrs T was contacted by the scammer.  Unhappy with TSBs  response, Mrs T and Mr 
C brought the complaint  to our service to consider.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and asked TSB to reimburse them  for the loss. They 
felt that TSB had missed an opportunity to recognise the transfer was significantly unusual 
activity for this account and make enquiries  into what  it was for. The investigator felt that had 
this been done, TSB wouldve likely  alerted Mrs T to the scam and the payment wouldnt 
have been made. 
Mrs T and Mr C accepted the investigators  findings but TSB didnt. It didnt  feel the 
transaction was unusual  enough to have triggered  an intervention. And, even if it had 
intervened it didnt accept it wouldve prevented Mrs T from making the payment because:
she wouldve told it she was investing in a company that was recommended by a 
trusted family member  who had been investing for years  and had seen good  returns
shed carried out her own research and checks into the investment company
the investigator had acknowledged that she was fully persuaded by the scammers so 
intervention from TSB wouldnt have  changed  this
As TSB didnt accept  the investigators findings  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
should TSB have  done more to prevent the transfer?
Theres no dispute the transfers Mrs T made  were  authorised payments even though  she 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself and under  the 
Ref: DRN37928262Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs T is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators  rules and guidance,  relevant  codes  of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  As such  I think 
TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made  or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing  fraud and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual transactions  or other signs  that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances, irrespective  of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make  additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm  from fraud.  
In this case, I think the transfer of £10,000  ought to have prompted TSB to intervene and ask 
Mrs T and Mr C more  about the payment and what it was for.
Whilst Ive considered TSBs response  regarding this point carefully, the payment  was for 
significantly more than any other transfers  out of the account in the two years leading  up to it 
and was being made to a new payee. I agree  its important to take into account  the other 
factors TSB has mentioned in the round. But I dont think any of the other  considerations, 
such as the overall  balance  across  accounts  or the fact that a consumer might legitimately 
be transferring money between accounts before a particular purchase  was enough here to 
ignore the unusually high value of the transfer and the new payee combined.  
Overall, I think the transfer  ought  reasonably to have prompted  TSB to contact Mrs T and 
Mr C to make further enquiries.
would TSBs  intervention  have made  a difference?
Having considered everything  carefully,  overall I think its more likely that had TSB 
intervened and questioned Mrs T about  the payment as I think  it ought to have,  it wouldve  
learned enough to have  warned her of the scam and the payment wouldnt have been made.  
I think this because:
Had TSB contacted  Mrs T to ask her about the payment I cant  see any reason she 
wouldnt have told it she was making an investment as this is what  she believed  she 
was doing. And after ascertaining this there are a number of enquiries I wouldve 
expected TSB to make. For example,  was she cold called, what  rate of return she 
was offered and did she feel pressured or coerced  into making the payment.
I wouldve expected  TSB to have given Mrs T warnings about  investment scams and 
how she could best protect herself against  them, including directing her to the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  website  which  has specific  pages dedicated to 
avoiding investment scams. Especially as, according to TSBs  records,  the firm had 
indicated to Mrs T it was registered with the FCA but none of the checks  Mrs T had 
carried out appear to have included a search of the FCA register  or its website. 
Ref: DRN37928263Although TSB has recorded Mrs T was referred to the scammers by a family 
member, shes  said she was cold called  and wasnt expecting  any contact from them.  
Shes said when  they contacted her, she recognised the name and made the 
connection theyd  been working  with her father in law which  is why she was happy  to 
continue speaking to them.  And whilst I recognise they did have a contact in 
common, I have no reason to doubt  Mrs Ts recollection of events. Had TSB 
intervened at the time she made the payment, I cant see why she wouldnt have 
confirmed how shed  been contacted by the scammers at that point.
In addition to being cold called Mrs T was offered an 8% return  and guaranteed no 
loss in the first 12 months. In my experience,  thats a fairly  generous  and unlikely 
return given the type of investment  Mrs T was making.  I think  these facts  ought 
reasonably to have  alerted TSB to a potential  problem and prompted it to give Mrs T 
sufficient warning  that what shed described was fairly typical of an investment scam.
On the day she made the transfer  to the scammer, whod  shed spoken  to a number 
of times, Mrs T said theyd started to bombard her with contact, and she felt 
pressured into making the payment  on the spot and before shed received the 
paperwork shed been told they would send.  Had TSB questioned her, I wouldve 
expected it to ask her if shed  felt pressured or coerced  into making the payment  and 
based on what shes said I think its likely she wouldve answered yes. And upon  
learning this, again, I wouldve expected it to recognise this as a warning sign and 
communicated this to her.
A trusted  family member of Mrs T was unfortunately victim  of the same  scam. But at 
the time she made the payment she believed theyd made  a legitimate investment 
and had received  a return. So had she been asked I think  its likely she wouldve said 
she trusted the company for this reason and believed the investment was legitimate. 
But, I think TSB ought to have  considered  this information in the context of the other 
clear warning  signs. Its not uncommon  for scammers to give modest returns  to 
victims in order to lure them into investing further, larger  sums. And as a business 
with experience of this type of scam Id expect  TSB to know  this and have  taken it 
into account where a layperson like Mrs T wouldnt necessarily.  If it had informed her 
that this, along  with the other points Ive mentioned above arent unusual for 
investment scams,  I think she likely wouldve thought twice before  making  the 
transfer.
Mrs T has said she carried out many of her own checks on the scammers before 
making the transfer. She checked Companies  House, searched for articles about 
them, researched the type of investment they said they were involved in and 
searched their address  on the internet. So its clear she recognised the importance of 
working with a reputable firm and she had some awareness that scams exist.  But, as 
a professional business with experience of this type of scam I think TSB ought 
reasonably to have  recognised these types of checks dont offer much  assurance or 
protection against fraud. And, as Ive mentioned above, I think  it ought to have 
directed her to the FCA for further  information.  
Ive also considered whether Mrs T and Mr C should bear some  responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising  
the payment,  Mrs T still believed she was making  a genuine investment. And whilst TSB has 
suggested this means  she wouldnt have been  convinced not to make the payment had it 
Ref: DRN37928264intervened, I disagree.  TSB was the professional in financial matters and Mrs T was the 
layperson. Had it asked  sufficiently probing questions as I think  it ought to have and given 
her sufficient warnings about  how this type of scam worked, I think  its likely it wouldve 
dawned on her that she was the victim of a scam  and the payment wouldnt have been 
made.
In the circumstances, I think TSB missed an opportunity to prevent  Mrs T and Mr C from 
making the payment so it should reimburse this to them. In addition, if the transfer  hadnt  
been made I think the money wouldve likely remained in a savings account. So this amount 
should be reimbursed  together with interest to compensate them for being deprived of the 
money they lost. 
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience Mrs T and Mr C have been caused by 
the scam  and the way TSB handled the situation. It has previously offered £300  for its 
system failure and the customer service its provided  and overall I think  this is fair. If it hasnt 
paid this already  it should do so now.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank  Plc  and therefore require  it to:
Pay Mrs T and Mr C £10,000  
Pay interest on that sum at 8% simple  from the date the money left the account to the 
date of settlement*
If it hasnt  already, pay £300  compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused
* If TSB considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customers to deduct income tax from that interest,  
it should  tell Mrs T and Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T and Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Faye Brownhill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3792826