K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained  that Morgans Ltd failed to monitor  or review their investments/ 
pension annually, contrary  to their agreement, until they contacted it three  years  on. By this 
time the bond  was performing badly and both it and the pension pot were moved to a new 
provider but the transfer  took several  months  due to incorrect paperwork, resulting in an 
unnecessary loss. They also say they were misled about likely returns.
background
Morgans rejected their complaint, both about  the alleged delays and the lack of proactive 
advice. It said that its advisor had regularly sought to contact them but had been  unable to 
do so.
An investigator at this service did not feel their complaint should be upheld.
He said that Morgans had not agreed  to monitor  or review their investments annually,  and 
that the documentation made this clear.  It did offer to do so if Mr and Mrs G specifically 
requested this, the Initial Disclosure document saying:  With regards to any investments 
we arrange for you, these will not be kept under  review, but we will advise  you upon 
request.
He outlined the timeline of the transfer process to the new provider, including  the various 
signatory requirements,  and felt that Morgans  was only responsible for a very small element 
of the overall delay.
He thought that Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about an earlier delay, in 2012, had not been  
raised with Morgans as part of this complaint, and was a separate  issue,  and therefore it 
wasnt appropriate to consider it as part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs G rejected  the investigators view, saying they had never received the Initial  
Disclosure document and the copy Morgans  had recently provided was not specifically 
addressed to them.
In response, the investigator said while the available document was a template he felt it was 
more likely than not that Morgans would  have provided them  with one as a matter  of course 
along with other investment paperwork.  He didnt accept that the document demonstrated 
that ongoing reviews  were  automatic.
Mr and Mrs G did not agree, reiterating  that they had not received key paperwork and that 
their sole contact with Morgans was via an advisor who visited them at their house.  They  
were never given any information  about Morgans and this is probably why they didnt receive 
its Disclosure document. They  still felt that any reasonable  person would have assumed - 
from the letter in question  that ongoing reviews were part of the service.
Morgans said that they had never provided  an active management service and that its 
paperwork made this clear, but that they did offer reviews on request.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32580532Firstly, I am satisfied  that Morgans was not responsible for anything  beyond a very short  
delay; mostly the delays  were due to the various  regulatory requirements involving 
signatures. I am satisfied that the investigator fairly  summarised the timeline and that this 
supports such an interpretation.
Overall, I am satisfied that the investigator fully considered Mr and Mrs Gs points and I 
agree with his conclusions.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3258053