K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  the handling of a buildings insurance claim by 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs Ls house flooded in June 2018.  The damage  to their home was such  that they 
and their family had to move into alternative  accommodation  while  repairs were carried out. 
They were  due to move back into their home in September 2018.  This would have been 
ideal as it would coincide with one of their daughters  starting  primary school. 
Mr and Mrs L raised concerns with Lloyds about the quality of work carried  out on their 
home. Lloyds arranged for extra work  to be carried out to address  these  concerns. But this 
meant that Mr and Mrs L couldnt return home  until November 2018. 
Mr and Mrs L say that they have  suffered  considerable distress  and inconvenience  as a 
result of the poor standard  of workmanship and the prolonged  period in alternative 
accommodation. They say that there has been poor communication from Lloyds and the 
contractors working on their home. 
Mr and Mrs L complained  in October 2018.  Lloyds upheld their complaint, apologised for the 
upset and inconvenience theyd experienced and paid £200 compensation. Mr and Mrs L 
remained unhappy and complained to this Service. They complained about the standard of 
workmanship, the length of time taken to complete the remedial works to an acceptable  
standard, and poor communication from Lloyds. They asked for compensation and to be 
able to change  their insurance cover without extra charge. Our investigator upheld  their 
complaint and recommended an additional £200 compensation for Mr and Mrs L (making a 
total of £400). Lloyds has agreed to pay the extra £200 but Mr and Mrs L feel that the stress  
and inconvenience  theyve suffered deserves more compensation.  This case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  complaints  such as this one brought by Mr and Mrs L, a first step is to 
confirm whether the claim was mishandled. In this case, both parties agree that there were 
issues with the work  carried  out on Mr and Mrs Ls family home. Lloyds has already  agreed  
that the claim could  have  been handled  better and that Mr and Mrs L suffered stress and 
inconvenience. My focus can therefore  be on the effect of these errors  on Mr and Mrs L. 
The impact  of the delay in completing  the work  on Mr and Mrs Ls home was significant. The 
work should have  taken  three months.  Instead, it took five months. So the family was out of 
their home for almost twice as long as had been  anticipated. Ive no doubt  that this extended  
period in alternative accommodation would have been stressful.  I think this would have been 
made worse as the delay meant that Mr and Mrs L were not in their own home when their 
daughter started  primary school. And there was more upheaval when Mr and Mrs L returned  
to their home in November 2018. Further work was required to fix the wooden  flooring and 
the wallpaper had to be redone. Although  they could live in the house, Mr and Mrs L chose 
to move out again  while this work  was carried out.
Ref: DRN36605752Ive also considered that Lloyds didnt communicate  well in the early stages of the claim 
especially when Mr and Mrs L had concerns over the standard  of workmanship of the 
repairs. But I can see that Lloyds  responded to Mr and Mrs Ls concerns and took steps to 
put things right. It appointed a different  claims consultant and changed the contractor 
working on Mr and Mrs Ls home.  
Lloyds has already paid £200  compensation to Mr and Mrs L. I agree  that a further  £200  
compensation is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience which Mr and Mrs L 
have experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank  General  
Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs L £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience in 
addition to the £200 it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3660575