K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs representative,  his solicitor, complains on his behalf that Countrywide Assured Plc 
was wrong to make his policy  paid up.   
background
In 1998 Mr F stopped  paying into his policy. In 2002, he made an enquiry about his policy 
and Countrywide  confirmed that he had an encashment value of around £2,387.51, and that 
he could encash  it, if he wanted to. It said:
The policy  is now in a paid up status  and is no longer able to receive any further 
contributions. However the life cover is still in force and will still continue  as long as the 
policy holds a positive  value. 
Despite the policy becoming paid up, Countrywide  continued to provide  statements.  In June 
2004, the statement showed  a fund value of £2,161, in March 2006, £1,964, and in 
November 2008,  £855. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Because it had been 12 months since Mr F had paid his last premium,  he couldnt re-
start paying premiums.  
All three  statements referred  to above  highlighted that thered be no surrender value 
by 2014 at the latest. 
In October 2009, Countrywide confirmed that the policy  funds had been exhausted, 
and as a result the policy  had lapsed  without value.  
Although Mr F denied receiving this letter, the investigator was satisfied  that it was 
more likely than not Mr F had received the letter. 
Hes not seen anything to suggest that once policy became paid up Mr F wouldnt still 
need to pay the various fees and charges.  Or that the value  wouldnt continue  to 
change (diminish) after the policy became paid up. In a letter dated December 2002, 
Countrywide said the life cover  is still inforce  and will still continue  as long as the 
policy holds a positive  value .
Hes seen nothing to suggest Mr F was told that he couldnt encash the policy  after it 
became paid up.
Hes seen nothing to suggest that Countrywide did anything wrong. 
Mr Fs solicitor disagreed with the investigators  view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. The solicitor  maintains that Mr F didnt receive the 2009 correspondence and 
wasnt told at the point of sale that he wouldnt be able to continue to pay into the policy if he 
stopped paying premiums  for 12 months.  He also says Mr F wouldnt have understood at all 
what was meant by as long as the policy holds a positive value and didnt know  that in 
order to maintain his life cover, he had to accept that the value of his policy would  diminish. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33978472Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, Im not persuaded that 
Countrywide has done anything wrong in this instance. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling  about this matter.  
He and his solicitor have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive 
read and considered carefully. However,  I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and Countrywide, and reach  what  I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note that because it had been 12 months  since Mr F paid the last premium,  he couldnt re-
start paying the premiums into the policy.  
Its possible he wasnt told this at the point of sale, but despite what Mr Fs solicitor says I 
cant on balance say that he wasnt. Even  if he wasnt specifically told this particular point, 
its reasonably clear to him in the documentation provided at the point of sale. So, Im 
satisfied that he knew or ought reasonably to have known what  was likely to happen if he 
stopped paying into the policy.  
Its how these policies,  and many like it, operate, and it isnt unique  to Countrywide. I dont 
think it has done anything  wrong by not allowing Mr F to start paying into the policy again, 
having stopped for 12 months   which eventually led to the policy being lapsed.  
Im conscious of what Mr F would like to have  done. But just because the value started to 
diminish until it was all but gone, doesnt mean that Mr F could  after 12 months of non-
payment  start paying  into the policy again. 
The several statements   referred to above in the background and provided to Mr F  made 
clear that thered be no surrender value  by 2014. So, Mr F knew,  or ought  reasonably  to 
have known, that the value was going down  and it was likely it would run out by 2014.  On 
balance I think the correspondence which Mr F denies receiving was  more likely than not  
received by him and that it made such matters reasonably  clear.   
I note there  was nothing  preventing Mr F from surrendering the policy  after it had become 
paid up. He chose not to and I dont think he can blame the business for this.   
Its likely  that Mr F assumed that once hed stopped paying into the policy, itd remain  the 
same until encashment, but once again  I cant hold the business  responsible  for this 
assumption. 
Ive seen nothing  within the documentation  to suggest that this was likely  to be the case. 
Given the way that this policy operated,  it was going  to have to still pay for the life cover and 
Ref: DRN33978473other charges  even after itd become paid up. If there was anything that Mr F didnt 
understand including the phrase  referred to by his solicitor he ought reasonably to have 
asked Countrywide  for an explanation.   
This probably explains why in its letter  of December 2002 Countrywide  said that life cover 
would continue as long as the policy held a positive value. So, if Mr F stopped paying in, life 
cover would still need to be paid for, and that payment would inevitably have to come  from 
the fund value.  
I appreciate Mr F will be unhappy Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3397847