K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr B took out a mortgage through Lloyds in 2001 and bought  a PPI policy at the same time.
He says the PPI was portrayed as a conditional requirement of his mortgage being  
approved. And he says his contractual arrangements with his employer meant it was 
unsuitable for him.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Bs complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr B disagrees  and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mr B he had a choice  about PPI and get his agreement  to 
it. From what Ive seen, I think its likely it did. Mr B signed a fairly detailed  separate  PPI 
application form. This included personal  information about him and also set out the amount 
of the mortgage  he wanted covered by PPI. Its true that, as Mr B says,  theres  nothing  on 
the form to say its optional  but, equally, theres nothing to say the mortgage is conditional 
on the PPI. Looking at the form Mr B signed, and knowing how Lloyds generally sold PPI 
with mortgages  at this time, I think its more likely than not that, at the time, Lloyds discussed 
Mr Bs insurance needs with him and he chose  the PPI because, at the time, he wanted it 
knowing he didnt have  to have it. I think if he hadnt wanted it, its likely he wouldnt have 
signed the form.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Mr Bs complaint but I 
dont think there are. Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr B so it needed to make  sure 
it was right for him. From what  hes told us of his circumstances at the time and the policy 
details Lloyds has given  us, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the cover. And he wasnt caught by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  like known health  issues or unusual  employment arrangements.  
So there was nothing to stop him claiming the full policy benefit if hed needed to. 
Mr B says he had good sick pay and other  employee benefits. But the PPI wouldve 
paid a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr B was off work  because  of sickness  or an 
accident. And this wouldve been  on top of his sick pay. It would also have covered 
him in the same  way if hed lost his job. A mortgage is a big financial  commitment 
and the consequences of falling behind on your repayments can be serious.  So I 
think the PPI gave Mr B useful protection.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for   
Mr B.
Ref: DRN34947702As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr B enough clear 
information about it for him to be able to decide,  in an informed way, if he wanted it. I dont 
know what steps Lloyds  took to do this and its possible some things werent explained  as 
clearly to Mr B as they shouldve been.  But, as Ive said, I think  its likely he chose the cover.  
I also think it was right for him  and so clearer information,  had it been  needed,  is likely  only 
to have confirmed  this to him and not made  him change his mind.  
I dont think Mr B has lost out because  of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres 
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494770