K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way that Zurich Insurance PLC has dealt with two claims 
for flooding  under his home  insurance policy.
background
In October 2017 Mr M made  a claim to Zurich after his flat was flooded from the flat above. 
Zurich accepted the claim and appointed  a loss adjuster to handle it. It paid for Mr M to stay 
elsewhere while his flat was being  repaired.
The repair works were finished just over a year later. Mr M complained to Zurich about  
delays, lack of communication and poor service. Zurich apologised and paid Mr M £1,000 
compensation for this.
Unfortunately almost immediately after the first claim was closed, Mr M had to make 
another claim as there was a second  flood from the flat above. Zurich appointed the same  
loss adjuster to handle this claim. It arranged for the flat to be partly stripped out and 
dried. The flat was confirmed to be dry by mid December 2018.  Zurich said it offered Mr M 
alternative accommodation but he preferred to stay in his flat until the repairs were due to 
start. The repairs were completed by the end of February 2019.
Mr M complained again about the way his claim had been handled. Zurich paid him 
£600 compensation for delays and lack of communication.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with that. So he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold it. He thought  the compensation offered by Zurich  was 
reasonable. As Mr M didnt agree,  the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that the works have  been completed and the claims settled, I believe the only issue 
that remains is the amount of compensation Zurich should pay Mr M for the shortcomings 
in its service to him. So Ill focus  on that.
Awards of compensation  arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award,  were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer  has caused to 
its policy holder above  and beyond  that which wed normally expect to see associated with 
a claim of this type.
Its hard to say precisely how long it should have  taken  to carry out the first lot of drying 
and repairs to Mr Ms flat. I can see that the discovery and removal  of asbestos caused a 
delay of about a month. That wasnt Zurichs fault. But repairs started in April and were  
supposed
to have been  finished around 9 May 2018.  Unfortunately the works took about five and a 
half months longer  than they should have done.  Mr M says a lot of the delay was due to his 
Ref: DRN33226672claim handler being off work  due to illness and Zurichs  original contractor becoming 
insolvent. I think Zurich  should have done  more to minimise the impact of this on Mr M.
As a result  of the delay  Mr M had to spend  longer in temporary accommodation than he 
would otherwise have needed  to and he suffered  the stress and frustration of constantly 
having to chase Zurichs loss adjuster regarding his claim. At one time he was phoning 
the loss adjuster on a daily basis and went a week without a reply or call back despite 
promises to the contrary.
It seems to me that there  was less delay  on the second claim and I dont think  Zurich can 
be blamed for the fact that the Christmas  holiday set the work back by a few weeks. Mr 
Ms flat was very cold as he had no heating in half of it. But it was his choice not to move 
out at that stage. I can understand though that he would have been very concerned to 
ensure that everything possible was being  done to move his claim along as efficiently as 
possible. And once  again  there was poor communication and he spent a lot of time 
chasing his claim handler for progress and payment of expenses. This will have caused 
him further  unnecessary stress and frustration.
However its only fair for me to recognise  that Zurich has acknowledged its service 
should have been much better and that its offered a total of £1,600 to compensate  Mr 
M for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service. Having taken all the 
circumstances into
account I think  that compensation of this amount is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but Ive thought about this services  approach  
to awards made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly  award  any more.
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3322667