K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in 2003. Miss P says she was mis-sold the policy  
because she has no recollection of agreeing to PPI and didnt even know she had it. 
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this case and told Miss P it shouldnt be upheld.  But she 
disagreed and her complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Ive got no doubt that Miss P genuinely  and honestly  believes she was mis-sold  this policy. 
But these  events were  quite a while ago now and its obviously possible that Miss P just 
cant remember what happened. 
I say this because  we know she took out her credit  card in a Halifax branch. Weve  seen 
many similar cases  to this and as a consequence, we now know quite a bit about how the 
processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used during the course of 
these sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually spoke with a Halifax  adviser to 
discuss their requirements and as a result of that discussion a credit agreement was then 
drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
Ive looked at the original agreement Miss P signed  and I can see theres a section on it 
about PPI. If the consumer wanted  this type of cover,  a box was required to be checked. 
There was an x placed into this box on Miss Ps form and so I think it would have put there 
as a result  of the discussion Ive mentioned above.  I think this is evidence  that Miss P asked 
for the PPI and she would  have been  able to see she didnt need to have  it if she didnt want 
to.
I was also sent a copy of a welcome letter Miss P was sent about the PPI on 3 December 
2003. It began thank  you for your recent application for Halifax  Credit Card Repayments 
Cover. We have pleasure in enclosing  your policy. So again,  I think she would have been 
able to see such a policy had been  set up for her. 
Finally, my experience of these accounts  is that Miss Ps monthly credit card statements 
would have shown  that she was being  charged for any PPI as credit  card repayments 
insurance (or similar). I think  if Miss P hadnt  ever wanted the PPI she would have wanted 
to know what the charges  were for.
So Im afraid  I think these pieces of evidence show, quite  strongly,  that Miss P agreed to the 
PPI and would have been able to see it had been set up on her account. Because  she also 
closed the account so long ago I can understand she doesnt remember  this now.
Ref: DRN35973722Halifax has conceded that it probably advised Miss P when she took out the PPI and so it 
was under an obligation to make sure the policy was suitable  for her. Ive looked at her age, 
job, health and circumstances  at the time to help me decide  this.
I think Miss P was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  that shed have been caught  by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  The monthly cost of the policy was 
around 79p per £100 of the outstanding balance which was comparable  with similar policies 
I know were sold around that time. Ive got no evidence  suggesting  this was unaffordable for 
Miss P. 
Miss P told us she already enjoyed some  sickness protection with her job and she also told 
us about various  investments and other insurances she had. She implies  she therefore didnt 
need the PPI. I understand  why Miss P has said these  things  and Ive considered  them all 
with care.  But Im afraid they dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable. Policies like 
this are designed to remove  the added pressure of paying credit card balances in financially  
difficult times and in the event of a successful  claim it could have paid 10% of Miss Ps 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition  to any other  
benefits she already  had. 
I also see that her insurances  were  for different eventualities to what the PPI covered and 
overall, I dont think the recommendation to have PPI was an unreasonable  one. I think the 
policy was suitable  for Miss P.
Halifax also had to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so Miss P 
could make an informed  choice as to whether she should buy the policy.  I can see ways 
where the application form could have been  clearer. And I cant  say for sure if she was told 
everything she shouldve  been. But the letter  I mentioned above said that she was given 
something explaining the policy rules  and from the discussion,  I think  she wouldve had 
enough information on which to make an informed  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.  And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  to put matters  right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3597372