K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that the mortgage  advice they received from Openwork  Limited  was 
unsuitable and this has meant  that they have lost out financially.
background
Mr and Mrs C had a property without  any mortgage. They  wanted  to carry out improvements 
and contacted an advisor. He recommended a mortgage product in October  2017.  He 
wrongly keyed into the application that Mr and Mrs C were existing borrowers.  When this 
error was discovered  the lender involved said that they would need to pay for a valuation  
and legal costs.  The advisor agreed  to meet these costs. But by that time Mr and Mrs C had 
already taken the roof off the property  and removed the kitchen and bathroom. So the 
property was not habitable and was not suitable for mortgage  security. They borrowed 
money from family and friends to help meet  the necessary costs or repairs  and were 
eventually able to get the mortgage when the property was habitable.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he did not 
think that the advisor would have recommended the mortgage had he known that the roof of 
the property was going to be removed before the mortgage completed. The decision to start 
the work  was one made by Mr and Mrs C. The mortgage that they now had was on the same 
terms as the one previously recommended and had the offset feature theyd wanted. Mr and 
Mrs C had always agreed that the product  fee would be added to the mortgage.  And theyd 
had 10 days after the receipt of the mortgage  offer to check that they were happy  with the 
terms.
Mr and Mrs C did not agree and wanted  their complaint to be reviewed. They didnt  think that 
the advice was suitable. And if that advice was correct it wouldnt have mattered if theyd 
taken the roof off. They were left in a terrible position with no money and a property that was 
not habitable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the difficult position Mr and Mrs C were in and that they had to find another way 
of paying to make their home habitable before they could get the mortgage.
I need to consider the reason that they were in this position. And Im afraid that was because 
they had decided to start work  on their property before they had a firm mortgage 
commitment. That was something  that only the lender could agree to. So there  was always a 
risk that they might not get a mortgage  when that lender  considered their mortgage  
application in detail. I fully understand that they did not expect any difficulty  given their 
personal circumstances.
An error was made when  the mortgage  application  was input. If they had existing borrowing 
then there  wouldnt  have been valuation  or legal fees due to the lender. And it seems that a 
desktop valuation  could have been  relied  upon.  The advisor recognised that was his error 
and offered to cover  these costs. He says in his comments about their complaint  that he 
didnt know what had happened to the property by then. I find this to be the most likely 
Ref: DRN35923862position and that Mr and Mrs C had not expected  that a valuer would come and look at the 
property  believing that the desktop  valuation would be sufficient.
The advisor was able to obtain the same  interest rate product  and term that was available 
originally from the lender.  An offer was issued in May 2018. The mortgage  still has an offset  
feature. There was a product fee as in the original recommendation.  I dont see any 
evidence the advisor  said he would pay this. And the documentation shows  that this fee was 
always going to be added  to the mortgage  balance. 
Mr and Mrs C were able to obtain a mortgage  on the same terms as originally  recommended  
to them.  I am not persuaded that the mortgage  product was unsuitable - or that a different 
type of mortgage  should  have been recommended to them  based  on what they told the 
advisor. So I wont be asking Openwork  to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Openwork  Limited need 
not take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3592386