K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) reduced  his 
benefit payments  by 50% under an income  protection claim. 
background
Mr D is a member  of his employers group income protection policy. A claim was payable  if 
he couldnt carry out the essential duties of his own occupation because  of illness or injury. 
This is known as an own occupation  incapacity  definition. 
In 2015, Mr D stopped work after experiencing an injury. He made a claim to L&G, which  
was accepted.
However, after 12 months of the claim being in payment, the definition of incapacity 
changed. After  that time, 50% of benefit  was based on the own occupation definition and 
50% was based  on a suited occupation definition. A claim would be payable under the 
suited occupation  definition if Mr D couldnt work in an occupation suited to his experience, 
training or education.
When the definition  of incapacity  changed, L&G reviewed Mr Ds claim but continued to pay 
him full benefit.  After  considering the medical evidence,  it wanted him to take part in a 
Transferable Skills Assessment (TSA) to see what  alternative  roles  might be suitable for him. 
Mr D initially didnt agree  to this assessment as he wanted further clarification on the 
reasons for this. L&G therefore suspended his benefit in November  2017.  
Mr D then went ahead with the TSA. L&G concluded after this that he remained unable  to 
work in his own occupation, but there were other suited  roles in which he could work. It 
therefore switched  his claim to partial  benefit, and paid 50% of the total benefit. Unhappy  
with this, Mr D brought a complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2019. Ive summarised my findings below.
I noted that L&G had accepted Mr D wasnt able to return to work  in his own occupation until 
he underwent some  testing, and that it wasnt pressurising him to do this. The issue was 
whether it was reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mr D could work in a suited occupation.
I said the definition  of incapacity  changed to 50% own occupation  and 50% suited 
occupation on 25 September  2016.  I therefore looked at the medical evidence from this date.
In October  2017, Mr Ds treating consultant neurologist (Dr H) had explained  Mr D was 
experiencing domestic pressures. He said these events and their consequences  were an 
exacerbating factor of his original symptoms. 
Around this time, L&G wanted to assess Mr Ds ability to carry out other  occupations by 
arranging the TSA.  I said that unfortunately our investigator had confused the TSA with the 
testing that Mr D was required to do for his own occupation in her findings. 
In November 2017, Mr D spoke with Dr F (an occupational health practitioner). Dr F reported  
that Mr D had described a series  of events in his personal life that had caused  him 
significant stress and impacted his overall  wellbeing. Dr F said that apart from his 
Ref: DRN31307932neurologist, Mr D hadnt sought any other medical  advice  or support for his domestic 
pressures, as he thought this was unnecessary. 
In December 2017, Mr D then went ahead with the TSA with a rehabilitation counsellor. The 
counsellor said Mr D would need  to resolve  his current mental  wellbeing episode, and once 
this was resolved  hed be job ready and would be suited to some other occupations. There 
were two other occupations that were suggested as being suitable for Mr D. L&G concluded 
after this that Mr D could  do other  suited occupations, and switched the claim to partial 
benefit. 
I questioned why L&G didnt ask Dr H if he thought  Mr D would be able to return  to work  in 
another suited  occupation, given that he was Mr Ds treating  specialist. 
I also said that, although the counsellor  who carried out the TSA found that Mr D could do 
some other suited occupations,  this was on the basis that his mental health episode  had 
resolved. I thought it was apparent that his problems  hadnt resolved at the time L&G 
switched the claim  to partial  benefit.
I said that I appreciated Mr D hadnt sought  medical help at the time, and so it was difficult to 
say whether his problems  did prevent  him from working in alternative occupations. However,  
I said Mr D did later seek medical help, and hed provided further evidence of this. Although 
L&G had been  provided with this evidence, it didnt change L&Gs opinion on the matter. 
The further evidence  Mr D provided  was from Dr M (GP), Mr S (cognitive behavioural 
therapist) and Dr H. 
In June 2018, Dr M said that whilst Mr D hadnt  been under his care since  2016, hed been 
updated by Mr Ds medical specialists. Dr M said Mr D was still not in a sufficiently good 
condition to go back to work. He later clarified that by this he meant  he didnt think Mr D was 
fit for any type of work. 
In July 2018, Mr S said that Mr D was indicating clinically significant and high levels of 
depression and anxiety, and the symptoms had persisted  for many months. He said his 
treatment with Mr D was planned to continue over the coming months  and he thought  it 
would take many months of continued practice  for Mr D to regain strong  mental health. Mr S 
said it was clear to him that Mr D wasnt in a fit state currently to return to work. 
In October  2018, Dr H said he wanted  to add his professional support to the reports from 
Dr M and Mr S. He said I do not regard [Mr D] as being currently in a fit state,  either 
physically nor mentally, to be able to work. 
Then in January 2019, Dr H said Mr D remained under his care and remained unfit for any 
type of work.
Overall, I thought this was a very balanced case. I said Mr D had only sought  medical  help 
for his mental health in 2018, which was after L&G had switched his claim to partial  benefit.  
However, I thought  the medical evidence  before  that showed that Mr D was experiencing 
mental health problems and it was thought  hed only be job ready for alternative roles  once 
his mental health  episode  had resolved. However,  it hadnt resolved when L&G switched to 
partial benefit. I thought the medical evidence from 2018, whilst not particularly  detailed,  did 
support that Mr D couldnt work  at all. And crucially,  Dr H (who  had been Mr Ds treating 
specialist for some  time), agreed  with Dr M and Mr Ss opinions.  
Ref: DRN31307933On balance, I thought L&G should reinstate  the benefit for suited occupation cover. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
L&G didnt accept  my provisional decision.  Wed provided it with the further comments from 
Dr M which  said he didnt think Mr D was fit for any type of work,  as L&G said it hadnt seen 
this evidence before.  It said that if it had been previously provided with this evidence, then it 
would have arranged  for Mr D to have an assessment with a consultant  in mental  health.  
L&G wants  to be allowed to now arrange this. 
Mr Ds legal representative  responded on his behalf.  He agreed with my provisional findings,  
and provided me with further correspondence  between Mr Ds employer and L&G (which 
took place after Mr Ds complaint had been brought to this service).  He also said that the 
backdated benefit payments would push Mr D into the next tax bracket, which  wouldnt have 
happened if the benefit had continued to be paid each  month.  Finally,  he asked that L&G 
pay Mr Ds legal costs.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
L&G wants  to arrange for Mr D to have  an assessment by a consultant in mental health. It 
thinks it should be allowed to arrange this because it hadnt previously been provided with 
Dr Ms further comments. It says that if it had seen this evidence,  then it would  have 
arranged the assessment.
This service wasnt aware that L&G hadnt  seen  Dr Ms further comments.  Although L&G 
referred to medical  evidence from 2018  in its covering letter  to us, its file didnt  contain  any of 
this evidence. Instead, Mr D provided it to us. Had L&G provided all the relevant medical 
evidence in its file to us, we may have identified earlier on that it hadnt seen Dr Ms further 
comments. 
In any event, Im not convinced that L&G would have arranged such  an assessment even if it 
had been previously provided  with Dr Ms further comments. I say that because whilst Dr Ms 
comments were  useful,  I think Dr Hs opinion (as Mr Ds treating consultant)  was more  
significant and hed said he didnt regard Mr D as being in a fit state, physically or mentally,  
to be able to work. L&G had seen Dr Hs evidence, but despite this, it didnt require Mr D to 
undergo a mental health assessment at the time.
L&G has also referred to the evidence provided by the counsellor, Mr S, and Dr H 
concerning Mr Ds mental health. It says the counsellors comments were based  on Mr Ds 
self-reporting. It also says Mr S wasnt suitably qualified to give a medical diagnosis of 
mental illness. Finally, it says that whilst  Dr H didnt regard Mr D as being  in a fit state to be 
able to work, he also isnt a mental health expert. Because  of this, L&G thinks  an 
assessment with a mental health consultant is required  to conclude the matter. 
I think it would have  been useful if L&G had arranged an assessment with a consultant  in 
mental health in 2017/2018. It was aware at this time that Mr D was experiencing mental  
health problems  and his doctors thought  this prevented him from being able to work.  
Ref: DRN31307934However, it didnt do so. Ive therefore thought about whether it would be helpful  for Mr D to 
undergo such an assessment now. 
I see that Mr Ds employer  recently  asked L&G if it would arrange a further medical 
assessment to establish if Mr D was fit to work in a suited occupation. L&G refused this 
request and said an assessment would have no impact on retrospective assessments  and 
decisions that were based  on contemporaneous  evidence. Im inclined to agree with L&G 
here. Whilst L&G may require Mr D to undergo such an assessment as part of a review of 
the claim going forward, I dont think an assessment undertaken now would have much 
bearing on the situation at the time L&G made  the decision to switch  to partial benefit. 
I therefore remain satisfied, for the same reasons as explained in my provisional  decision, 
that L&G should reinstate Mr Ds benefit  under the suited occupation definition. 
Other issues
L&G would like me to explain and justify why I thought  our investigator had confused the 
TSA and the testing  that Mr D is required to do in order to go back  to his own occupation. 
Our investigator had said L&G may consider paying full benefit  if the evidence  showed that 
Mr D was unable to perform a suited occupation. She said it was reasonable for L&G to ask 
for the testing to take place, as she thought  this would  assess  Mr Ds capability to undertake 
suited occupations.  
That wasnt  correct, as the testing to which the investigator was referring  was the testing that 
Mr D needs to do in order to return to his own occupation. L&G hadnt asked Mr D to go 
through with this testing. Rather L&G wanted  Mr D to have  the TSA in order to assess his 
ability to do suited occupations. Our investigator  had unfortunately confused the testing and 
the TSA.
Mr Ds legal representative  has made the point  that when L&G pays  Mr D the backdated 
benefit, receiving a lump  sum of this size this will push him into the next tax bracket  through 
no fault of his own. Hes asked that I require L&G to make a payment that will ensure Mr D 
receives the same net sum as he would have done  if the benefit  had been paid as it should 
have. 
Although Mr D may have  a financial loss as a result  of the backdated benefit being  paid in a 
lump sum, that loss hasnt happened yet. Whilst he can presumably show whats  happened  
in previous tax years,  I cant rule out that Mr D could  go back to work before the end of the 
current tax year, and so his earnings  may put him in the higher tax bracket for this tax year.
I would suggest  that once  the payment has been  made and Mr D can show hes experienced 
a financial loss that he otherwise wouldnt have done, he should raise this with L&G and Id 
expect it to compensate  him for this. If it disagrees, he may be able to bring a new complaint 
to this service about the matter. 
Mr Ds legal representative  has also asked  that I order L&G to pay Mr Ds legal  costs.  This 
service rarely requires a financial business to pay a consumers legal costs. Im satisfied 
Mr D was able to bring his complaint here without needing legal representation, and so I 
dont require L&G to pay his legal costs. 
Ref: DRN31307935my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal & General Assurance  Society  
Limited to reinstate Mr Ds benefit under the suited  occupation  incapacity definition from the 
date this terminated.
Interest should  be added  to the backdated payments at the rate of 8% simple  per annum, 
from the date each payment was due to the date of settlement. * 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If L&G considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3130793