K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs S bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking a credit card.  Shes told us she 
cant recall how the PPI was sold. From  her application form and what  I have, I think Mrs S 
applied for the credit  card and PPI by post.
According to the credit  card application form she signed, Mrs S was employed by a hotel. 
She has told us her line of work was housekeeping.  With this in mind,  the income given on 
the application form in my view suggests that, even  if she didnt work full-time hours, Mrs S 
likely worked  more  than 16 hours  a week. Mrs S has told us she worked less than 16 hours 
a week - and I take this into account.  But I also bear in mind that, in telling us this, Mrs S 
said she couldnt remember the name  of her employer - and referred  to a date of sale four 
years earlier than the date she applied for her card. We asked for more  from Mrs S about all 
this, but we didnt receive anything more. Taking  everything into account,  I think the details 
on Mrs Ss application  form from the time are likely to reflect  her situation at that time - and 
the income figure given there  persuades  me she was working at least 16 hours  a week.
From what  Mrs S has told us I think its likely she was entitled to no more  than statutory pay 
for sickness or redundancy. Shes told us she wasnt entitled  to work sick pay or redundancy 
pay and didnt have  any other means with which to pay her credit  card if she couldnt  work. 
She has also told us of an infection she had around  30 years before the sale, for which  she 
didnt miss any work. She hasnt told us of any other, or more recent, health issues.
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment, and life cover,  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Ss card balance in the event of a 
successful disability or unemployment claim. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear  
the card balance on death. From what RBS has sent, the PPI at the time cost likely no more 
than 75p (RBS says it cost around 72p) per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The 
premium attracted interest  and would continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim. 
RBS has sent us evidence to show the credit card account was closed in 2007. Mrs Ss 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs Ss 
representative says:
The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
RBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs S wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ss representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN34364892The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  RBS should have told Mrs S about  the 
poor value; and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means RBS should  have explained  the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs S and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 but before  the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC)  
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN34364893The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like RBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ss case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so RBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If RBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether RBS gave Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs S suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs S and RBS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
Ref: DRN34364894RBS had to make it clear  the PPI was optional. Mrs S has said she had no interest in PPI 
and it was just included as part of the package with her card. But her credit card application 
form had a separate PPI section with a box for her to tick if she wanted the cover.  Next to 
the box it said: For cover  just tick this box. On Mrs Ss form, which she signed to take the 
card, this box is ticked  and I think Mrs S wouldve known it could be left unticked if she 
didnt want the cover. The form doesnt  say that the PPI had to be taken or say Mrs S had to 
tick the box for it if she didnt want the cover. Taking  everything into account, I think  its more 
likely Mrs S knew the policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did RBS provide advice?
Both RBS and Mrs S agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means RBS 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs S. Instead,  it had to give her sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs S to make an informed choice about 
whether to take the policy, including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
the information
RBS has provided us with Mrs Ss application  form and credit  agreement  showing  that PPI 
had been selected. Ive also seen  a certificate  of insurance whose terms I accept, on a 
balance of probabilities, applied to policies like Mrs Ss.
Looking at the information provided to Mrs S at the time,  I dont think RBS gave her the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. Mrs Ss credit card application form described the PPI as being  
to protect  the card payments in the event  of death, accident, sickness or unemployment. The 
information provided would have given  her a broad sense of what  the policy covered. Also I 
think it unlikely Mrs S wouldve agreed  to take the PPI without at least a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided, and I think it unlikely she wouldve thought it was free. 
But it was RBSs responsibility to draw  to Mrs Ss attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded RBS did enough to do this. I dont think  the true cost of the PPI was made 
clear to Mrs S, for example, including the need to keep paying  premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  Also I cant see that RBS adequately drew  to 
Mrs Ss attention the main provisions of the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think RBS gave  Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing her attention 
to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions  of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN34364895In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ss representative considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that RBS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did RBSs shortcomings have on Mrs S? To what extent did Mrs S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that RBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs S. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs S suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs S would have still 
taken the policy,  had RBS done  things properly. 
Mrs S says she wouldnt have taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs S had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs S chose to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs S thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs S ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that RBS didnt make  clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs S didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.
Ref: DRN34364896Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
As well as claims directly relating to any health issue that in the 12 months before the 
policy start Mrs S was aware  of and that might cause her to claim,  the policy excluded 
claims related to any health issue Mrs S knew or should have known about  or for which  
she got advice  or treatment from a medical  practitioner in the 12 months before the 
policy start and which recurred within 24 months  of the policy  start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs S be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job and also be stopped from doing  any job her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs S pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking  the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
The policy in some circumstances  wouldnt have covered Mrs S for a health issue  she knew  
of at the start but, given  all she told us, Im not persuaded  she wouldve at the start thought 
herself at risk of missing work  in future  due to any past health  issue  her past issue was 30 
years earlier for example.  Also, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mrs S wouldve been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions  - she was in permanent  employment for 
example. With all this in mind, I think Mrs S still had good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely Mrs S would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs S 
from taking the PPI, Mrs S, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs S had known she could only claim for disability  if she were not only stopped  from 
doing her own job or any similar job but also stopped from doing any job her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking 
about what to do and I accept this may have given  her pause for thought.
But given Mrs Ss circumstances and the limited  other means she had with which to pay her 
card, on balance I think she wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs S would  still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
she thought she was getting  and, aside from any statutory benefits  she was entitled to, she 
Ref: DRN34364897didnt have any means of meeting her credit  card repayments if she were  unable to work  due 
to accident, sickness  or redundancy.  And in those  circumstances I consider it more  likely 
than not that Mrs S would  have taken the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs S 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances to 
conclude RBS should pay Mrs S compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs S thinks RBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
RBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why RBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  RBS gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ref: DRN34364898Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find RBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs S and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that RBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3436489