K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont  assist her to have her 
ex-husband removed from the mortgage. Mrs W wants her ex-husbands name taken off the 
mortgage.
background
Mrs W and her ex-husband whom I shall call Mr A  have had a Halifax mortgage from 2004. 
In 2005 Mr A left the family home  and Mrs W has been paying  the mortgage  since. Mrs W 
discovered that Mr A was bigamously married  and says that after a criminal court  hearing  
the marriage was declared void. Mrs A has suffered from a number of illnesses  and looked  
to get help from Halifax for a payment holiday.  But Mrs W says that Halifax  will not deal with 
her without the joint account  holder  Mr A being involved. Mrs W wants her former husband 
taken off the mortgage but she says that Halifax wont assist her, Mrs W says that Mr A 
doesnt respond to correspondence and that she cant carry on in this situation. Halifax  has 
been unable  to contact Mr A.
Halifax says that if it is to transfer  the mortgage  into Mrs Ws sole name that it needs  a court 
order. Similarly, if it is to consider a payment holiday or any change  to the mortgage 
including a new mortgage product it needs either a court order or Mr As agreement. 
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt 
believe that Halifax had done anything wrong  in respect of the transfer  of equity application 
as there  was no court order or an agreement transferring Mr As interest in the property to 
Mrs W. But our investigator  felt that Halifax should review  with Mrs W whether any 
discounted interest rates were available to her and pay Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused when  it declined a payment holiday without taking her circumstances into account.
Mrs W disagreed  with this view saying in summary that the suggested  settlement  didnt  
reflect the 14 years  of stress caused by Halifax that she suffered. Halifax  also disagreed 
saying that if it gave any concessions to Mrs W such as a payment holiday that this would 
effectively increase Mr As liability without  his agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the documents I have been  provided with, it appears that Mr A applied for his marriage to 
Mrs W to be declared  void in 2016  on the basis that his previous marriage hadnt been  
dissolved and a Decree Absolute declaring  the marriage a nullity  was granted.  But there was 
no financial  settlement  at that time between Mrs W and Mr A dealing  with what was to 
happen to the property  in the future. That opportunity seems to have been missed. Mrs W 
would like Mr A removed  from the mortgage but if that is to be done he needs to be removed 
from the title deeds  to the property. Halifax cant do that. Its simply not in Halifaxs  power to 
remove him. In order to do so Mrs W needs  a court  order or Mr As agreement.  That is a 
matter for Mrs W to take legal  advice  on as to what she can do. I understand that Mrs W 
may have  difficulties contacting or dealing  with her ex-husband. But I dont consider that 
Halifax has been at fault in preventing the transfer of the property to Mrs W.
Ref: DRN39193842The other issue is that although  Mrs W has had no assistance from Mr A in the payment of 
the mortgage since he left the family  home in 2005,  Halifax requires Mr As agreement to 
changes to the mortgage that would assist Mrs W such  as a new mortgage product or a 
payment holiday.  
There are very particular circumstances in this case which make it unusual given Mr As 
bigamy and the level of distrust that Mrs W must  have for Mr A. At one stage Mrs W hired a 
private detective to get information  on Mr As whereabouts and thats  when his bigamy  came  
to light. Mrs W says that she and her solicitor sent letters to Mr A on several occasions 
asking him to make contact about the mortgage but he has failed to do so. 
On 26 October 2018, there is a record on Mrs Ws file that she asked for a payment holiday 
as she had on that day left her job and was starting  another one. Previously she got paid 
weekly and now she would be paid monthly.  This would  mean  going  into arrears for a short  
period but that she could pay the arrears off by an additional payment each month  
thereafter. Halifax told Mrs W that she needed  Mr A to agree although the contact note 
records that she hadnt seen him for 15 years. 
As Mrs W had taken  sole responsibility for this account and made  a fairly straightforward 
request for a short  payment  holiday  I dont  see why Halifax couldnt have dealt with it without 
reference to Mr A who hadnt been  involved in the management of the account for many 
years. Halifaxs position is that by granting  this request the mortgage balance  would  increase  
which would result in additional interest  and higher monthly payments which Mr A didnt 
agree to. But Mrs Ws clear intention is to manage  the account  as best she could to the 
benefit of all parties. I dont consider that in this Halifax was acting positively and 
sympathetically and I expect Mrs W was quite upset by this request. It seems that Mrs W 
managed the change  without the payment holiday with a small arrears  balance of £39. But I 
believe that Halifax didnt  deal with this properly and that compensation of £250 for Mrs Ws 
upset is appropriate.  
It would also seem that Mrs W hasnt been able to take advantage of discounted mortgage 
products over the years. Halifax takes the position that Mr A should  agree to these as there 
are potential downsides  to these products such as an early repayment charge.  It would  
seem from the history of the account  that when Mrs W enquired  about such products in the 
past that her account was in arrears  and she wouldnt  have  qualified  for them in any event.  
On other  occasions I noted that Mrs W had contact with Halifax - about a term extension,  
about a change to interest  only and about a payment arrangement  but not about a product 
transfer. But at the present time when Mrs Ws account isnt in arrears, Halifax  doesnt feel it 
can offer her such products without Mr As consent. 
I believe that Halifax needs to look at the actual circumstances that apply in this case  and its 
obligation to act fairly with the best interests  of the customer. In the case  of a new mortgage 
product Halifax should  be able to recommend to Mrs W what  is the best mortgage  product 
for her given her circumstances.  As Mr A has taken no interest in the management of the 
mortgage account for  some 15 years I dont  believe  that its fair to prevent Mrs W from 
taking advantage of a discounted rate because of Mr As failure  to involve himself in the 
process.        
So, I intend to uphold this complaint and award  compensation  to Mrs W of £250. I know  that 
Mrs W believes that she should be awarded  more but as I dont believe that Halifax is at fault 
for refusing to transfer the mortgage  into her sole name, I dont believe that I can fairly award  
Ref: DRN39193843her more. I will also order that Mrs W should have  access in like manner to other customers  
to Halifaxs mortgage  products  without having  to obtain the authority of Mr A. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
should pay Mrs W compensation of £250  and discuss with her whether any mortgage  
products are available  to her and allow Mrs W to access a mortgage  product without the 
necessity of obtaining Mr As authority. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3919384