K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) caused damage when they carried  out 
work under a claim  on his Home Emergency policy.
background
Mr L noticed his front lawn and driveway  were  sinking.  So around September 2018 he called  
out IPA to check the nearby drains.  In their report, they said both manholes were  fine and 
just needed jetting. Mr L said he then had work completed to repair  the driveway in 
October 2018.
Around February 2019 Mr L noticed  the front lawn was again sinking. He contacted his water  
company (YW) who sent an engineer to complete  a CCTV  survey of the soil and rainwater 
drains. Mr L said YW told him the sinking had been  caused by the rainwater drain collapsing 
 and it was likely it had been that way for some time. 
IPA attended Mr Ls property to inspect the drains  in 2012 and 2014, so he was unhappy the 
issue hadnt been diagnosed by them previously. Mr L believed  the damage  to the rainwater 
drain had likely been caused  by IPA when they repaired the soil drain  in 2005  which is 
located close to the rainwater drain. He provided photos of the damage  and said he felt the 
damage had likely been caused by a mechanical digger. He was also unhappy with the way 
IPA had handled his complaint as he had to chase IPA several times for information hed 
requested, including a copy of his call recordings and waiting three  weeks  for a requested 
report. He also said a conference call with IPA was cancelled and wasnt rearranged after 
IPA promised it would be - and they didnt attend an appointment with YW at his home  
despite saying  they wanted to be present.
IPA sent engineers to inspect the drains.  The engineers said the rainwater drain  had 
collapsed but the issues were caused by settlement so hadnt been caused  by IPA. 
IPA said no issues were  identified when they inspected the drains in 2012 and 2014 and the 
material present around the damage differed to what they would normally  use to repair  
drains. They didnt  believe it was caused by them  and YW were  responsible  for any repairs 
to the rainwater drain. However, IPA said there had been delays in handling Mr Ls complaint 
and in providing information Mr L requested so they offered him £75 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr L didnt agree with IPAs response. So, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  recommended we uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said though IPA didnt 
identify issues with the drains in 2018, it later appeared the issues  had existed for some  
time, so it was likely  this had been  overlooked by IPA. She said only IPA had worked on the 
drains previously,  in 2005. As she could see excavation work taken place, she said the 
rainwater pipe was likely  damaged by IPA during  the excavation. She also said it was not 
unreasonable to think  the material IPA used when carrying  out the work was different 14 
years ago.
To put things right she recommended  IPA refund Mr L the cost of the work carried out on his 
driveway and any costs for Mr L to have his lawn relevelled. She also agreed there had been 
service issues  and delays  by IPA in handling  Mr Ls complaint- she recommended they pay 
him a further £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN30499152IPA didnt agree with our investigator, they said there was no evidence  that they caused the 
damage in 2005   and if they had the damage  would  likely have appeared sooner. They  said 
they felt the problems were more likely to be due to geotechnical events.
Following this Mr L went to an independent  expert. In their report,  they said the damage  to 
the rainwater drain  couldnt have been caused by a geotechnical issue  and occurred after 
installation. They said the cause of the issues was from impact damage.  As no other  work 
had been carried  out on the drains,  they said the only opportunity  for this to occur  would 
have been when the nearby drain  was repaired in 2005 by IPA.
Our investigators view remained that Mr Ls complaint  should  be upheld  but in addition she 
also recommended  IPA pay the costs Mr L incurred for hiring the independent  expert.
IPA didnt agree the damage  was caused by them. They  said when the driveway  was 
replaced an excavation  was completed to a deeper  depth than by IPA in 2005 and so its 
possible the damage was caused  then.
The complaint has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But in presenting  my decision I will 
concentrate my comments on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.  I dont  mean 
this as a discourtesy, but it reflects the informal nature of our service  and my role in it.
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr L has provided a report from an independent expert.  They said they didnt think 
geotechnical forces created the issues. They said the damage to the pipe shown in the 
photographs taken  when  YW repaired the drains,  is located at the top  which  they said was 
more consistent  with impact damage  and not ground  movement. 
Because of the location of the damage, the expert  said the issues  wouldve been slow and 
gradual. Material would only have escaped out the top of the pipe when it was full, which 
would only have happened intermittently, such as during  heavy rainfall. There wouldnt have 
been a constant leak, but now and again over time material would have come out the top of 
the pipe into the surrounding  ground. So eventually enough material wouldve been  washed 
away to cause settlement  issues   which  they said could take years. They  concluded the 
damage was likely caused by IPA in 2005.
IPA have said a likely  cause for the damage  could  have been ground  movement.  They said 
the material found around the collapsed drain  differs to what they would use when carrying  
out the repair. But theyve not provided  me with any evidence to support this.
IPA havent been able to provide  any reports  or copies of CCTV surveys carried out during 
their inspections  but they have provided  work  sheets from when they attended Mr Ls 
property in 2012, 2014 and 2018. The sheet from 2012 says a ball valve  needed replacing 
and a jet line clear was carried  out  and I can see another jet line clear was carried out in 
2014. But theres no clear  evidence to show if the drains were surveyed   or that they were 
defect free at the time.
Ref: DRN30499153In September  2018 IPA CCTV surveyed both manholes  the engineer  confirmed they were 
both fine and the rain water drain  needed jetting.
YW surveyed the drain a short time after IPA, in February 2019.  They  said the pipework had 
completely collapsed - and Mr L said they told him it had been this way for some  time. The 
damage to the drain was confirmed by another IPA engineer when they visited in 
March 2019. They didnt suggest  the damage  has been caused recently. So, without  clear  
evidence the drains  were  defect free when IPA inspected them in 2018, I think its likely the 
issues were present, and IPA failed to identify them.
IPA have also said the issues couldve been caused by the workmen  who repaired Mr Ls 
driveway as they also carried out excavation work. But the issues  with the driveway sinking 
had already been reported by Mr L when he contacted IPA in September 2018 - before the 
excavation took place. And neither  inspection  in early 2019 noted recent damage to the pipe, 
which would have been the case if it had been damaged during the October 2018 work.  So, 
it seems most likely the issues that were present before the driveway was repaired were still 
there after and manifested  themselves in the same  way to Mr L as before - with the 
driveway/lawn sinking.  So, Im not persuaded the damage was caused by a separate issue 
or that the workmen  who repaired the driveway were responsible.  Its more  likely the issues  
that were present before the work were still there after it had been completed.
So Im more persuaded by the findings of the independent report and the damage was likely 
caused by IPA in 2005.  The report has come from an experienced, qualified engineer who 
has provided a thorough  and persuasive explanation for the cause of the damage - and Ive 
not seen anything which gives me reason to doubt what theyve said.  IPA have been unable  
to provide clear  evidence  to support their points  so Im unable  to say the issues  werent 
caused by them. So I think IPA have done  something wrong and must put things right.
Putting things right
Its my understanding that the issues with the rainwater drain have now been  repaired by 
YW and Mr L hasnt incurred any costs from this  so I dont think  IPA need to pay anything  
here. 
But as Im satisfied the issues with the driveway  sinking  were caused by the damage  to the 
rainwater drain, and IPA didnt  identify these before Mr L had the driveway repaired, I think 
IPA should reimburse  him the cost of the work  done to his drive. Mr L has also said he 
needs to have work done to have  the lawn relevelled  so I think IPA should  also cover a 
reasonable cost for this work to be completed. Mr L may need to provide evidence  he has 
tried to find reasonable quotes before this work is completed if IPA requires it.
As IPA didnt agree they were responsible for the damage to the rainwater drain and 
subsequent damage to Mr Ls driveway,  Mr L had to get an independent report.  So, I think 
its reasonable that IPA refund Mr L the cost he incurred  in obtaining the report.
IPA acknowledged  there were some delays in their handling of Mr Ls complaint. Ive 
considered this and the inconvenience caused by the issues  with the driveway sinking - and 
additional work now having to be arranged to rectify the issues caused. So I think £175 is a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation for IPA to pay Mr L as I think I fairly represents 
the inconvenience he has been  caused.  IPA initially offered Mr L £75  so if it has already 
paid him this, they will need to pay an additional  £100.
Ref: DRN30499154my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
To put things right Inter Partner Assistance SA should:
-Refund Mr L the cost of repairing  his driveway upon production of receipts
-Refund Mr L the cost of obtaining  the report  from an independent expert
-Simple interest of 8% should be calculated from the date Mr L paid for the repairs  
and report to the date of settlement 1 
-Pay a reasonable cost of relevelling Mr Ls lawn upon production  of quotes and 
receipts
-Pay Mr L £175 for the inconvenience caused.  Inter Partner Assistance SA should do 
this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr Ls accepted my final decision. If they pay later 
than this, they should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my 
final decision to the date they make  the payment
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
1 If Inter Partner Assist considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr L how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.   
Ref: DRN3049915