K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc hasnt reimbursed money  she lost as a result of a 
scam.
background
On 28 July 2018 Miss S made a payment of £2,500 from her HSBC account  to a third-party 
account (the beneficiary account), also held with HSBC. Miss S made the payment as a 
deposit plus one months rent for a property she says shed seen advertised on a reputable 
marketplace. 
On 28 August 2018, one month  later, Miss S went to the property to collect  the keys.  She 
says that after speaking to the real homeowner there, it became clear shed been scammed;  
and she contacted the police and HSBC about the payment shed made.
HSBC investigated  and said it had been  unable to recover the payment from the beneficiary 
account, and that it wasnt  able to reimburse  Miss S. Miss S was unhappy  and referred the 
matter here.
An adjudicator here reviewed Miss Ss complaint.  He didnt think HSBC should reasonably 
have been expected to identify the payment as particularly unusual  or suspicious. And as 
Miss S didnt interact  with HSBC staff at the time of the payment request, he didnt think  he 
could reasonably say HSBC  missed an opportunity to identify the scam and prevent the 
payment. He also said that the payment Miss S made had already been removed from the 
beneficiary account by the time Miss S reported the scam to HSBC.  So he didnt uphold 
Miss Ss complaint.  
Miss S didnt accept  the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
materially the same reasons. 
I know Miss S has been waiting for this final answer for a long time and this isnt the 
outcome shes been hoping  for. I understand why she has wanted to do all she can to try to 
get her money  back. And I have no reason to doubt  that Miss S has, as she says, been the 
victim of a scam. Im really sorry shes lost this money. Here, however, I need to decide 
whether it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC, in all the circumstances of this case, to be 
held responsible for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt and Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
Ref: DRN33458272In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like HSBC  are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6). 
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
So, with all this in mind,  I have considered the position carefully.
Ive reviewed Miss Ss account statements leading up to the payment. And overall and in the 
context of Miss Ss normal spending  and account  usage, Im satisfied here that it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable to say that the amount  and type of payment should  have appeared 
unusual or suspicious  to HSBC. The payment was for a greater amount than Miss Ss usual 
spend. But she had made other payments larger than her usual spend  before  a payment  
in April 2018 of around £1,700, a payment in January 2018 of around £1,950,  and a 
payment in September 2017 of around £2,470.  So Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to say her payment request of £2,500 in July 2018 ought to have appeared 
sufficiently unusual that HSBC ought  to have spoken to Miss S before allowing it through.  I 
also dont think the fact the payment  was to a new payee means  HSBC  should, in the 
particular circumstances  here, have automatically  thought it was suspicious and that Miss S 
was at risk of financial harm. So in the circumstances here, Im satisfied that HSBC didnt do 
anything wrong  by following the instructions Miss S gave to send  the money without 
questioning Miss S about the payment first. And as there wasnt any interaction between 
Miss S and HSBC as part of the payment request, HSBC didnt otherwise unreasonably miss 
an opportunity to unearth the scam  before the payment was made.
Ive thought about the possibility that the beneficiary  account holders name  didnt match the 
payee name Miss S instructed. However,  at the time the payment was made, the relevant 
regulations  the Payment Service Regulations 2017  set out that payments are sent 
according to the unique  identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the Payment  Service Regulations 2017 states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed with the unique identifier, the payment order is 
deemed to have been correctly executed  by each payment service provider involved in 
executing the payment  order  with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
Ref: DRN33458273(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a)the payment service provider  is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service  user.
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (here, Miss S). And here,  given the capacity in 
which HSBC was acting  for Miss S (as her payment service provider following her payment 
instruction), and that as Ive already  explained, I dont think  HSBC could reasonably  be 
deemed to have been on notice that there was anything unusual  or suspicious about her 
sending a sum of that size to an account  held by another  customer, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably say it should have done  more to check the beneficiary  in the circumstances of 
this payment. 
When HSBC became aware  of the potential  scam  on 28 August 2018,  it should have acted 
quickly to try to recover Miss Ss money  from the beneficiary account. I know  this is 
disappointing to Miss S and I do empathise  with the situation she has found herself in. 
Ultimately, however, it was the fraudster that tricked Miss S. And from the information Ive 
seen HSBC did raise  a payment trace on 28 August 2018 and in any event unfortunately the 
funds Miss S sent to the payee had already been utilised and spent by the payee before 28 
August 2018  so I am satisfied that HSBC  reasonably wouldnt have been able to recover  
the money in any event.
In the circumstances, whilst I empathise  with Miss S and appreciate  she will be 
disappointed, Im satisfied that it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable for HSBC to be held 
responsible for her loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision by 26 December 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3345827