K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Society of Lloyds  hasnt settled his unoccupied home insurance claim 
for damage  caused  by an escape of water in March 2018.  
background
Mr C has insured a second property he inherited  with Lloyds since  2016.  In March 2018  a 
pipe in the loft burst  causing damage  throughout the house, which was unoccupied at the 
time. Lloyds  underwriters sent a loss adjuster to the property  to inspect the damage  and 
validate the claim. The loss adjuster recommended  the claim was accepted and placed  a 
reserve on the claim of almost £64,000.
At this point, Mr C had already had a quote  from a company to strip out the house and dry it. 
The loss adjuster declined to use the contractor Mr C had found  and instead appointed its 
own contractor. That contractor undertook a partial  strip out of the house (removing  
damaged floorings) and prepared the house to be dried (by connecting  power directly to the 
motherboard) but dryers were never installed.  
Underwriters wrote to Mr C in April 2018 to say that whilst  the damage was extensive and 
severe, unfortunately the terms and conditions  of the policy  hadnt  been adhered  to by Mr C 
so the claim was declined. Underwriters  said that whilst the policy  covered damage  caused 
by an escape  of water it also contained a specific policy exclusion that it was relying  on to 
decline the claim. That exclusion said:
Loss or damage [is excluded] unless during the period from 1st November  to 31st March all 
mains supplies are turned off and the water  and central heating systems are drained or the 
central heating system  is kept running  to maintain a temperature  of 15 degrees  centigrade  
throughout the private residence.
Underwriters said that as Mr C had told the loss adjuster the heating  wasnt  running at all 
times the claim wasnt covered.  
In May 2018  Mr C complained to Lloyds about  the refusal to pay the claim and the poor 
customer service  hed experienced.  He said the heating had been switched on and had been 
set to timer to come  on 2-3 times  a day at a temperature sufficient to keep the house  above 
15 degrees centigrade.  Mr C said the clause being  relied on to decline the claim didnt state  
that the heating had to be on constantly.  He said the leak had occurred in the loft which  was 
unheated anyway and he said that the loss adjuster hadnt bothered to go up into the loft to 
inspect the cause of damage.  
Lloyds liaised with underwriters but no consensus  was reached about  whether the claim 
was valid. In frustration,  Mr C complained to this service in July 2018. 
Our investigator chased Lloyds to provide a formal response to Mr Cs claim and Lloyds 
eventually issued its final response letter at the end of October 2018. Lloyds acknowledged 
that underwriters had taken the view that the heating system should  be in constant  operation  
rather than on a timer in order to comply with the policy condition. But it said itd discussed  
the matter at length with underwriters and asked  it to review its decision.  Having done so, 
Lloyds said that underwriters had said they would settle Mr Cs claim on an ex-gratia basis  
subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. And it said that underwriters would pay 
Ref: DRN30327082Mr C compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Lloyds said 
that the underwriters  would be in contact shortly to discuss settlement. 
In November 2018, the loss adjuster told Lloyds it intended to appoint  a surveyor to scope 
the reinstatement works which underwriters would consider against a possible diminution in 
market value (DMV) settlement. Lloyds said to our investigator that underwriters hoped to 
negotiate some form of settlement with Mr C. Lloyds also told our investigator that the 
condition of the property had deteriorated in the meantime because Mr C had done nothing  
with it. It said the loss adjuster had now said the initial reserve of £64,000 was a rough 
estimate. 
Over Christmas 2018, a site meeting was held with Mr C and the loss adjuster. Mr C told our 
investigator that an agreement had been reached  to settle the claim by DMV and that he 
was to appoint  a valuer to calculate what that might be. 
Despite supposedly  agreeing to proceed by way of DMV settlement, the loss adjuster 
scoped the repairs and sent Mr C a spreadsheet at the end of January  2019 along with a 
settlement form offering  to cash settle  the claim for £45,000. The loss adjuster said thered 
been a failure  by Mr C to mitigate the damage  after the initial  loss and that underwriters 
werent liable for the additional  (secondary) damage  that had occurred as result.  
Mr C didnt accept underwriters offer. He pointed out that the loss adjuster had in fact had 
another contractor  scope  the reinstatement  works  in November 2018 and it had said it would 
cost £81,632 plus VAT (on a best case scenario)  to reinstate the house. Mr C said hed be 
willing to accept a settlement  figure  closer to this amount. He also said that underwriters had 
contributed to the secondary damage by declining the claim and by refusing to appoint  his 
own drying contractor immediately after the leak. 
Our investigator issued  his findings in March  2019. He recommended  that the complaint was 
upheld. He said Mr C had complied with the policy condition to keep the house at 15 
degrees so underwriters had unreasonably  declined his claim. He thought  that if the claim 
hadnt been declined then the secondary damage wouldnt have arisen. As none of that was 
Mr Cs fault he thought Lloyds hadnt  treated Mr C fairly by basing the ex-gratia award on 
the cost of repairing the initial damage only. He thought the entire claim should be paid 
because the incorrect  repudiation  of it at the outset was the cause of the further damage. He 
recommended that Mr Cs claim was paid in full. 
Lloyds asked for the complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans  decision  and I issued my 
provisional findings in February  2020. I said the following: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
It is my understanding, in simple terms, that Society  of Lloyds provides centralised 
complaint handling administration to certain  underwriters and syndicates. Mr Cs complaint 
to us was that his policy underwriters had unfairly declined  his escape of water claim. Mr C 
had complained to Lloyds  prior to coming to this service but Lloyds didnt issue  its final 
response to Mr Cs complaint until after hed already referred it to us. When it did, it said that 
whilst underwriters continued to believe the policy condition relating to keeping  the house  at 
Ref: DRN30327083a temperature  of 15 degrees hadnt been  complied with, they said they would settle  Mr Cs 
claim on an ex-gratia basis and pay compensation of £500. 
So underwriters/Lloyds arent currently accepting that Mr Cs claim is a valid one nor that the 
policy engages for the damage claimed for. I dont  think theyve treated Mr C fairly.  
Ive set out above the relevant condition that Mr C was required to comply with. Mr C says 
the heating was set to timer and came on 2-3 times a day such  that the house  remained at a 
minimum of 15 degrees centigrade during  the winter months. Mr C also engaged the 
services of an estate agent  who checked the property weekly  for him whilst it was un-
occupied.  
Underwriters have said that the fact that the heating wasnt on constantly meant the 
condition hadnt  been properly complied  with so consequently it could decline the claim. Im 
unclear from reading the condition why underwriters  continue to think  this. The condition 
says the heating system  must be kept running  to maintain a temperature of 15 degrees  
throughout the property. Having the heating come on 2-3 times a day could achieve this but 
will be dependent on several factors as to whether it actually did. The policy defines private 
residence as the living  accommodation  at the address shown. As the loft space isnt part of 
the living accommodation there  is no policy requirement that it needs to be maintained at a 
temperature of 15 degrees.
If underwriters wanted the condition to state  that the heating should be left on constantly (at 
a particular temperature) then that is what the condition shouldve been  drafted  to say. But it 
doesnt say that. It says the heating system must be kept running  to maintain a temperature  
of 15 degrees throughout the property.  The two are very different. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr C failed  to keep the heating  running so that the 
temperature throughout the property wasnt maintained at 15 degrees.  That means I dont 
think that underwriters have fairly declined Mr Cs claim. And I can see from the file that 
Lloyds doesnt  think the claim has been fairly  declined either.  
In response to Mr Cs complaint  and it appears to me, without admission  of liability  
underwriters have agreed to settle the claim on an ex-gratia basis but I dont think  thats fair. 
In any event, that offer was made as a consequence of Lloyds mediation  and had not been 
based on the policy terms. 
Additionally, as underwriters are aware, if works are started at a damaged  property then a 
contract of repair is entered into with the policyholder. Underwriters should also be aware of 
this services approach  to such situations.  In essence, we take the commencement of 
repairs to mean that an agreement has been reached where the claim will be settled by 
repairing the damage. Its important because if things go wrong  for example, the repair is 
much more complicated and/or much more  expensive that the insurer first realised  the 
insurer cant turn back the clock  and seek to settle  the claim on another basis e.g. by paying 
cash. Its effectively stuck with the choice it made to repair  however much its going  to cost.
So unless Mr C is willing  to agree to do so, I dont  think  underwriters can settle this claim by 
way of cash payment.  And theres  no condition in the policy  that permits underwriters to 
settle claims on an ex-gratia basis. I can see from the file that repairs  were started  theres 
evidence from underwriters contractor  that it started  strip out works  and prepared the house 
for drying.  That being the case, and given the claim should be settled, underwriters should 
continue with the repair and reinstatement  of the property.  
Ref: DRN30327084I appreciate that Lloyds/underwriters based  its ex-gratia offer on the cost of the primary 
damage only but if the claim hadnt  been  unfairly  declined then the secondary  damage 
wouldnt have arisen. As none of that was Mr Cs fault, and as a contract  of repair  has been 
entered into, Lloyds will have to reinstate the property to its pre-loss condition which will 
mean dealing  with the secondary damage  as well. 
So I think this complaint should be upheld.  I think that Lloyds should settle Mr Cs claim by 
continuing with the contract  of repair underwriters entered into with Mr C so that the house is 
returned to the state it was in before the escape of water happened. As I can see that 
Mr C has been put to some considerable inconvenience by underwriters  decision to unfairly 
decline his claim, and as Lloyds  has offered to pay him compensation of £500 in respect of 
that, I agree that this would be a fair amount of compensation  to pay him in the 
circumstances.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and to require  Society of 
Lloyds to do the following:
settle Mr Cs claim for escape of water by continuing with the repairs that have already 
been started in line with the policy terms and conditions;
pay Mr C compensation of £500  for the trouble and upset caused  by the underwriters 
unfair decision to decline the claim.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and said the following:
he accepted  my provisional decision  but the whole  claim had taken about  two years;
that the house had been sold in September  2019  in its unrepaired state  at a price below 
that which couldve been achieved if the damage had been repaired;
that he had received  payment of £45,000  from Lloyds on 6 June 2019;
hed received a total of £600  in compensation from Lloyds for the inconvenience and 
delays hed experienced;
that hed discussed cash settling the claim with the loss adjuster  in December 2018 
because he lived so far from the property that it would be difficult  for him to keep an eye 
on things;
that the surveyor had prepared  a costed schedule of works  for the repairs which  he 
calculated on a best case scenario would cost £81,632 plus VAT, and a worst case  
scenario of £99,110 plus VAT;
as he no longer owned the property hed welcome a cash  settlement.
It was clear to me upon receipt of Mr Cs letter  that, in light of the information  that the 
property had been sold, my proposed redress was an inappropriate means of resolving the 
complaint. That being  the case I wrote to the parties  to explain that my provisional findings  
remained unchanged but the proposed redress must change. 
I said that I thought  Mr Cs complaint should now be resolved by Lloyds settling the claim by 
calculating the diminution in market  value (DMV) caused to the house as a result of the 
damage. I proposed that Mr C provide Lloyds with the name of the purchasers surveyor  so 
it could contact him/her to ask what the propertys  sale value wouldve been if itd been  sold 
in an undamaged state. I said that Lloyds should then deduct the price the property sold for 
from the undamaged  value  provided by the surveyor: this would be the DMV. I then said,  
Lloyds should  deduct the sum of £45,000  itd already paid Mr C for the claim from the DMV 
Ref: DRN30327085amount and add interest at this services  usual rate of 8% simple per year on any amount left 
from the date the house sold to the date Lloyds settled my award.  
I also said that as Mr C had confirmed that Lloyds  had already paid him compensation of 
£600 I didnt propose to award him anymore. I explained that my provisional award had been 
based on the understanding that Lloyds had yet to pay him any compensation but as hed 
already received £600 I didnt think further  compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr C replied to my letter proposing new redress and said that whilst he was happy to accept 
my findings  he did have reservations  about  the method  I was proposing  to use to achieve 
settlement. He said he had no idea what type of valuation survey the purchasers paid to 
have or how detailed it was. He said the only in-depth survey ever carried out was by the 
loss adjusters surveyor whod costed the schedule of works. 
Lloyds replied to say it had no comments to make  in response  to my provisional decision or 
my subsequent letter amending redress. 
The complaint was returned  to me for final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the comments Mr C made  in response to the letter  setting out my 
amended provisional  findings, but theyve  not persuaded  me that I should  change my mind. I 
think the amended  redress  I set out in my letter is a fair and reasonable means  of resolving 
Mr Cs complaint taking all the circumstances, and the policy terms, into account. The policy  
terms provide for the settlement of a claim in the event damage isnt repaired or replaced, by 
the payment of DMV. 
As the house  has been sold, I think that settlement  of the claim in this way is the only 
possible fair outcome.  
Mr C says he has no idea what type of survey the purchasers paid to have. Regardless, 
whatever type it was, the surveyor who conducted  it should be able to provide Lloyds with 
the figure it needs  to calculate  the DMV. I realise that Mr C would like settlement to take the 
form of Lloyds paying him the equivalent  of the cost of the scoped repairs (less £45,000)  but 
I cant ignore that the house  has now been  sold and that its possible to quantify the actual 
loss to Mr C by calculating the loss in its value as a result of the damage (and he didnt incur 
a cost for repairing the house). 
Mr C also mentioned he knew the two figures  the estate agent placed  on the value of the 
house  in its repaired and unrepaired  state  - but he didnt tell us what they were.  Thats  no 
matter however, because  its the surveyors valuation  thats  relevant. And in any event, I can 
see that Mr C discussed  with the loss adjuster over Christmas 2018 settling the claim by 
DMV and that he says hes happy  now to accept my amended  findings.  
Mr C made  no comment in response to my amended provisional findings on compensation 
so those now form part of these, my final findings. For the reasons I gave therein, as Mr C 
had already received £600  from Lloyds  for the inconvenience and delays he experienced, I 
Ref: DRN30327086didnt think a further award of compensation would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. The amount already paid by Lloyds is in line with awards made  by this 
service in complaints  with similar circumstances and is similar to the award  I was prepared 
to make when I thought  Lloyds hadnt  paid any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds, upon provision of 
the details of the valuing surveyor  by Mr C, to calculate the diminution in market  value of the 
property (as set out above) from which  it should deduct the sum of £45,000  already paid to 
Mr C. Interest* should be added to the resultant amount at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date the property  was sold to the date my award is settled.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman 
*If Society of Lloyds  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C  how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr C a certificate  showing  this if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3032708