K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1997. 
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, havent been  disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr Hs representatives disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same  
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made  it clear Mr H didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. I say 
this because Mr H hasnt  said anything  to make me think  this wasnt made clear.  Also his 
mortgage application form appears  to have had a section for the PPI with boxes to say 
either yes or no to the cover.  On Mr Hs form the yes box was ticked, and I think  it 
likely he wouldve known  the no box should  be ticked  instead if he didnt want  the cover.  
Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check the PPI was right for him. 
The evidence about Mr Hs circumstances shows the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong 
or unsuitable for him at the time. For example, he was eligible for it, it was affordable for 
him from what  Ive seen, and, although  he had existing means, I still think he had a need 
for cover. I say this bearing  in mind that I think it unlikely  he wouldve received full pay for 
sickness and redundancy for as long as the PPI benefit couldve lasted.
Ref: DRN32504632Also, there was nothing about  Mr Hs employment or occupation which wouldve made  it 
difficult for him to claim. The policy excluded disability hed sought or received treatment 
for from a medical practitioner in the year before the policy  start, but Mr H hasnt told us 
he had any health  issues hed been treated for during that period. So from what  hes told 
us, he didnt have  any existing health  issues that couldve affected his ability to claim.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take it, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. It wasnt,  
as I concluded  above, unsuitable or fundamentally wrong for him, or too dissimilar  to 
what its likely, from the information  he was given, he reasonably thought  he was buying. 
I bear in mind he was told what it cost before it started and I think it unlikely he wouldve 
bought it without at least  a broad understanding of what it covered. Overall  it seems like 
the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr H if something went  wrong. Because of all this I 
dont think Mr H wouldve declined the cover had Lloyds  done  anything more.
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and contained limitations 
on claims relating to back conditions. But in light of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, as 
discussed above, I dont think the policy was fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for him 
despite its limitations and exclusions. So I think Mr H wouldve still thought he had good 
reasons to take it. I say this bearing in mind the health issue  hes told us of happened ten 
years before  the sale and theres  nothing to suggest  it caused  him continuing problems  
or problems closer to the time of the sale  and Mr H could still claim for absences  from 
back pain in certain circumstances, subject to the policy  limitations referred  to above. 
Overall, I consider Mr H would have still taken  the PPI. I think it couldve provided  a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances. I also think it was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  Mr H thought he was getting.  And, in those circumstances, I think  he wouldve 
taken the policy in any event.
Mr Hs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these  policies represented poor value  because of the number of significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Lloyds shouldve disclosed the poor value  and explained the significance of 
the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had on the chances  of making a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN32504633my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3250463