K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited (trading as Pockit) failed to transfer  
£525 to her friends account and lost her money.
background
In July 2018 Miss M instructed Pockit  to send £525 from her Pockit account to another  
account she has with a third party. She says the money never arrived  in her other account. 
She complained to Pockit, but Pockit told her that it had sent the money to the correct  
account. So she brought this complaint to our Service.  Our investigator looked at Pockits  
evidence and agreed that it showed  that Pockit  had sent the money to the correct account.  
He suggested  that Miss M might wish to complain  to her other bank.
Miss M asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint, and so it has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator.
Pockit has provided  screenshots to show that Miss Ms money left her Pockit account and 
was sent to another account in accordance with her instructions. The screenshots show  
sufficient details for me to be satisfied that they relate to the correct  payment. They  show  the 
same destination account  number  and sort code  that Miss M has told us she wanted  to send 
her money to. So I am satisfied that Pockit  has correctly followed her instructions, and has 
sent her money  to the correct account.
It follows that Pockit has done nothing wrong,  and so I cannot uphold  this complaint.
Since it is not in dispute that Miss M did not receive  her money,  I infer that there are two 
possible explanations  for how this might  have happened, but neither of them would be 
Pockits fault. One is that her other bank has done something wrong, in which  case  Miss M 
should complain  to that bank first, and then complain  to our Service  if she is not satisfied 
with the answer  she is given. Alternatively,  she may have given us and Pockit the wrong  
account details.  I suggest she double-checks this first.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019. But my final decision concludes this Services  
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3596625