K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a third party  claim under 
his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr B reversed into another  vehicle. He called UKI to report the incident and to raise 
concerns about  the vehicles owners  intention to make a claim. Mr B told UKI the other  
vehicle had pre-existing damage to a wheel  arch that he thought its owner might unfairly 
claim for. He said there was no damage caused to the other vehicle. 
Mr B later found out UKI had settled the claim against him without telling him. Mr B 
complained to UKI because he disputed the damage.  He also complained  that UKI didnt tell 
him about the claim, and told him there was no claim  when  he asked. Mr B said UKI didnt 
ask for witness details or photographs of the damage.
UKI said it settled the claim  after its engineer found  the damage  to the other  vehicle was 
consistent with the incident described by Mr B. UKI also said it didnt repair damage to the 
wheel arch as this was thought to be pre-existing. 
UKI said it was wrong not to update Mr B on the claim  and wrong to tell him that there  was 
no claim when he called.  It paid £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this.  
Mr B complained to us and our investigator  said that UKI didnt do anything  wrong by settling 
the third party  claim. He felt the damage  it had paid out for was consistent with the incident. 
And it didnt  need  to provide the photographs it had of the other car to Mr B. And he thought  
the £50 in compensation UKI had paid for not keeping Mr B informed was reasonable. 
Mr B doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes said he doesnt think  
hes received enough  compensation and he thinks UKI should  have released the 
photographs it had of the other vehicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mr Bs policy UKI has the right to take over claims against  him and deal 
with them  as it feels appropriate. But Id expect it to adopt a reasonable approach when 
doing so and to keep  Mr B fully informed. So I it was wrong  not to keep  Mr B informed, but 
Im satisfied UKIs approach to the claim against Mr Bs policy  was reasonable. And it was 
appropriate for it to settle the claim. 
As Ive said,  UKI should have involved Mr B, instead  of just settling it. But I think,  if it had 
involved him, it still would have settled the claim.  Sometimes damage caused when 
someone reverses into another  vehicle isnt always obvious and the damage  UKI agreed to 
repair on the other vehicle was consistent with what Mr B had said had happened.  UKI didnt 
pay for repairs to the wheel arch,  it just repaired and then replaced the front bumper and 
some associated things. UKI has paid Mr B £50 in compensation  for not involving him or 
keeping him informed and for providing him with incorrect information. And Im satisfied this 
Ref: DRN36237582amount is appropriate  for the level of distress and inconvenience he experienced because of 
these errors  by UKI.
UKI has explained it didnt want to release  the images it had of the other  vehicle to Mr B 
without its owners permission and I can understand this. It also didnt want  to put the third 
party to any trouble by connecting them about  this, as it didnt think it was necessary. And I 
think this was also reasonable in the circumstances. 
This all means its not appropriate for me to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3623758