K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). Hes 
unhappy with how Prudential handled the transfer  of his pension  to another  pension  
provider. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September 2019. Ive recapped  the background below:
Mr M had a Stakeholder Pension Plan (plan)  with Prudential.  He wanted to transfer  his plan 
to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) with another pension provider, which Ill refer to 
as Provider A. 
Prior to initiating the transfer to Provider A, Mr M asked  Prudential on 23 May 2018  to switch 
his plan from being invested in Prudentials North American Equity  Passive Fund to its 
Cash Fund. Prudential  processed Mr Ms fund switch  the following day.
On 15 June 2018 Mr M contacted Prudential and asked what his plan number was. 
Prudential advised  it was his National Insurance (NI) number.
Mr M later completed relevant transfer forms and sent these to Provider  A. On the basis of 
information Mr M gave, Provider  A submitted Mr Ms transfer request to Prudential  via the 
Origo Transfer  System  (Origo). 
Prudential received Provider As transfer request for Mr Ms plan via Origo on 26 June 2018.  
Prudential reviewed Provider As request  on the same day. And having  done so, Prudential  
advised Provider A via Origo that it was unable to trace the plan using the number  Provider 
A had given. Prudential asked  Provider A to also provide the correct ceding scheme 
reference number.
Provider A responded  to Prudential via Origo on 2 July 2018 saying Mr M had previously 
called Prudential to check his plan number and been  advised it was his NI number.  Provider 
A said this is what it entered into Origo for the transfer. It asked Prudential  to confirm  if this 
wasnt correct. Prudential  responded  on the same day and again  asked  Provider A to also 
submit the correct ceding scheme reference  number.  
Having been made aware the transfer wasnt progressing Mr M contacted Prudential himself  
on 5 July 2018. Mr M explained he was trying to transfer his pension.  He said hed 
previously phoned  Prudential asking what his plan number  was, that hed been advised it 
was his NI number  and this is what hed given  to Provider A as part of his transfer request. 
Mr M said he couldnt understand  why his transfer hadnt been  processed or why Prudential 
was asking for more  information. 
Prudential explained  that as Mr M was transferring his pension via Origo, his NI number (his 
plan number) and the correct ceding scheme  reference number for his plan were  required. 
Mr M expressed frustration with this and raised a formal  complaint. He didnt think it was 
reasonable that Prudential required more than his NI number to locate his plan and facilitate 
the transfer. 
Following this Provider A contacted Prudential  on 5 July 2018  via Origo saying it had now 
provided the ceding scheme reference number as well as NI number for Mr Ms pension. 
Ref: DRN37263862Prudential processed  the transfer of Mr Ms pension to Provider  A on the same day. The 
transfer was completed  on 11 July 2018.
On 10 August 2018 Prudential responded to Mr Ms complaint.  In summary it said:
Mr Ms plan number  was his NI number. And when this had been provided it wasnt 
able to locate  his plan details
for transfer requests made through Origo it required  not only Mr Ms plan number, but 
also the ceding scheme reference  number. This reference indicated the specific  type 
of scheme Mr M had. With this information (and Mr Ms plan number) Prudentials 
administration team could allocate Mr Ms plan to the correct department to process 
his transfer
because of the amount of schemes  Prudential administered it hadnt  been able to 
allocate Mr Ms original transfer  request to the correct department  without the 
relevant information
Unhappy with Prudentials  response  Mr M referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and initially said:
based on the available evidence she didnt think it was reasonable to have expected 
Mr M to know when  he made his transfer  request that he needed to include his NI 
number and ceding scheme reference number for it to go through.  And there was 
nothing to suggest Prudential had previously  made Mr M aware of this requirement
shed requested call recordings  from Prudential to establish  whether at any stage it 
missed an opportunity to advise  Mr M of what the exact requirements  for the transfer  
were 
she thought  Prudential needed  to do something  to put matters right
Mr M responded to our investigator  and in summary said:
he was sure hed informed Prudential during a telephone call that he wanted  to 
transfer his pension to another provider  
he found it hard to believe Prudential was unable to initially  locate his plan. Especially 
given that his plan number was his unique NI number 
hed been  financially  disadvantaged by the transfer of his pension  being delayed  and 
had remained invested in Cash for longer than he wouldve been had the transfer  
gone through when it shouldve. Hed lost around £11,500 as a result
his intention had always been  to switch  his pension to the Cash Fund  prior to 
transferring and invest in another fund as soon as his transfer to Provider A had been 
completed
Prudential later provided transcripts of Mr Ms calls with it between May and July 2018. Our 
investigator considered  these and issued her assessment of Mr Ms complaint. In summary 
she said:
during a call on 25 May 2018 where Mr M discussed  his fund switch with Prudential, 
she thought Prudential shouldve been able to see the transfer  details Mr M had 
inputted online. Because  of this she said Prudential  shouldve  been aware he hadnt  
included the required  ceding scheme reference  number
Ref: DRN37263863Prudential had the opportunity on 25 May 2018 to warn  Mr M that his transfer 
wouldnt go through based  on the information provided and had it done so Mr M 
couldve avoided the delay with his transfer
she didnt think it was reasonable  for Prudential to have expected Mr M to know that 
when transfer  requests were  made  through Origo that the ceding scheme reference 
number needed  to be included
Prudential should establish what Mr Ms transfer  value  wouldve been had it been 
completed on 25 May 2018.  If Mr M had suffered a loss by the transfer not happening  
on 25 May 2018 Prudential should compensate  him for this
for distress and inconvenience  caused Prudential should  pay Mr M £100 
compensation
Mr M responded and in summary said:
he was originally invested in Prudentials North  America  Passive Fund and because 
he didnt want his pension  to be at risk during the time it would take to transfer to 
Provider A he asked  that his pension be moved from Prudentials North  America 
Passive Fund to its Cash Fund
after the transfer of his pension  to Provider A had been  completed his intention  was 
to invested in Provider As S&P Fund-which he did when  his transfer was completed 
he should be compensated  by any movement in the S&P Fund  between  23 May and 
25 July being  applied to his pension  or by any movement in Prudentials Passive 
Fund during  this period
Prudential responded and in summary said:
Mr M had never mentioned that he was looking  to transfer  his pension during his 
calls with it in May 2018. So it had no reason to check if any transfer  was going 
through at the time when  Mr M asked for his pension plan number
it didnt agree it was responsible for any delay caused in the transfer of Mr Ms 
pension
it provided Mr M with all the relevant information  at the first opportunity (on 
5 July 2018)  so it didnt agree to any of the compensation our investigator  
recommended
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a decision. And my 
provisional findings were  as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of all the arguments  made by both parties, I have limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say:
whether Prudential did all that was required;  fulfilling its responsibility  regarding the 
transfer of Mr Ms pension
whether Prudential caused any avoidable delays in the transfer of Mr Ms pension
whether Prudentials requirements  for Origo  transfer requests are reasonable
Ref: DRN37263864I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr M. Its clear to me the smooth  and timely 
transfer of his pension was something  of great importance to Mr M. Mr M took specific  action 
to safeguard the value of his plan before  it was transferred to Provider A. And this is why he 
asked Prudential to switch his plan to its Cash Fund.  Mr M didnt think  his plan would remain  
in Prudentials Cash Fund for as long as it did. He expected the transfer to go through  
relatively quickly. 
Mr Ms assertion that his intention was always to invest his plan in a specific fund with 
Provider A once the transfer  was completed seems  entirely plausible  to me. So I can 
understand why Mr M is so disappointed with how long the overall transfer  took and that that 
his plan was in a Cash fund for longer than he anticipated. Mr M considers he did all that 
was required to ensure  the transfer  went through as it shouldve, but feels  failings by 
Prudential led to delays  which  resulted  in him suffering  an avoidable financial loss. 
I think a useful starting point would  be a general  overview of the Origo  Transfer  System. 
Based on Mr Ms submissions to this service and his correspondence  with Prudential, Im not 
sure whether  Mr M completely understands the purpose of the Origo Transfer System or 
how it operates. Some comprehension of this is key to understanding where, if anywhere, 
Prudential failed to meet its responsibilities during the transfer  process.
Origo is a real time software package. It allows transfers to take place without the need  for 
pension providers to complete or exchange  the paperwork usually  required for transfers  
completed by more traditional methods  (i.e. post). So Origo is meant to speed things up and 
streamline the transfer process. However Origo  is only available for certain types of transfers 
between pension providers that are signed up to the system. Consumers have no access  to 
Origo.
Both Prudential and Provider  A are signed  up to use Origo.  So when Mr M completed  and 
submitted forms to Provider A in order to transfer  his plan to it, Provider A sent the transfer 
request to Prudential via Origo. Prudentials  responsibility at this point was to pick up the 
request and process it accordingly. Ive seen  the Origo system notes applicable to Mr Ms 
transfer request  and note that Prudential  reviewed Provider As request  on the same day it 
was submitted by Provider A. 
Prudential has explained that in order to identify a consumers pension plan and arrange its 
transfer it requires  specific information  to be submitted  via Origo so it can ensure the transfer 
request is allocated to and processed by the appropriate team  at Prudential. The way 
Prudential ensures the correct transfer  request is passed to the appropriate team  is by 
ensuring it has a consumers plan number (which  in Mr Ms case is his NI number) and their 
plans ceding  scheme reference number. 
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that Prudential shouldve been able to locate and transfer 
his plan based on his unique NI number.  But given  the vast number of plans  Prudential  
administers, a proportion  of which use a consumers NI number as their plan number, this 
simply isnt feasible. For transfers  out Prudentials process is to ask for the ceding scheme 
reference number  for a consumers plan (as well as their plan number) so it can be sure the 
correct plan is being allocated to the right department for processing. 
Prudential has confirmed  that in some cases its possible that consumers  hold more  than 
one pension under  the same plan number  (their NI number) so this is why Prudential  
specifically asks for the ceding scheme reference  number to also be provided so it can 
identify the particular plan concerned. 
Ref: DRN37263865I dont think Prudentials information requirements  for transfer requests via Origo are 
unreasonable. Indeed  I would expect Prudential to have  a system in place to ensure its 
consumers plans can be accurately identified and in doing so mitigate the potential for any 
mistakes with the transfer requests it receives-especially given the vast number of plans 
Prudential is responsible for. Because of this I cant fairly agree with Mr M that Prudentials 
repeated requests via Origo to Provider  A for his ceding scheme reference number were  
inappropriate or that they directly led to any avoidable delay in the transfer of Mr Ms plan.
I think the key issues  here are whether it was reasonable  to expect Mr M or Provider A to 
know that Prudential  required  Mr Ms plan number and scheme reference number for the 
transfer to be completed. 
I can see that sometime prior to Mr Ms transfer request Prudential provided  Mr M with his 
plan number and scheme reference  number in correspondence it sent to him. But given that 
Mr M made his transfer request through Provider  A (and not through Prudential directly) I 
wouldnt have expected him to know his scheme  reference number was needed unless 
Provider A specifically asked Mr M to provide this. I havent seen the paperwork Mr M 
completed and gave to Provider A so I cant say whether this happened or not. Nevertheless 
when providers are making transfer  requests via Origo, if they dont know  what  information  
Prudential requires for a transfer they can call it for confirmation of this. From what  Ive seen, 
once Prudential received Provider As request via Origo on 26 June 2018 Prudential  advised 
Provider A immediately that it needed  Mr Ms scheme reference  number to move the transfer 
forward. Based on this I think Prudential did all that was required to make it clear to Provider  
A what specific information it needed  to take Mr Ms transfer request further.
If what Prudential had asked for wasnt clear  to Provider A I think its reasonable to have 
expected Provider  A to contact Prudential  directly and query this. From what  I can see it 
doesnt look like this is what happened. Following  Prudentials  message to Provider A on 
Origo on 26 June 2018 that it wasnt  able to trace the plan based on the information provided 
(and that it needed  the ceding scheme number),  Provider A didnt  respond  to Prudential until 
2 July 2018 to advise  that Mr M had previously  contacted Prudential to ask what his plan 
number was and had been  told it was his NI number. Again,  Prudential replied to Provider A 
on the same  day saying it needed the ceding scheme  reference  number.
I dont know what conversation Provider A had with Mr M following 26 Jun 2018 or 
2 July 2018 regarding the information Prudential required. But from the available evidence it 
appears that between  2 July 2018  and 5 July 2018  Provider A made Mr M aware of what  
information Prudential  had asked for. Transcripts show  that on 5 July 2018  Mr M called 
Prudential, explained  he was trying to transfer  his plan and that Provider A had said 
Prudential had said it needed the ceding  scheme  reference number.  Once Prudential  
established during the call that Mr Ms transfer  was going via Origo,  it advised  Mr M would 
need to submit his ceding scheme  reference  number as well as his plan number, both of 
which she provided.
Prior to the 5 July 2018 call I cant see that Mr M had any conversations  with Prudential 
about his intention to transfer away so I dont find that Prudential  missed an opportunity to let 
Mr M know what its requirements  were for a transfer  going  through Origo. Mr M asked 
Prudential for confirmation of his plan number on 15 June 2018  but made no mention of his 
intention to transfer.
Ref: DRN37263866Based on the available evidence, it seems to me that there  was a possible delay in the 
transfer of Mr Ms plan being  transferred.  I say this because:
Prudential advised Provider A on 26 June 2018 that it needed the ceding scheme 
reference number  to take the transfer  request  forward  
Provider A didnt  provide the ceding scheme  reference number to Prudential  until 
5 July 2018. The request  was passed  to the relevant  department at Prudential  for 
processing a day later
Prudential completed the transfer of Mr Ms plan to Provider A on 11 July 2018
had Provider A provided Prudential with the ceding scheme reference number on or 
soon after 26 June  2018 it seems likely Prudential couldve processed and completed 
the transfer earlier
Based on the available evidence Im unable to fairly conclude that Prudential  is responsible  
for any potential delay in the transfer of Mr Ms pension however. From what Ive seen 
Prudential acted promptly when picking up Provider As request, responding to advise it 
needed the ceding scheme reference number  and once this was provided, passing  the 
request to the relevant  department for processing.  Prudential also completed Mr Ms transfer 
in line with the relevant service standard for requests like Mr Ms where  the transferring plan 
was invested in Prudential funds.
Overall I dont think Prudential caused  or contributed to any avoidable delay concerning  the 
transfer of Mr Ps plan.  I think  Prudential  did all that was required  in the circumstances and 
that its position regarding its requirement  for Origo  transfers is reasonable. 
I dont doubt Mr Ms strength of feeling  or sincerity in referring this matter  to our service.  But 
based on what Ive seen so far, Im unable to conclude that Prudential has done anything 
wrong in the way Mr M has suggested. And because of this I cant  fairly agree  to our 
investigators recommendation or Mr Ms request that Prudential should pay Mr M 
compensation to take into account perceived delays and subsequent financial loss.
I invited Mr M and Prudential to comment on my provisional decision.
Prudential responded saying it had no comments to make. Mr M responded and in summary 
said:
his first attempt to transfer his plan to Provider  A was around 25 May 2018 and not 
26 June 2018.  He applied to transfer  immediately  after hed asked to switch  to 
Prudentials cash fund
Prudential didnt  ask for the ceding scheme  reference for his plan until 2 July 2018. 
This is despite there being two transfer  attempts before this
Prudential couldve easily searched for his plan using  his NI number to identify which 
plan needed  to be transferred but it didnt bother  to
hed lost around £11,500  due to Prudentials lack of effort  to find his plan along  with 
its poor communication about  information  missing regarding his transfer request 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision remains  
broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im not upholding Mr Ms 
Ref: DRN37263867complaint for the reasons Ive given. However Ill respond to some of the points Mr M has 
made following my provisional decision. 
Id first like to reassure Mr M that while  I wont be responding  to every single point hes 
made, I have  carefully considered all that has been  said. For simplicity Ive summarised the 
relevant points in response to my provisional decision below and provided my responses 
following this.
Mr M says  his first attempt  to transfer his plan from Prudential to Provider A was 
around 25 May 2018 and not 26 June 2018  as suggested  in my provisional  decision.  
He says he applied to transfer  immediately  after hed transferred to Prudentials  cash 
fund
Although Mr M says he applied to transfer  his plan from Prudential to Provider A around  
25 May 2018, theres no record  of Prudential receiving any transfer request from Provider  A 
regarding the transfer before 26 June 2018.  
It may be that Mr M did ask Provider  A to initiate his transfer around 25 May 2018, but the 
fact remains that theres no evidence  to indicate Provider A communicated  any such request 
to Prudential before 26 June  2018.  Because of this Im unable  to conclude  that Prudential  in 
any way delayed the transfer of Mr Ms plan. As I said in my provisional  decision, once 
Prudential received Provider As request via Origo  on 26 June 2018 it advised  Provider  A 
immediately that it needed Mr Ms ceding scheme reference number to move  the transfer 
forward.
Mr M says  Prudential didnt ask for his ceding  scheme reference  number until  
2 July 2018 
Based on the messages Ive seen  Prudential and Provider A exchanged via Origo  system 
regarding Mr Ms transfer, Im satisfied Prudential  asked  Provider  A to submit the ceding 
scheme reference number on 26 June 2018. Provider A didnt respond to this message until 
2 July 2018 via Origo and when it did it still didnt provide the ceding scheme reference 
number Prudential had previously requested.
Mr M has said he called Prudential in May 2018 saying he wanted to transfer his pension  
and asked what information was required. He says Prudential said he only needed to 
provide his plan number  (his NI number) and made  no mention of its requirement for the 
ceding scheme reference too. 
Ive listened carefully  to recordings of the calls Mr M had with Prudential in May 2018 and 
theres no reference made during  the calls to Mr Ms intention to transfer  his plan to another 
provider. Indeed the two telephone calls during this period  only relate to Mr Ms request to 
switch his plan from being in invested  in Prudentials North  America Passive Fund  into its 
Cash Fund and how long this switch would  take. I wouldnt have expected  Prudential  to 
mention during these calls what its requirements were to action a request to transfer a plan 
to another provider  unless this is something Mr M specifically  asked  Prudential  about. 
Theres no evidence to suggest he did.
Ive listened to a call Mr M had with Prudential 15 June 2018, but again theres no mention of 
his intention to transfer his plan to another provider. Mr M only asks Prudential  what his plan 
number is and Prudential  confirms its his NI number. It isnt until Mr Ms call with Prudential 
on 5 July 2018 that he tells Prudential himself that hes trying to transfer to another  provider. 
Ref: DRN37263868And its during  this call Prudential confirms that for transfers via Origo the ceding scheme 
reference number  is required too.
Mr M says  Prudential couldve easily searched for his plan using his NI number to 
identify which plan needed to be transferred but it simply didnt bother looking for it 
on its systems
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that Prudential couldve just searched for his plan using his 
NI number. But this isnt how Prudential works  when  arranging  transfers  out following 
requests made via Origo. Ive already explained why Prudential  uses the process it does and 
I dont think the process Prudential uses  or its information requirements are unreasonable.  
Mr M may feel there  are easier ways  for Prudential to locate a plan for transfer  via Origo but 
it isnt this services role to tell Prudential how to operate. The Financial Conduct  Authority  is 
responsible for this. Moreover, the process  Prudential chooses to put in place in this regard 
is legitimate exercise  of its commercial decision. Its entitled to request the information it 
does and process transfers accordingly.  It isnt for me to interfere  with Prudentials decision 
in this regard.  
Mr M says  hes lost around  £11,500 due to Prudentials  lack of effort and poor  
communication about information missing regarding his transfer request  
I dont agree Prudential failed  to make reasonable efforts  regarding  Mr Ms transfer request, 
communicated poorly or that it caused  him any avoidable financial loss. Indeed I must repeat 
what I said in my provisional decision- I think Prudential did all that was required in the 
circumstances. 
Again, while  I dont doubt Mr Ms strength of feeling or sincerity in referring  this matter to our 
service, Im unable to conclude Prudential has done  anything wrong. It follows therefore that 
I cant fairly agree to our investigators  recommendation or Mr Ms request that Prudential  
should pay Mr M compensation to take into account perceived delays and perceived 
financial losses. Im sorry  to disappoint  Mr M but there are no grounds on which  I can 
reasonably uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3726386