K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) wont meet a claim they made 
under their home insurance  policy for Mrs Bs lost hearing aids.
background
Mrs B lost her hearing aids, so she and Mr B made a claim for them  about £2,500  under 
their home insurance policy.
Ageas said it wouldnt  meet  the claim as Mr and Mrs B hadnt had the aids specifically listed 
on their policy,  and the terms and conditions of the policy insisted this was done, otherwise 
hearing aids were excluded from cover.
Mr and Mrs B said they didnt know they had to do that, and in any case they had £2,000 of 
cover for unspecified personal possessions, but Ageas  said the exclusion was clear and it 
wouldnt meet the claim.
Unhappy about  this Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
their complaint should be upheld, as he didnt think it was made clear that the aids needed to 
be listed. He thought Ageas should  meet the claim,  and pay £100  compensation.
Ageas says that isnt fair, and also points out that even if this complaint is upheld, the 
maximum its obliged to pay would  be £2,000,  as thats the limit for unspecified personal 
possessions. Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether the terms and conditions  associated with Mr and Mrs 
Bs policy made it clear  Mrs Bs hearing aids werent covered unless theyd listed  them as 
particular items on their policy.
I started  by looking at Mr and Mrs Bs schedule   because that summarises the cover they 
bought. It says, under Personal Possessions,  that Mr and Mrs B have £2,000 of cover  for 
unspecified items. There are no specified  items.
Ive also read the policy documents.  The only mention  of hearing aids I can find is on page 
12 of the policy,  amongst  a list of personal possessions  Ageas says it wont pay for. The 
wording says:
 We will NOT pay for loss or damage:
a-f (not listed here) 
g. to contact, corneal  or micro corneal lenses, hearing aids,  dental appliances unless 
otherwise stated in the specification forming part of the Schedule ;
h-m (not listed here)
Ref: DRN36476892Schedule is defined elsewhere  as The Schedule forms part of this policy  and contains  
details of the Home,  the Sums Insured, the Period of Insurance and the sections  of this 
insurance which apply.
Theres no definition of specification. I dont think its clear  that this condition draws  enough  
attention to the fact that Mr and Mrs B had to list the hearing aids (or other items) to get 
cover for them. I think thats  especially so if the items are (or the consumer thinks they are) 
worth less  than the £2,000 limit for unspecified  personal possessions. Furthermore, I dont 
think the list of things that arent covered draws sufficient attention to items like hearing aids.  
Theyre in amongst list of other health  related items, which in itself is part of a much larger 
list of diverse exclusions.
So I understand why Mr and Mrs B didnt list the hearing aids.  I do appreciate that Ageas 
might want  to limit its liability for things like this, but if it wants  to do that then it should make 
exclusions like this clearer.
I think Ageas  should put things right for Mr and Mrs B. That means it should meet  Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim subject  to any remaining terms and conditions that might affect the claim.  It 
might want  to note that Mr and Mrs B say the aids arent a pair  they were  just both lost at 
the same  time. And Mr and Mrs B have been  without the use of their money for some time,  
so Id expect Ageas  to add interest  at the statutory rate to any payment to make  up for this.
Ageas says that it would  have charged extra if Mr and Mrs B had told it about  the aids. It 
estimates that at about £49. I think its fair that Ageas  deduct  that from any payment it makes 
if it so wishes.
Finally Ageas said it didnt  want to pay any compensation  as it hadnt done  anything wrong. 
As I said above, I dont  think  it was made  clear  that Mr and Mrs B should declare the aids  
and Mr and Mrs B have been  more  inconvenienced  than necessary during this process. so it 
follows I think there have been errors and Ageas should pay the compensation. 
Ref: DRN36476893my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Ageas Insurance  Limited to:
Meet Mr and Mrs Bs claim subject  to any other  terms  and conditions  in the policy.  
Ageas can deduct the additional  premium  it would have charged from the settlement
Pay interest* at 8% per annum simple on any cash  settlement for the period from the 
date Mr and Mrs B paid to replace the aids to the date of settlement. 
Pay £100 compensation for the way it dealt with the claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3647689