K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the amount which AXA Insurance UK Plc offered in settlement of 
a claim under his buildings insurance  policy after his flat was damaged  by water leaks.
background
Mr S owned  a flat in a block of flats. The block was covered by an insurance policy held by 
the freeholder.  The policy was underwritten by AXA.
In July 2017, Mr Ss mother  appointed builders to carry  out renovation works at Mr Ss flat. 
The flat was unoccupied at the time.
In October  2017, during the course of the work, Mr S says the builders came across  
evidence of damage caused  by three  separate escapes of water  which  had caused damage  
to the boiler cupboard, kitchen and bathroom.  Mr Ss mother  reported the damage to the 
buildings management  company employed  by the freeholder (which Ill call L). She also,  on 
behalf of Mr S, made a claim under the policy. She provided quotes showing the repair  cost 
to be in excess of £20,000.
AXA arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the property.  However,  by the time the loss 
adjuster attended, the property had already been largely stripped out. The loss adjuster said 
this meant  she was unable to properly assess the extent of any damage. After seeking  
further information from the freeholder and L, AXA made an offer of £500 to settle  the claim. 
It said it believed this was sufficient to cover  the cost of damage which  a leak may have  
caused to the boiler cupboard and to the kitchen walls and ceiling. It considered there was 
no evidence that a leak had affected  the bathrooms.
Mr S was unhappy at AXAs offer. He said he had provided photographs showing the extent 
of the damage. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  
AXAs offer had been fair.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered that photographs taken by his 
builders clearly showed water damage to the bathroom. He disputed that the kitchen had 
been fully stripped out at the time the loss adjuster first visited but considered in any case 
that the photographic evidence showed  that water damage had been  caused not only to the 
walls and ceiling but also to the units. He considered that if there  was a problem due to the 
work being started before the damage had been  properly inspected, it was AXAs fault for 
not visiting the property sooner. He believed its settlement offer was far too low.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The background of events  is not entirely clear. It was Mr Ss mother,  acting on her sons 
behalf, who engaged the builders, managed their work and made  the insurance claim.  It 
Ref: DRN33600322wasnt until October 2018 that Mr S began dealing with AXA directly.  The accounts of Mr S 
and his mother sometimes  differ from one another.
However, it seems that the builders said they had found water damage in three  different 
areas of the flat, namely  the boiler  cupboard, the kitchen  and the inside of a wall between 
two bathrooms.  In October  2017, Mr Ss mother  notified  L of this damage. L arranged  for a 
plumber to attend. Mr Ss mother obtained  quotes for the repair  work  and provided  these to L 
in November 2017. L then notified the freeholder  which made  a claim to AXA.
AXAs loss adjuster visited the property  in December 2017.  The loss adjuster reported that 
much of the repair work had already been  carried out. Therefore, based on her inspection, 
she couldnt say what damage had been caused  or how much this might reasonably have 
cost to repair.
AXA therefore sought photos  from Mr Ss mother. It also sought  comments  from the 
freeholder and L. I consider  that this was reasonable.
In terms of the bathroom, L reported  that its plumber had attended in October 2017 shortly 
after Mrs S had reported a sewerage leak affecting the property.  L provided a copy of the 
plumbers report.  This said that on attending  he found that the entire  bathroom,  including all 
units and the walls,  had already been  removed. He said he could find no current  leak, nor 
evidence - such as water  marks, stains or smells - that there  had been such  a leak. L 
confirmed that it had never had to make a repair to a soil stack in or above  Mr Ss flat.
Mr S has provided a photograph taken  by the builders which he says shows  water marks 
and wastage on the inside  of the plasterboard wall. However, while AXA accepted that 
photographs showed evidence of black mildew on the inside  of the plasterboard,  it 
considered this was likely to be historic  and didnt show that the structural  integrity of the 
plasterboard had been affected.
Overall, I dont  consider  that Mr S has shown  there  was a foul water  leak,  or any other  recent 
water leak,  which caused  damage necessitating  repair to the bathrooms.  I therefore consider 
it was reasonable  for AXA to say it wouldnt pay for any repairs  to the bathrooms.
With regard to the boiler cupboard, AXA accepted there was evidence that there  had been  a 
leak which had caused damage.
With regard to the kitchen, AXA again  accepted  there was evidence  that there  had been a 
leak which had caused damage to the walls and ceiling. However, the loss adjuster reported  
that when she visited the property, the units had already been  stripped out so she was 
unable to assess any damage to these. Mr S has disputed that the units  had been stripped 
out by this stage,  though he wasnt involved in overseeing the works and didnt appear to be 
visiting the property  on a regular basis. For this reason, I consider the loss adjusters 
account is more  likely  to be accurate.
Once again, Mr S has provided photographs taken by the builders. AXA has seen these 
photos but wasnt persuaded that they showed damage for which  it should be liable. Having 
considered the photos myself,  while they indicate  that the units may have suffered some  
water damage, I dont  consider  that they reasonably  show the damage was caused by a 
recent water leak such that cover  would apply under the policy. In view of all the evidence, 
I think it was reasonable  for AXA to say it would  pay only for repairs to walls and ceiling, and 
not for the replacement of the units.
Ref: DRN33600323AXA saw the property only after it had been stripped out and some  repairs already carried 
out. It therefore wasnt able to use its own contractors to do the necessary repair work 
covered by the policy. It invited Ls contractor, who was very familiar with the properties in 
the block, to estimate  the likely cost of carrying out the repairs  in question.  I think  this was a 
fair approach. Based on the estimate it received, AXA offered a settlement of £500.  Im 
satisfied this was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3360032