K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his home  emergency  insurance 
policy with Aviva Insurance  Limited.  Aviva  uses agents to manage claims on its behalf. As 
the claims-handling agents were acting on behalf  of Aviva, whenever  I refer to Aviva  in this 
decision it should be read as including those  agents.   
background
In August  2017,  Mr C made a claim under his policy when his boiler  stopped working. Aviva 
arranged for a gas engineer to attend.  He advised  that the printed circuit board (PCB) 
needed to be replaced. The engineer arranged to order  the part to be fitted at a later date. A 
second engineer then attended and found  water in the boiler, which  he thought  was due to 
corrosion of the boiler flue. 
Aviva said the flue had holes in it making it dangerous to use and due to the age of the 
boiler, it was unable to obtain a replacement flue. Aviva therefore cancelled  the policy cover 
for the boiler,  in accordance with the following  policy term: 
Obsolete parts and BER - first 6 months  - If upon  making a claim during the first 6
months of cover  your boiler is deemed  to be beyond economic repair (BER) or the parts 
required to fix your boiler are obsolete, you will be transferred to a similar policy  without 
cover for your gas boiler.
Mr C is very unhappy with this. He said Aviva should still have replaced the PCB. He 
appointed his own boiler engineer to look at the boiler, who turned it back on and it has been 
working properly  ever since. After waiting  to see if the boiler would continue to work, he 
applied for cover with an alternative insurance  provider. That provider inspected his boiler, 
issuing a checklist confirming the flue was fine, and agreed to cover him.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he was not persuaded there was enough evidence  that Aviva  had acted  
unreasonably. 
Mr C doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment  and so the matter has been referred to 
me. Mr C has made a number of submissions, in his initial complaint and in response  to the 
investigator. I have  summarised these below: 
 
he had paid Avivas  engineers  to carry out a powerflush that it told him was required 
before it would provide the insurance in April 2017. Aviva also carried out an annual  
service on the boiler then four months  later, hes told the boiler  is obsolete. The 
corrosion cant have  happened in that four month period. 
Aviva  forged his signature on its engineers report; the signature is not his and it 
appears to have been created on 10 October  2017. 
All independent gas safe engineers need to follow the same guidelines to assess if a 
boiler is safe or not. So how is it that Avivas engineers report is accepted  (when he 
has not assessed the safety aspect of the boiler  at all) but the other two independent  
engineers reports  are rejected just because they have not specified anything about  
the flue in their reports?
Theres no evidence the boiler was unsafe  to operate and neither engineer he called 
in since placed  an at risk/dangerous to use notice  on the boiler, which  is the practice 
in such situations.  
Ref: DRN34635552The investigator has not dealt with the poor customer service  he experienced. 
Mr C says he feels the investigator has simply accepted Avivas evidence  without 
question and has asked  him to provide  evidence to counter this, instead of asking 
Aviva to substantiate why it says the flue is dangerous,
He does not intend to spend any more money  on getting another  engineer,  as he 
thinks he has provided enough  evidence to support his case. 
It has been more  than a year and the boiler continues to work safely  and without any 
issues, which proves that Aviva misdiagnosed the problem.  
If Aviva thinks that a faulty  flue was causing the issue and it has been  obsolete for  
years, why did it not tell him it would not be able to cover the boiler at the beginning 
of the contract? And if the flue was causing the issue, how does  the boiler continue to 
work without any problems since then (using  the very same flue)?
Both the independent Gas Safe engineer  and the other provider Gas have confirmed 
that boiler is working properly and safe to operate. 
Mr C asks for £10,000 compensation for the hardship caused to him and his wife who was 
recovering from surgery and needed a warm house. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas engineers note of his attendance on 9 August 2017 says he detected  gas outside 
the boiler and found the flue rotted  out and allowing water into boiler. He put an at risk 
notice on and turned the boiler off. 
This report is apparently  signed by Mr C but he says Aviva  forged his signature.  There is no 
convincing evidence that Aviva forged Mr Cs signature on the report. Its difficult to see any 
reason why it would  do so, given there  doesnt seem to be any dispute that the report  
reflects what  that engineer said and did on the day. I also note that the signature for Mr C  
on this report is not so dissimilar from the one on the annual service report Mr C provided  
from his new insurance provider, as to be obviously not the same persons signature. Im not 
therefore persuaded that there is sufficient evidence that this was forged.
Mr C also says the report is wrong  and the engineer misdiagnosed  the problem with the 
boiler, as it has been working since his own engineer attended  on 14 August 2017.  The 
report form this engineer says: 
14/08/2017  Visit Description : Gas boiler  failure
Accepted Time : 08:16 Travel Time : 08:16  Arrive Time : 08:16
Visit Time : morning Completed  Time : 08:19
Engineer Feedback  : Arrived at property to find warning sticker on gas boiler. Boiler is 
working correctly and sticker has been removed. Customer  will keep us informed of boiler  
operation Boiler has been left running  and is safe to operate.
This records that he was at the property for three minutes and only looked  at the boiler  and 
not the flue. Aviva does not therefore  accept that this is sufficient to prove  that its engineer 
was incorrect in diagnosing that the flue needed to be replaced. I agree. The engineer  spent 
very little time looking at the boiler,  doesnt mention the flue and seems to have simply 
turned the boiler on and left. I am not able to accept this is enough  to establish that Avivas 
engineers were incorrect. 
Ref: DRN34635553Mr C has provided a boiler annual service  check list from another  provider dated 4 May 2018 
(around nine months  after he made the claim to Aviva) which says the boiler  is working well 
and the flue has been checked and is fine. This does prove the boiler and flue are both safe 
and working well - as of May 2018 - but doesnt  prove that this is the case from August 2017. 
I note Mr C says he waited  to see if the boiler  continued to work okay  before  arranging 
alternative insurance (and also said he thought  he needed to let the policy with Aviva expire)  
but even if I accept this, I cant  accept  the report as proof that Avivas  engineer  was 
incorrect. 
Mr C has said we should be asking  Aviva for more evidence about why the flue was unsafe,  
rather than asking him to provide evidence it is not. Aviva did provide evidence it was unsafe 
 from its gas engineer whose report is cited above,  says it was rotted and causing water  
into the boiler and gases  to escape.  The engineer also took several  photos  of the boiler and 
the flue to support his report. Aviva  has also had these looked at by another  engineer who 
confirmed they showed evidence of water damage and corrosion present in the boiler. Mr C 
is effectively asking me to disregard that evidence and accept that the flue was safe and was 
not corroded. I cant do so without some  evidence from a suitably qualified  source.  There is 
no such evidence available. 
Mr C has suggested that a problem with the flue does not render the boiler unsafe but I am 
unable to accept  this. It is correct that the boiler  itself might still work but it cant  or shouldnt 
be used with a faulty flue. It is part of an annual service to check that the flue is safe,  as it is 
required to take the products of combustion  away from the boiler and safely  out of the 
property. If the flue is damaged / faulty  this will usually mean the boiler cant  be used. 
 
Mr C also says that if the flue was so important, Aviva should  have checked it during the first 
inspection before taking out the policy. I dont  know  whether it did so or not. As Mr C has 
said, the corrosion  would  not all have happened within four months but it is possible it was 
still safe to use in April 2017 but became dangerous over the next few months. In any case, 
Aviva was prepared  to cover the boiler  and flue and was prepared to replace the flue. It only 
couldnt do so because it found later that it was obsolete  and couldnt therefore get a 
replacement. Parts  are sometimes available to buy still for some time after they become 
obsolete (and are no longer being  manufactured) and Aviva was prepared  to cover  the boiler 
and flue, so I am not persuaded that it should never have offered  the insurance in the first 
place. 
Mr C is also unhappy with the service provided  by Aviva, particularly  in relation to his 
complaint and the delays in answering it. I do not consider that the claim was handled 
unreasonably. There  were no unnecessary delays ad while Mr C was unhappy with the 
outcome, I do nto consider that Aviva needed to do anything  further  in relation to the claim. 
Aviva did caused delays in answering  Mr Cs complaint  but he had the right to come to us if 
he did not get any response within  eight  weeks of making the complaint to Aviva  and it also 
let him now this. So while it must have been frustrating to have to wait and chase  up a 
response, his rights  were unaffected. I do not therefore consider that any award is required 
for this. 
Ref: DRN34635554my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Aviva  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3463555