K821x#15complaint
Mrs P and Mr M are unhappy that a car supplied to them under a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading  as Moneybarn, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs P and Mr M are being represented  in this complaint by Mrs Ps father.  But, for ease of 
reference, Ill refer to everyone in my decision as Mrs P.
background
In October  2017, Mrs P was supplied with a used car through a conditional  sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement  was for £10,095 over 60 months, with monthly repayments 
of £381.76. At the time, the car was just over 3 years old and had done 49,198 miles. In 
February 2019, when  itd done 59,227 miles,  the car broke down as a result of an issue with 
the turbo.  This was replaced, but the car broke down again  in April 2019  and for a further 
time in July 2019.  The car hasnt been used since July 2019.  
Mrs P complained to Moneybarn in March 2019. She wanted to reject the car but Moneybarn 
didnt agree. So Mrs P brought the complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator said the car broke  down in February 2019 because  there  was a problem with 
the turbo.  And the evidence  showed  the turbo had been replaced in July 2017  a few 
months before Mrs P took possession  of the car, and 17 months before this new turbo failed. 
The adjudicator didnt think it was reasonable that a new turbo  failed after such a short  
period of time, and after the car had only travelled around 10,000  miles.
The adjudicator also said the evidence showed  that the cause of this turbo  failure was likely  
to be because the incorrect grade of oil had been  used. She also thought it was likely  that 
the damage to the engine caused  by the use of the wrong oil caused  the other faults Mrs P 
was experiencing.  And she thought all of this wouldve been present when Mrs P took 
possession of the car.
So the adjudicator recommended that Mrs P be allowed to reject the car, and that 
Moneybarn should  unwind  the finance  agreement.  She said Moneybarn should refund the 
deposit plus interest, refund all of the payments Mrs P has paid since July 2019, refund the 
cost of the turbo repair and pay Mrs P £250 to compensate her for the distress  and 
inconvenience shed  been caused.
Mrs P didnt agree with the compensation recommended by the adjudicator.  She said that, in 
addition to the refund of the deposit and finance payments from March  2019, Moneybarn 
should pay all of the garage  and diagnostic costs relating to the breakdowns, pay her car 
hire car costs, and that the distress and inconvenience payment should be increased to a 
minimum of £500. Shes also said that shes had to buy another  car, at a cost of £1,250, 
because the car supplied  by Moneybarn isnt useable.
Mrs P has also said shes  spoken to a previous owner of the car, the one who had the turbo  
replaced just before  she took possession. And she said the previous owner told her the cost 
of the first replacement turbo wasnt covered under the warranty,  because hed missed  a 
service. And this decision had been  unsuccessfully challenged with the Motor Ombudsman.
Ref: DRN33139472Moneybarn also didnt  agree with the adjudicator. Theyve said that, because of the time 
thats passed between Mrs P taking possession of the car and it breaking down, Mrs P is 
responsible for proving the fault was present  at the time the car was supplied.  Theyve also 
said that they werent given the opportunity to repair the car when it broke  down in February  
2019. And they think the mileage the car did between  supply and breakdown was sufficient 
to have impacted  on the performance of the turbo. So this matter has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2020,  where  I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations;  any 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what  I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  Mrs P was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement  which  means 
were able to look into complaints  about it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car shouldve  been of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  
Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  
given the price, description other  relevant circumstances. In a case  like this, this would 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale;  and the vehicles history. 
So, if I thought  the car was faulty when Mrs P took possession of it, and this made  the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
The car was first registered in September 2014.  So, when Mrs P took possession  of it in 
October 2017, it was just three years  old. And at the time the car had done 49,198 miles. I 
wouldnt expect to see major wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. 
When the car broke down in February 2019,  Mrs P arranged  to have it repaired. The repair  
was done on 8 March 2019, when the car had done 59,227 miles. To repair the car the turbo 
needed to be replaced and the oil system  needed  to be drained  down and cleared. 
Ive seen a letter from a main dealer, dated 27 March 2019. The letter  confirms  that the oil 
for this vehicle is very specific and can cause ongoing issues internally that may or may not 
present itself straight away. The letter goes on to say the irregular servicing and incorrect 
oil has invalidated the {warranty}.  Ive  also seen the details from the Motor  Ombudsman, 
when they considered the previous owners complaint. And theyve  said the failure  of the 
previous owner  to have the car serviced  when it shouldve been invalidated the warranty.
And when  the car broke down again  in April 2019, the main dealer who inspected it indicated  
there were problems which had caused  an oil smell and the engine management light to 
come on. The estimate for repair was almost  £3,000. But the main dealer recommended 
some things Mrs P could do to try and clear the fault. She did these instead,  but the car 
broke down  for a final time in July 2019. The breakdown company who attended  the repair 
thought the previous issues with the turbo  may have contributed  to this breakdown. Mrs P 
has since been told the engine needs to be replaced  and the car hasnt been used since.
Ref: DRN33139473So what  I need to consider is whether any reasonable  person would expect to have  to 
replace a turbo in a car that was 4 years old and had only done 59,227 miles. I also need 
to consider whether the fault with the turbo  was present or developing at the time Mrs P took 
possession of the car.
Ive seen an invoice  dated 30 June 2017,  showing the previous owner had work done  at a 
main dealer.  This invoice shows the turbo was seized and needed  to be replaced.  And the 
oil system  needed to be drained and cleaned. At the time this work was completed,  the car 
had done 48,760 miles. And Ive noted  the repairs needed in 2017 were exactly the same as 
the repairs needed in 2019.
Given that the car had a new turbo just before Mrs P took possession of it means the turbo 
failed after only 10,467 miles.  I appreciate that Moneybarn  consider that the 18-months 
thatd passed  between Mrs P taking  possession of the car and the turbo  failing was sufficient  
for to have  impacted the turbos performance. But I dont agree.
While you could argue  that a turbo  may need replacing after 59,227  miles, its highly unlikely 
a turbo  would need to be replaced  after just 10,467  miles. Or that a car would need three 
turbo units when it was only 4 years old and had done 59,227  miles. So I dont agree with 
Moneybarn that this is an ongoing maintenance issue,  or something  thats  serviceable  and 
wear and tear in nature.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied there was an underlying problem with the cars engine  
that caused the turbo to keep failing. And, even  if the root cause of this was that the wrong 
oil has been used, the fault existed  before Mrs P took possession of the car. And the wrong 
oil was used in the car before Mrs P took possession of it, so shes  not at fault for this.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that goods can be rejected when after one attempt at 
repair the goods still do not conform to the contract. Theres been one attempted repair here, 
albeit this was arranged by Mrs P and not Moneybarn. And the goods still dont conform to 
contract, for the reasons Ive explained above.  So having regard to all the circumstances, 
and the relevant law, I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs P to be able to reject the car.
Moneybarn have said that they werent given the opportunity to repair  the car when it first 
broke down.  Because Mrs P had the car for 18 months, its not surprising that her first 
thought was to take it to a garage, and not to phone Moneybarn. And the garage  diagnosed 
the fault and repaired the car. Again, I dont think this was unreasonable.
But Ive also considered what wouldve happened if Moneybarn were  given the opportunity 
to repair  the car. There are two likely scenarios   Moneybarn wouldve paid for the turbo 
repair or they wouldve said it was a maintenance/wear and tear issue  and refused to do so.
In the first scenario, the turbo wouldve been  replaced, and the car wouldve broken down 
again in April and July 2019  because  of the underlying  issues  with the engine. The only 
difference between  this scenario and what actually happened is that Mrs P paid for the turbo 
repair, not Moneybarn.
In the second  scenario, Mrs P would most  likely have brought her complaint to us at that 
point. And, given the history of the car and the replacement turbo in June 2017; we wouldve  
most likely told Moneybarn  to repair the car. And then it wouldve still broken down again 
because of the underlying  issues with the engine.
Ref: DRN33139474So, in either scenario, Moneybarn wouldve ended up paying for a repair  that wouldve been 
ultimately unsuccessful.  And Mrs P wouldve had the right to reject  the car because  it didnt 
confirm to contract.  So I dont consider the fact that Moneybarn didnt have the opportunity to 
repair the car in February/March 2019 has any impact  on whats  fair and reasonable.
And as Moneybarn wouldve ended up paying  for the repair  in either  scenario described  
above, I think they should do so now. I also think its reasonable they pay the cost of the 
diagnostics thatve taken  place since the turbo repair  if things had happened as they 
should, Moneybarn  wouldve  paid for an inspection  for this breakdown to see if the faults 
identified stemmed from the turbo  issue theyd paid to have fixed.
Given all of the circumstances,  the adjudicator recommended  Moneybarn should allow Mrs 
P to reject the car and unwind  the agreement. She also said Moneybarn should  refund the 
deposit plus interest. Im in agreement with this. 
The adjudicator also recommended  Moneybarn  should refund all of the payments from July 
2019, as this is when the car ceased to be on the road and used. Having checked the MOT  
records, Ive seen the MOT for the car expired  on 3 October 2019, and its had a SORN 
since this date. Given this, and that the report from the breakdown company on 15 July 2019  
says advised not to drive, Im satisfied the car hasnt been  used since.  So Moneybarn 
should refund all payments made  from August 2019,  plus interest.
Because of the breakdowns, the time the car spent being repaired or otherwise in a garage,  
and the fact that it wasnt useable from 15 July 2019 onwards, Im also satisfied that Mrs P 
had impaired use of her car from March to July 2019. So Moneybarn  should also refund part 
of the payments for this period, plus interest, to reflect that impaired usage. I think  25% is 
fair, as I estimate Mrs P didnt have use of the car for around 25% of this period  of time.
Mrs P has said that, while her car was in for repair, she had to rent a hire car. And shed like 
Moneybarn to pay the costs for this. When looking at whats fair, Im looking to put Mrs P 
back in the situation she wouldve been  if Moneybarn had been given the opportunity to 
repair the car in March  2019 and had agreed  to do so. Theres nothing  in the agreement that 
says Moneybarn would provide alternative transport while  the car was being repaired so, 
unless the garage  was able to provide a courtesy  car, Mrs P would always  have had to 
arrange for alternative transport. Because of this, I dont  think  its reasonable for Moneybarn  
to pay Mrs Ps hire car costs. 
And if Moneybarn had allowed Mrs P to reject the car in March 2019, she wouldve been left 
in a position where she needed to buy a replacement. So I dont think Moneybarn should 
cover the costs of the replacement car she purchased after the July 2019 breakdown.
Finally, Mrs P has said that she wants a minimum of £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
this situation has caused her. And shes said on more  than one occasion  this has gone on 
longer than it should have. Shes  also said that, because the adjudicator  got some dates 
wrong, this gave Moneybarn the opportunity to reject the adjudicators view, which has 
meant things have taken  longer.
While it is the case that its taken longer for this case to be investigated and decided than I 
would like, and Id like to apologise for this, I disagree with Mrs Ps assessment of the 
situation. Moneybarn  didnt accept the adjudicators  view because they didnt think  Mrs P 
had proved the fault with the car was present when she took possession  of it. While the 
dates were a factor,  Moneybarn wouldve rejected the view even  if this wasnt the case.
Ref: DRN33139475And Mrs P also rejected the adjudicators view. While she accepted that she should  be 
allowed to reject the car, she didnt accept the compensation the adjudicator recommended.  
So, even if Moneybarn had accepted  the adjudicators view, because  Mrs P didnt, this 
matter would always have  needed  to go to an ombudsman  for a decision. And, because  of 
this, Im not considering the complaints process, and the time this has taken, when 
considering whats  reasonable to compensate Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience 
shes been caused. For these reasons I think the £250 recommended  by the adjudicator is 
reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont be increasing this.
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold Mrs P and Mr Ms complaint. Moneybarn  
No. 1 Limited should:
Allow Mrs P and Mr M to reject  the car and unwind the agreement,  updating their 
credit files accordingly and removing  any adverse information.
Refund the deposit paid, plus 8% simple interest a year from the date the deposit 
was paid to the date of refund.
Refund all payments from August 2019 onwards, plus 8% simple interest a year from 
the date of each  payment to the date of refund.
Refund 25% of the payments from March to July 2019  inclusive,  plus 8% simple  
interest a year from the date of each payment  to the date of the refund.
Pay Mrs P and Mr M the cost of the turbo repair in March  2019, and the fault 
diagnostics since this date, plus 8% simple interest a year from the date they made 
these payments to the date of the refund.
Pay Mrs P and Mr M £250 to recognise  the distress and inconvenience  this matter  
has caused them.
Responses
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs P accepted my provisional  
decision, confirming  that all payments remain up to date and paid, including  the payment for 
January 2020.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has objected to my provisional  decision. And I havent received any comments 
or additional evidence that changes my view.  So, for these reasons, I see no compelling  
reasons not to make my provisional decision final.
Ref: DRN33139476my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mrs P and Mr Ms complaint. Moneybarn  No. 1 
Limited must:
Allow Mrs P and Mr M to reject  the car and unwind the agreement,  updating their 
credit files accordingly and removing  any adverse information.
Refund the deposit paid, plus 8% simple interest a year from the date the deposit 
was paid to the date of refund.
Refund all payments from August 2019 onwards, plus 8% simple interest a year from 
the date of each  payment to the date of refund.
Refund 25% of the payments from March to July 2019  inclusive,  plus 8% simple  
interest a year from the date of each payment  to the date of the refund.
Pay Mrs P and Mr M the cost of the turbo repair in March  2019, and the fault 
diagnostics since this date, plus 8% simple interest a year from the date they made 
these payments to the date of the refund.
Pay Mrs P and Mr M £250 to recognise  the distress and inconvenience  this matter  
has caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 February  2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3313947