K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his home emergency insurance  
policy held with U K Insurance Limited (UKI). UKI uses agents  to deal with claims on its 
behalf, so any reference to UKI in this decision should also be read as including  those  
agents. 
background
Mr F reported a leak from his immersion heater on 3 January 2019.  UKI sent a plumber out 
to him the next day, but he said he couldnt  repair it, as he was not a heating  engineer.  UKI 
sent a heating engineer  out on 8 January  2019. He said the heater could not be repaired 
and there  is no cover  for a replacement under the policy. UKI apparently told Mr F to try and 
make a claim under his home  insurance.
On 10 January 2019, the leak got worse and Mr F says it caused water  damage to his 
property. Mr F says he tried to call UKI again  but couldnt get through  until the next day when  
UKI told him again  he was not covered.
Mr F arranged for his own contractor to attend  who diagnosed the problem with the heater 
and ordered parts to repair it. The repair was completed and the leak resolved. Mr F made a 
home insurance claim to repair the water damage and he also had to replace a light fitting, 
which was not covered  under his contents  cover.
Mr F is very unhappy with UKIs handling of the claim. He says the heater was repairable  
and therefore  should have  been  covered under the policy; and if UKI had diagnosed the 
problem correctly at the outset,  his home  would  not have suffered the damage it did.
UKIs agents reimbursed  Mr F £172 for his contractors costs,  £101 for the light and also 
paid him £100  compensation  for the delays. 
Mr F says this is not enough  to compensate him for the trouble caused and his losses.  Mr F 
says he had to pay an excess  under  his home  insurance (in the complaint form he has said 
this was £335 and elsewhere said it was £350) and had to have decorators working in his 
home for a week.  Mr F also says his home insurance premium  for the following year was 
around £50 more and his claims  history will continue to affect  future premiums.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She concluded that the complaint  should be 
upheld, as she was satisfied the heater was repairable under the policy.  This could therefore 
have been repaired  on 4 or 8 January 2019. The investigator also said the evidence was that 
the leak wasnt significant at first and got worse  after the appointment on 8 January 2019,  
causing damage to Mr Fs home. Initially, the investigator thought that UKI should repay the 
home insurer the value  of that claim but subsequently revised her assessment and 
recommended that UKI should reimburse  Mr F for the home insurance excess  and also pay 
him a total of £350 compensation (to include the £100 already paid) for the trouble caused to 
him and the fact is home insurance claims history has been affected. 
UKI doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment. It says there  is no evidence that the home  
insurance claim could have been  avoided and there  was already water damage when it first 
attended the property. It doesnt therefore consider it should pay the home insurance 
excess. UKI also says that there is no evidence there has been  an increase in premium 
Ref: DRN34180812based solely on Mr F having made this claim.  If such  evidence can be provided, it will pay 
the increased compensation recommended for this.  
As the investigator  has been unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F notified UKI that there  was a leak at his home on 3 January 2019. It took five days for it 
to send out a suitably  qualified contractor to look at it. The heating  engineer  it did send then 
apparently misdiagnosed the problem  and wrongly said the tank wasnt  repairable.  I am 
satisfied that it was repairable -Mr F has provided  evidence that his own contractor was able 
to repair  it and this doesnt seem  to have been disputed  by UKI. So the immersion  heater 
should have been repaired under the policy. And if the correct  contractor  had been  sent out 
on 4 January 2019, this would have been  completed within  a day or two of the initial  claim,  
even if theyd had to go back with the required parts.  
 
I also note that UKI confirmed that the plumber that attended on 4 January 2019 considered 
that the leak could be contained and so it wasnt necessary to isolate the immersion heater 
tank in order to prevent any water damage to the property. It also appears that the second  
contractor, that attended  on 8 January  2019,  didnt do anything to isolate the tank. 
Mr F says the water leak got significantly worse after this. When Mr F first reported the claim, 
he said there was a wet patch on the carpet and he was able to collect the water and contain 
it. And, as mentioned,  the plumber  that first attended  didnt  think the leak was significant as 
at 4 January 2019 and it would seem  the heating engineer that attended  on 8 January 2019  
didnt think so either. The leak was left for over a week,  wasnt isolated and got significantly 
worse. In my opinion, it is more likely than not that the majority of the water damage was 
done after 4 January 2019 and therefore  that a home  insurance  claim was unlikely to have 
been needed if the leak had been  dealt with properly at the outset. I therefore agree that UKI 
should reimburse the home insurance  excess,  as I do not consider Mr F would  have had to 
pay this if UKI had dealt  with this properly.
Mr F took out this policy with UKI to cover emergency situations  exactly  like the one he 
found himself in here and so that he would not have  to find his own contractors. However, he 
had two wasted  appointments with UKIs contractors,  had to find his own contractor and also 
had the trouble of a second  insurance claim and the works required to rectify the water 
damage. 
I therefore agree that some additional compensation over and above  reimbursement of the 
costs of his contractor, the light fitting and the excess is warranted. I consider the sum of 
£350 (to include the £100 already paid)  to be appropriate to compensate for the trouble 
caused to Mr F. This is in line with awards made  in similar cases. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require UK Insurance Limited to do the following: 
 reimburse Mr F his home insurance  excess plus interest at 8% simple per annum, 
from the date he paid the excess to the date of reimbursement  (it is not clear  if this 
Ref: DRN34180813was £350 or £335, so Mr F should provide evidence of the amount and date of 
payment); and
 pay Mr F an additional £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by its handling  of his claim (so a total of £350 altogether).
I understand UKI has already  paid the £273  for the costs of the repair and a replacement 
light and £100  compensation.  However,  if this has not been paid yet, it should  also pay these 
amounts. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3418081