K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  continued  charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft after hed notified it of a change in his personal circumstances.
Mr E is being assisted by his wife, Mrs E, in bringing  this complaint to our service.
background
In October  2018, Mr E wrote to Lloyds  to inform it about a change in his personal 
circumstances that meant he was unable to repay his overdraft for the foreseeable future. 
Mr E requested Lloyds  to suspend interest and charges for a period of several  years  until his 
circumstances changed again. He also asked  Lloyds  to correspond with his wife about this 
matter.
Mrs E complained to Lloyds in December 2018, when she noticed Mr Es account hadnt 
been frozen and he was still being charged a daily overdraft fee. Lloyds said it hadnt heard  
from her or Mr E since her phone call in October 2018, when it told her it needed a letter  of 
authority from Mr E. As a gesture of goodwill, Lloyds refunded  all daily fees applied to the 
account since November  2018 and suspended any fees for the next two months. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mrs E referred Mr Es complaint to our service. While the 
complaint was with this office, Lloyds started  charging the daily overdraft fees again once the 
two-month period lapsed in February  2019.  It wrote to Mr E in June 2019  when  the account 
balance went over the arranged overdraft limit. Then  in July 2019, it sent a formal demand  
notice for the outstanding balance. The debt was sold to a third party  in October  2019.  
 
Our adjudicator thought Lloyds ought  to have realised by December 2018 that Mr Es 
circumstances meant  he wasnt in a position  to repay his overdraft. She noted the bank 
statements didnt show any income  or other credits going into his account. So, Lloyds 
shouldnt have added any more interest,  fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
didnt respond  by the deadline given, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021.  I set out I was intending to uphold  Mr Es 
complaint. I considered it ought to have  been  clear to Lloyds that Mr E wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay  what  he owed within a reasonable period of time.
I found that by December  2018 at the latest,  Lloyds  was reasonably  aware Mr E was having 
difficulty with his finances, and that the charges being added  were making this worse. 
I thought in these  circumstances, Lloyds  ought to have offered assistance and treated Mr E 
with forbearance  rather than add even more  interest, fees and charges to his overdraft. 
I accepted Lloyds refunded the fees it had charged  in the previous month and suspended  
further fees for two months.  But I didnt think this went  far enough.
I also noted Mr E was hardcore borrowing.  In other  words, he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period  of time.  I explained Lloyds own literature suggested 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency  borrowing, not prolonged day-to-day  expenditure. 
I thought Mr Es overdraft  usage should have  prompted Lloyds to have realised he wasnt 
using his overdraft  as intended  and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms  
especially after he reached  out for help. 
Ref: DRN38656142As Lloyds  didnt react to Mr Es overdraft usage or his change  in circumstances and instead 
continued charging in the same way (albeit  following a brief suspension), I found that it failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably. And I thought Lloyds ought to have taken corrective  action  in 
relation to this overdraft.
I invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Mrs E didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Lloyds  said it was unfortunate the 
provisional decision was issued on the day it responded to the adjudicators view, accepting  
it in the main with the only disagreement being backdating the default date. Lloyds said the 
process it followed in applying the default  at a later date was correct as it required 
information about Mr Es full situation before taking further action. It also said it seemed 
I agreed with its view on this matter according to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Lloyds for its response to my provisional  decision. Im pleased to see its agreed to 
refund the overdraft  fees and associated  charges.  But Lloyds belief I agree with its stance  
on backdating the default date is incorrect. So, Ive carefully considered what its said about 
not backdating the default.
Lloyds has said it needed to give Mr E time to provide documentation around  his personal 
circumstances to see what  options  were available to him and to avoid a default.  
I agree  a business  should get a better  understanding of its customers circumstances to 
explore the best course of action. But in this case,  I consider Mr Es letter dated 26 October  
2018, which Lloyds  ought to have  received  by 7 December 2018 at the latest when Mrs E 
complained on his behalf, sets out his personal  circumstances adequately.  He states hes 
not in any position to repay his overdraft  for the foreseeable future and asks for all interest 
and bank charges  to be suspended [my emphasis].  In this letter, Mr E also asks Lloyds to 
contact Mrs E. 
In its final response letter  dated 11 December 2018,  Lloyds asked Mr E to contact  its 
Customer Support Unit (CSU) directly or send a letter  of authority for Mrs E to be able to 
discuss suitable support  options. The letter also explained  the CSU couldnt  freeze  fees for 
several years and instead would discuss repayment arrangement  options  to reduce the 
arranged overdraft. And if this wasnt possible, Lloyds would begin to transfer  Mr Es account 
to its Recoveries Team which would involve  amongst  other things  a default being 
applied.
But Mr E had already  said he wasnt in any position to repay his overdraft for several  years. 
Given Lloyds couldnt freeze the fees on Mr Es account for such  an extended  time as hed 
requested, it ought  fairly and reasonably to have started  taking corrective action on his 
overdraft upon  receipt  of Mr Es letter instead of asking him to contact the CSU. Lloyds didnt 
issue a formal demand notice until July 2019,  once additional overdraft charges had been 
added and Mr Es account had exceeded the agreed limit. 
In the circumstances, the assertion that Lloyds needed to give Mr E seven months  to provide 
further information about his personal circumstances, before serving him notice of intention 
Ref: DRN38656143to default, doesnt feel fair or reasonable.  I consider  Lloyds should backdate the default  to 
the point it ought to have  known there was no prospect of Mr E repaying the debt in a 
reasonable period. I consider this to be December 2018.
Lloyds has also said it doesnt  think the default date should be backdated as it would be 
required to provide the necessary notice  period  to apply  such an event.  A business is 
required to give notice  of its intention to default, this is to give the customer  an opportunity to 
bring the account back in order. But here,  Im not requiring Lloyds to register a new default 
on Mr Es credit file. Im telling it to correct the date of the existing default. Its already given 
him notice  of its intention  to default.  So, it doesnt  need  to do this again.
For the sake of completeness, had Lloyds given the 14-day notice to Mr E in December 
2018 like it did in July 2019, the required notice period would have  ended  in December 2018. 
So, I consider the default date should be backdated to December 2018.
In conclusion, having carefully considered Lloyds further points, Im still upholding Mr Es 
complaint. And Lloyds  needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mr E.
From the information Ive seen, I cant see additional charges were added  to the outstanding 
balance when the debt was sold on to a third party. Having thought  about  everything, I think  
it would  be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Es complaint for Lloyds to put 
things right by:
Buying back the debt from the third party and reworking  Mr Es current  overdraft 
balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it from December 2018 
are removed.  Once these adjustments have  been  made, Lloyds should contact 
Mrs E, as Mr Es representative, to discuss the possibility of arranging a suitable  
repayment plan for this. Lloyds  should also backdate the default date to 
December 2018.
OR
Contacting the third party to arrange  for the debt to be reduced  by the amount of 
interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Es overdraft balance from December 
2018. Lloyds should also arrange for the default  date to be backdated to 
December 2018.
With either option, if the effect of removing  all interest, fees and charges results  in there no 
longer being an outstanding balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments  and 
returned to Mr E along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from the date they 
were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains  after 
all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds  should  amend  (or arrange to amend) Mr Es 
credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he, or Mrs E as his representative, 
asks for one.
Ref: DRN38656144my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Es complaint. Lloyds Bank  PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E on behalf  of 
Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
Gagandeep Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3865614