K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr A bought the policy at a meeting in 1995 when taking a mortgage  that started in 1996.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr A for accident, sickness  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost £12.45 a month at the time and for a successful claim 
would pay £250  a month to help Mr A with his mortgage costs.
Mr A has told us of missing two weeks work for a health condition he had diagnosed around 
fifteen years before the sale, for which he was prescribed medication. He has said this issue  
is ongoing. He has also told us of a health issue he had around five years before the sale for 
which he had several doctors appointments, missed  one or two days of work as required 
and took medication.  He hasnt told us this issue was ongoing and hasnt told us of having 
had any other health issues, or of any other health-related work absences, before the sale.
Mr A has told us he didnt have savings at the time of the sale or anything  else to pay his 
mortgage with if he couldnt work, aside from what he might receive from his employer. He 
has told us he was employed at the time of the sale in the IT sector and was entitled to less 
than three  months  full sick pay. The employer referenced by Mr A in his recollections isnt 
the name given  on Halifaxs  mortgage  notes from the time. According  to those notes, Mr A 
started with a different employer in the IT sector just over six months  before the mortgage 
started and immediately before that job he was employed elsewhere for ten months.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2006. 
Mr As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr As representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr A wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr As representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr A about 
the poor value;  
Ref: DRN30640092The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr A and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr A received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN30640093The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr As case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr A sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr A, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr A suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr A and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
Ref: DRN30640094did Mr A know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr As mortgage application form, which 
he signed to apply for the mortgage, had a Mortgage Payments  Protector section for the 
PPI. This asked: Do you wish to join the Scheme?  and said this could be answered either  
Y or N. So the form presents  the PPI as something a customer could say yes or no to, 
depending on whether they wished to have the cover. 
On Mr As form,  the answer  given was Y. So it looks like Mr A said yes to the cover and, 
with what Ive said above in mind, it looks  like he did so knowing he could have said no 
instead if he wished.  Like all the other  details  on the form, such as the amount Mr A was 
borrowing, the Y was printed on the form. I think its likely the printed details reflect the 
outcome of the discussion Mr A had with Halifax before the form was printed for him to sign.
The mortgage application form also said please complete the appropriate  form if PPI was 
being taken  so to take the PPI, a separate form wouldve been completed. The use of a 
separate form wouldve helped indicate the PPI was something separate  from the mortgage.
Mr A has said Halifax told him he had to take the PPI to get the agreement. Hes also said 
he wouldnt  have taken  PPI had he not been rushed or pressured.  I give Mr As recollections 
some weight, but I bear in mind also they were set out for us around 20 years  after the sale 
 so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr A didnt recall  everything vividly.  Also,  the idea Mr A was 
led to believe he didnt  have a choice about taking the PPI, in my view isnt supported by the 
mortgage application he signed at the time - which, as Ive discussed above,  presented  the 
PPI was something he could take if he wished rather than something that he had to take.  
With this and all Ive said above in mind, and while I give Mr As recollections some  weight,  
on balance they arent enough on their own to make  me think he wasnt given a choice about 
the PPI or was pressured  and Ive nothing else to make me think  this. Taking everything 
into account, I think its more likely  Mr A knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it 
without undue pressure   although  it wouldnt be surprising if he didnt recall  all the details 
now, given how long ago this all was.
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mr A agree advice was provided  during this sale. This means  Halifax  had to 
advise Mr A with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate 
or suitable given  his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what was discussed in the meeting  exactly. The evidence I have suggests  
Halifax had some limited information  about  Mr As circumstances  from which to establish 
whether the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr A.
For example, the adviser had some  information about Mr As financial circumstances as part 
of his mortgage application  like some  details of his employment,  income,  length  of service 
and previous employments, showing  hed been  continuously employed for some time. But 
theres no specific evidence to show Halifax took steps to establish  whether Mr A wouldve 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet his needs. For example, in the available  information  there  is nothing  to 
suggest Halifax considered whether Mr A had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Ref: DRN30640095Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr A given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr A, I do think  its more likely  than not the policy was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr A had a need for the policy.  Bearing in mind  what hes told us and his length of 
service, it seems  likely  Mr As sick pay entitlement was less than 12 months  full pay and 
his redundancy  entitlement was also likely  significantly less than 12 months  pay. So he 
was likely to suffer a fall in income  if he were  unable  to work for an extended time due to 
accident, sickness or redundancy. The PPI benefit wouldve helped  Mr A in that situation,  
notwithstanding any work benefits  he mightve  received. By helping Mr A with mortgage  
related costs, the policy benefit wouldve made it less likely his home  would be put at risk 
at what could be a difficult time for him if he were unemployed or too sick to work. Also 
Mr A didnt  have any savings to fall back on.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the PPI (including that the first 30 days  of any 
disability or unemployment wasnt covered, benefits were  only paid for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim and Mr A couldnt  claim for disability unless he were unable  to do 
his own or any similar  job, and unable  to do any paid work  his experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do). But the policy still provided valuable  cover in 
Mr As circumstances given the loss of income he could  suffer were he unable to work  
and the role the policy benefit  could play in helping  him in that situation. Also, the PPI 
was to protect the mortgage payments on Mr As home so I bear in mind the potential 
consequences if Mr A were to have  become  unable to make payments on a loan 
secured against  his house.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr A. He couldnt 
have claimed for work absences arising from his ongoing health  condition but, from what  
hes told us about it, Mr A had missed  two weeks of work with it in around fifteen years. 
So it hadnt  kept him off work  for a prolonged period approaching 30 days  or more  and 
the policy exclusion for existing health  issues wouldnt have stopped him claiming if he 
suffered a long period of sickness or disability like this from other causes.  Also Mr A 
didnt have any other health  issues the policy excluded. So Im not persuaded the policy 
exclusion for pre-existing health  issues made  the PPI unsuitable for Mr A  and nothing 
about Mr As employment or occupation  wouldve  made  it difficult  for him to claim.
-Mr A met the eligibility criteria for the policy - and although  he says he was financially 
stretched at the time,  Ive seen  nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI 
wasnt affordable at the time he took it.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr A sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Ref: DRN30640096Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr A was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would help protect his mortgage related payments if 
he were unable to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr A would have taken the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
Also the mortgage  application described  the PPI as Mortgage Payments Protector and as 
insurance against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr A agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr A, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr A all the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr As representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr As representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr A about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr A has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Halifax ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr A? To what extent  did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr A. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr A suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
Ref: DRN30640097While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr A, I have found the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr A has suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained things properly, Mr A 
would have acted  differently or whether he would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mr A says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr A had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr As circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr A knew he would have  to pay something  for the 
policy, from what I have it doesnt appear  Halifax told him the exact premium at the point  he 
applied. That said, I dont  think it likely Mr A wouldve taken the PPI without some idea of the 
approximate cost. Also if when he started paying  for the PPI, the cost had been significantly 
at odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible he might  have  raised this with 
Halifax or reconsidered his decision at the time. Instead he paid for the policy  for a number 
of years.  Overall, Im not persuaded Mr A wouldve found the cost unacceptable if he had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr A would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr As expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment and help with other mortgage related  costs)  were  significantly different to what the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr A thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health issue for which  Mr A had been advised  
or treated  by a medical practitioner  in the 12 months before the policy start if the issue  
recurred within 24 months of the policy start; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
Ref: DRN30640098The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mr A wasnt 
a permanent  employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr A be unable to do his own 
or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr A pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr A from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr As circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr A was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Mr A couldnt claim for work absences related to his ongoing health  condition but, taking into 
account all hes told us about this  including  that he had missed  two weeks  of work with it in 
around 15 years, and the policy cover was for longer work  absences exceeding 30 days  
Im persuaded its unlikely  Mr A wouldve given much weight to this at the sale had he been  
told more about  the policy exclusions.  Also Ive nothing to suggest hed had recent medical 
attention for the other issue hes told us about.  Overall I dont think the policy  exclusion for 
existing health  issues wouldve  put Mr A off the PPI  and I havent anything  that persuades 
me Mr A wouldve been caught by any of the other significant  exclusions. So I think  Mr A still 
had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr A might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr A 
from taking the policy,  Mr A, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mr A had known he could only claim for disability if he were unable  to do his own or any 
similar job, and unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what to do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  but, given  his circumstances,  on balance I think  he 
would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr A any claim he made  would be limited to 12 months. This may 
have differed from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months was longer  
than its likely Mr A wouldve received full sick pay  and his redundancy  entitlement was 
also likely less than 12 months pay. In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr A would 
still have thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments would benefit  him and 
help him manage  the consequences  if he were  unable  to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, could help reduce Mr As 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and, by helping cover his mortgage payments and 
related costs, help reduce the likelihood of Mr As home  being  placed at risk.
Ref: DRN30640099Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr A would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr A would have taken the policy in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr A would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr A 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. That is because, while I accept it is possible  he wouldnt have taken the 
PPI, I am satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not he would  still have taken 
the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was 
buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mr A compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr A thinks  Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Mr A, in the way it did, was 
Ref: DRN306400910insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr A and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find Halifax  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr A in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3064009