K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Airdrie Savings Bank  mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr and Mrs B took out with a loan in 
June 1987. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Airdrie disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say that they were not given any choice  and had to take the PPI. Airdrie  says 
it gave Mr and Mrs B information about  the PPI and they chose to take it.
I cant be sure what was said in the meeting when the policy  was sold to Mr and Mrs B. So I 
have looked at the sales documentation used at the time for an indication of what  might  have  
happened.
Airdrie has provided a copy of the loan agreement. The loan agreement doesnt  appear to 
give Mr and Mrs B the option to decline the PPI by providing an alternative  statement to tick 
or mark saying they didnt  want it. It only offers  the choice of who would be covered by the 
PPI. So I think its more  likely than not that it wasnt made  clear  to Mr and Mrs B that they 
had a choice and that they took the PPI because  they thought they had to.
Furthermore, looking at this document I can see it doesnt say what  interest would be 
charged or the total amount someone would pay for the PPI if it ran for the whole loan term. 
And I think the cost numbers on the form have been  added by the business alongside a 
signature dated two days later. So I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B didnt 
have enough information about the costs at the time they signed  for and bought  the PPI.
And I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs B, because  I think  the interest and overall 
cost of the PPI was significant enough that they wouldnt have thought  it good  value  for 
money. 
So I dont  think Aidrie made it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice not to take the 
PPI and I dont think  Mr and Mrs B wouldve bought the policy if theyd known they had a 
choice and Airdrie  had given them enough  information  about it. And I think  Mr and Mrs B 
have lost out because of what  Airdrie  did wrong. 
Ref: DRN30868252putting things right
Mr and Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been and they paid more  than they shouldve  each month. So Mr and Mrs B need to get 
back the extra they have paid. 
So, Airdrie  should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what they paid each month  on 
the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs B paid each month  from when they 
paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year (15% before April 1993) .
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Airdrie can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest.  Airdrie  must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Airdrie Savings Bank should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3086825