K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained  Black Horse Limited  gave her a hire purchase  agreement in 2016  
which was never affordable. She subsequently defaulted on her agreement and her caravan 
was repossessed.
background
Miss A had a caravan  which she and her former  partner had got. The finance agreement  had 
been in his name, although Miss A had more recently  paid the monthly amount of £655.
She said she was pressurised into upgrading her caravan and taking out a new finance  
agreement in early  2016.  She bought a caravan costing nearly £65,000. Shed initially  
applied for finance  with a deposit of £1,000  for this caravan  but was turned down on 
unaffordability grounds. A hire purchase agreement for a total amount of £95,000 was taken 
out with Black Horse  over a 10-year period. Her monthly payments were  £733.77. At the 
same time, Miss A took out a personal  loan for £2,000 with a lender to help pay a deposit  of 
£3,000.  
By December 2017 Miss A was struggling with her finances. She discussed this with Black 
Horse. She was hoping  a member of her family  would help with payments but Black  Horse 
didnt think this was an acceptable long-term option.  She discussed other options with Black 
Horse, including  voluntary  termination.
Miss A made her last full monthly payment in March 2018. Black Horse sent her notices of 
their intention to default her. At the same  time Miss A brought  her complaint to the 
ombudsman service as she didnt think her agreement was ever affordable. She was also 
very concerned about being  pressured  into taking it out. She also told us the sales agent had 
applied for the personal loan on her behalf.  
Our investigator asked  Black Horse for more information about the assessment they 
undertook of Miss As ability to afford the borrowing. Around the same  time Black Horse took 
action to re-possess  her caravan. Miss A was understandably upset at the actions taken by 
the caravan park staff in emptying out the caravan and mistreating her personal effects.
After considering the evidence, our investigator  felt that Black Horse hadnt  carried  out 
sufficient checks. Their lending had been  unaffordable. She asked  Black  Horse:
 to cancel the credit agreement  leaving  Miss A with nothing  further  to pay;
 to remove all information  about  this agreement from Miss As credit  record;
 to refund the £3,000 deposit along  with 8% simple interest a year; and
 to pay back  payments Miss A made over and above  the negative  equity owed 
under the previous agreement.
Miss A accepted  this outcome. Black Horse  didnt. They felt their checks were  sufficient and 
they were able to rely on what Miss A had said about her income  and expenditure. Theyd 
also been able to review Miss As bank statements that our investigator  had relied upon. 
They believed these  showed Miss A had substantially more  income than shed stated. Our 
investigator explained why she disagreed with their interpretation.
Ref: DRN31853802Black Horse  asked an ombudsman to consider this complaint.  I completed  a provisional 
decision on 9 May 2019.  My proposed  redress was substantially the same as our 
investigators although I asked Black  Horse to pay Miss A £350  for the distress caused.
Miss A accepted  the outcome. Black Horse  didnt agree with my interpretation that Miss As 
bank statements showed this loan was unaffordable. They agreed with most  of the proposed  
redress but suggested an alternative to a full refund of Miss As monthly payments as the 
caravan had depreciated substantially in value.
I now have enough  information to complete my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at the different aspects  of this 
complaint in full to help me decide  what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
was the borrowing affordable?
Miss A believes her finance agreement was unaffordable. So firstly I have looked at the rules  
around assessing affordability. These are in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook, set out in the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook. CONC 5.2 covers these aspects.  
Its worth  making the point  that the total amount payable under this agreement was 
substantial. Practically  £95,000. Miss A had to pay nearly £735  a month over a period  of 10 
years. Id expect any business assessing credit  worthiness to take these points into 
consideration when carrying out that assessment. Any check  should be proportionate to the 
lending being  offered.  As Black Horse  will also know,  one of the requirements  is that any 
lending must  be sustainable.
So what  checks do we know Black Horse  carried out?  Actually the evidence  Black Horse  
has provided to us is extremely limited. Theyve told us they choose not to check  bank  
statements as part of their lending criteria. They rely on the information  the customer 
provides. But Ive seen nothing that shows Black Horse were  aware  of Miss As income  or 
expenditure, other than perhaps her confirmation  she felt the borrowing was affordable. I 
dont think this would be sufficient under CONC.
Black Horses own lending decision screen  showed  a credit check was carried out. Miss A 
had two other credit agreements but theres no information on how much those 
commitments were  costing Miss A. Although we know from discussions between Miss A and 
the caravan park that they were aware  her car finance cost her £250 a month.
Based on this level of information I think it would be hard to argue sufficient checks  were 
carried out.
So if Black Horse had considered Miss As detailed income and expenditure or reviewed her 
bank statements, what would they have discovered?
Like this service, Black Horse has now been able to consider Miss As bank  statements. 
Theyve suggested her monthly income was greatly  in excess  of her salary, which was 
roughly £700 a week. Im concerned at their reading  of this information.  Whilst there  were  
some months Miss A had other credits into her account and made £6,000  worth  of 
Ref: DRN31853803transactions  the figure they quote   this was a result of Miss A moving money from her 
savings accounts  into her current account or payments from friends and family. I dont 
believe this indicated she was earning this amount every month.  Or that this figure could be 
relied upon as showing  Miss A had this much disposable income.  
Our investigator showed in detail, in her view, what Miss As finances looked like. In half of 
the six months before she took out this finance agreement, her account ended  up in debit. 
This was before  she started paying an additional  £100 a month under her revised credit 
agreement (and thats apart from considering her personal loan which  committed  her to 
paying nearly £50 a month).
Miss A may well have  had an overdraft facility of £1,000. But this in itself was a borrowing 
facility. It seems that Miss A would have  to rely on this to repay her borrowing with Black  
Horse. Black  Horse would know this is inappropriate.
Within three  months  of taking out this hire purchase  agreement, Miss A started earning a 
permanent salary. This meant she was paid monthly, rather than on a weekly basis. She 
was also earning  about 25% less. On an income of £2,150, Miss As financial commitment to 
Black Horse  amounted to about a third of her income. This would be a cause for alarm. And 
demonstrates the lending  was never  going to be sustainable.
I have considered the other points Black  Horse raised when they disputed our investigators 
view. Just because  someone makes  payments  under a credit  agreement for more  than a 
year doesnt  mean the initial lending was affordable. In Miss As case  I think  this means  she 
was trying all she could  to make her payments using her savings,  until by the end she had 
next to nothing left.
Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Black Horse didnt carry out sufficient 
checks and Miss As borrowing was unaffordable.
action taken to repossess  the caravan
Ive also looked  at the action Black Horse took to repossess Miss As caravan. I dont agree 
they acted fairly.  
At this stage Black Horse were aware Miss A couldnt afford to make  her monthly 
repayments. And in the end Miss A was going  to end up having  to come out of the credit 
agreement and hand back the caravan. So I can see why Black Horse started sending  
Miss A intention of their notice to default  her. Im also aware that around this time Miss A 
knew this could end up in Black Horse  re-possessing  the caravan. But we always  consider 
repossession to be the last resort.
But Miss A had brought her complaint  to us in April 2018. Black Horse sent us their business 
file in May 2018.  Our investigator contacted Black Horse on 27 July 2018.  Theyd  confirmed 
they werent looking to re-possess  at this time. We confirmed  this to Miss As representative 
although stressed that a payment arrangement  would need to be agreed  with Black Horse.  
So it came as some surprise to Miss A when she found out the locks had been changed on 
the caravan and her personal  effects removed on 4 August 2018.
Not only that but Miss A was told Black Horse didnt think  she had an active  complaint with 
us. In fact their own contact notes  state  No complaint with FOS. This is obviously incorrect.  
Ref: DRN31853804Theyd discussed the case with our investigator a week earlier and could have taken steps 
then to stop this.
The timescale for repossession  a letter dated  1 August wasnt received by Miss A until 
7 August  gave  Miss A no time to remove  her personal effects safely  and securely. So 
overall I dont think this was fair and added to the stress and upset Miss A was feeling at the 
time. The repossession was carried out by staff at the caravan park.  But as this was under 
the instruction  of Black Horse, I can still hold Black Horse responsible for what happened.
other matters raised by Miss A
Ive also considered the other issues which Miss A complained about.  
She felt she was pressurised into the purchase  of this new caravan in 2016. Shes shared 
texts between the caravan park and herself.  It certainly seems  there  were  conversations 
about her getting  a new caravan and taking out a new agreement  for a whole month before 
this happened. I understand that member of staff no longer works at the park.  I think  theres  
a chance that she may well have been  encouraged to take out an agreement which she was 
never going to be able to afford. But I think Miss As concerns go further  than this. She 
believes the caravan  parks customer service leaves a lot to be desired. As our investigator 
has explained I cant hold Black Horse responsible for this aspect.   
Miss A ended up taking  out a personal loan to raise  a higher amount for a deposit towards 
her new caravan. Theres no evidence she didnt know this was what  was happening 
although I accept  she may have  been  encouraged to do so. The loan was credited to her 
own current account. She was then able to make the payments to the caravan park for the 
deposit of £3,000. If Miss A doesnt  believe she applied for and agreed this loan, she can 
complain to the business who she took the loan out with.
putting things  right
The redress  Im proposing reflects Ive decided this hire purchase agreement was 
unaffordable. Our normal approach is to act as if the agreement  was never entered into: to 
have the agreement cancelled, ensure the customer has nothing  left to pay but allow  a 
deduction for any usage made of the goods. But the facts are slightly different in this case  so 
Im amending this here. Ill explain why.
When Miss A took this agreement out, she paid off the money owed on a previous credit 
agreement. Ive not seen  this agreement so I cant be sure whose name it was in. Black  
Horse has subsequently confirmed this was in her partners name. But they may have come  
to an arrangement that as she was continuing  to use the caravan  which was in joint names 
 she took over responsibility for making the payments. On that basis I consider  it fair she 
repays the amount owed. This amount was £1,397.94. So I believe Black Horse is still 
entitled to claim this money  back.
Miss A had a caravan  before she took out this model.  It was an older caravan with a lower 
specification. It would  have cost her less in site fees and other  charges. I cant  know exactly  
what the difference was or what use Miss A ever made of her new caravan. 
Black Horse  has said they sold the caravan  at a substantially depreciated price. And I have 
now taken this into consideration  when  reviewing the redress  along  with their alternative 
Ref: DRN31853805proposal. But this hasnt made me change my mind about what is fair. I say this because  I 
dont believe  Miss A was ever in a position  to take out this caravan in the first place.
After considering the complexities of this and the fact Miss A no longer has even the use of 
her previous  caravan, Ive decided Black  Horse cant  recoup  any usage charges from 
Miss A. At the same time Im not refunding any site fees or charges that Miss A may have 
paid to the caravan park during this time.
Black Horse  will also need to refund Miss As deposit to her.
Ive also considered the issues around the repossession. Theres no doubt  this had quite an 
impact on Miss A. Whilst this may have ultimately been what she expected, this all 
happened quite  suddenly when she was clarifying her income and expenditure and hoping 
to come to some  payment arrangement with Black Horse. Im going to ask Black Horse  to 
pay her £350 for the distress this caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to uphold Miss As complaint against  Black 
Horse Limited. To put things right, Im instructing  them to:
 cancel the credit agreement leaving Miss A with nothing further to pay;
 remove all information about this agreement from Miss As credit record;
 refund her £3,000 deposit  along  with 8% simple interest  a year payable from 
the date the deposit  was paid until the date of settlement; 
 pay back payments Miss A made  over and above £1,397.94 (the negative 
equity owed  under the previous agreement); 
 add 8% simple interest  a year to those  payments from the date they were 
made until the date of settlement;  and
 pay Miss A £350 for the distress caused  in their repossession  actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3185380