K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that a new car he acquired with the assistance of finance from 
FCE Bank Plc (FCE) is not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr G entered in to an agreement with FCE Bank  to finance the purchase of a new car on 30 
April 2018 for £19,990. On 30 September 2018 the car displayed a fault message and the 
engine slowed. Mr G called the breakdown service but the fault did not recur. The same fault 
presented on 11 October. Mr G took the car to the supplying dealership on 15 October but 
the fault could not be found. On 23 October  Mr G left the car with the supplying  dealership  
for repair. Mr G collected the car on 24 October and the same fault presented  on the drive 
home so Mr G returned the car for repair. On 1 November Mr G collected the car after a 
further repair and the fault occurred again on the drive home. On 6 November Mr G returned  
the car for another repair. On 3 December  Mr G was told by the supplying  dealership  that it 
may have  identified the fault but it was not in a position to repair the car. In January 2019 it 
was agreed between Mr G and the supplying dealership that an alternative car would be 
sourced.
A suitable alternative like for like replacement could not be found and on 8 February  2019  Mr 
G complained to Ford Credit. Ford Credit failed to substantively reply to that complaint  and 
Mr G brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Gs complaint and thought it should be upheld.  He thought 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality  and Mr G was entitled to reject  the car and have 
the return of all money paid under the agreement.  A copy of the adjudicators  view was sent 
to FCE on 20 September  2019. FCE didnt reply and our adjudicator  made a number of 
phone calls chasing a response.  On 4 November our adjudicator  was told over the telephone 
that his findings were  agreed and would  be actioned following receipt  of a standard  
settlement form. FCE failed to honour  that agreement  and in a letter dated 26 November 
2019 FCE asked  for the case to be re-opened on the basis  that the car was repaired and 
ready for collection and that there was no evidence that the faults were present at the point 
of sale.
The adjudicator has attempted to contact FCE further about this letter  but it has failed to 
reply and so the matter  has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman to decide. This is the final 
stage in our process.
      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
At the outset, I would like to apologise to Mr G for the time taken for his complaint  to reach 
me. I can see that this complaint has had a significant effect on Mr G and he has been 
without the car, that he has been paying for, since November 2018.
Mr G has referred  to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and his rejection of the car which 
was accepted by the supplying dealership. FCE says that the car should not be rejected 
because it has been repaired, the faults were raised approximately 6 months  after the 
Ref: DRN34292922contract and there is no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of sale and FCE is not 
responsible for the actions of the dealership.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the car.
 
I note that the fault first presented after 5 months and after Mr G had travelled around 3,000  
miles. The responsibility is on FCE as the supplier of the car to show that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when Mr G bought it. I would not expect a brand new car to develop a 
fault of this nature which prevented Mr G driving it after such  a short time. I consider that the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale. 
Mr G returned the car on 2 occasions for repairs to be carried  out only to have the fault recur 
as soon as he picked up the car. The supplying dealership informed Mr G that the car could 
not be repaired in December 2018 and an alternative was agreed.  By this point the car had 
been in for repair  for a number of weeks. I consider that there was more than one attempt to 
repair the car that was unsuccessful and it was not reasonable for any further  attempts at 
repair and so Mr G was entitled to reject  the car. I do not agree with FCE on the basis  of the 
evidence I have seen  that the car has been  satisfactorily repaired.  It appears that the repair 
was not carried  out until March/April 2019  which is a significant period of time after the car 
had been presented for repair and after Mr G had said he wanted  to reject the car. 
I think it was reasonable  of Mr G to allow the dealership to source a like for like replacement 
but this has not been possible. Mr G was asked to make an additional financial contribution  
and I agree with the adjudicator that it was reasonable of him to refuse  to do so. In these 
circumstances I consider that Mr G is entitled  to reject the car and unwind the agreement.
I agree  with the adjudicator that Mr G has provided ample time for the car to be repaired or 
replaced and FCE has failed to ensure this was done. Although a courtesy car was provided 
for a short period of time Mr G has been paying  for a car that he has had no access  to and 
this has caused  considerable upset and inconvenience.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right FCE Bank Plc should do 
the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
Refund all monthly payments from June 2019  to reflect the period that Mr G has 
been without a car;
Refund 10% of monthly payments made  from November 2018 to June 2019 to reflect  
the impaired usage  whilst Mr G had use of the courtesy car;
Refund the deposit paid by Mr G together with 8% simple  interest  from the date paid 
to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Gs credit file; and
Pay Mr G £250 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Ref: DRN34292923Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3429292