K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about  a mortgage endowment policy  arranged in 1991. They 
have said they were told the policy  guaranteed  to pay off their mortgage at maturity. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is responsible  for the sale of the policy and I will refer to it 
throughout, even  where actions were taken  by its predecessors.
background
The endowment policy was arranged in 1991 to run alongside Mr and Mrs Ts interest-only 
mortgage. It had a target amount of £29,500  and a term of 25 years.  The policy  was a 
traditional with-profits policy,  which had a basic sum assured of £9,588, to which bonuses 
were added. Mr and Mrs T surrendered the policy  in January 2009.
The documentation  from the time of the sale and Mr and Mrs Ts recollections  tell us that at 
Mr T was 25 years  old, employed as an assistant  manager in the hospitality industry and 
earning at least £9,048  a year. Mrs T was also 25 years old and she was employed as an 
office assistance on £6,180 a year. They had just married and had no dependents. They had 
no savings or investments  and were buying their first property. Mr and Mrs T also had a car 
loan costing £219 per month, which had just under two years  of payments left.
Aviva declined to consider  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint due to letters it sent them  in the 2000s.  
These letters had explained there was a high risk of the policy failing to reach its target  value 
and Mr and Mrs T were  given a deadline to complain in one of those letters. As such,  Aviva  
considered the complaint had been  made  too late.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept Avivas position  and referred the complaint to this service.  They  
explained they hadnt received any of the letters Aviva had relied on to time-bar the 
complaint. This was because they hadnt been  living at the addresses they were sent to at 
the relevant times. Our investigator established this was the case  and, having discussed  the 
situation with Aviva, it accepted the complaint was one that should be considered further.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld  as 
she wasnt persuaded the policy  was inappropriate for them  at the time it was arranged. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept the investigators  findings and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. As such, it has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T were  sold a with-profits  low cost endowment. Such  policies guaranteed  to pay 
out a maturity value of the basic sum assured  plus any bonuses  that were  added during the 
term of the policy. It was hoped (and calculated into the premium) that the amount of 
bonuses added would equate to the difference between the basic sum assured and the 
target value,  but this wasnt guaranteed. 
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, I have to be persuaded the financial business 
did something wrong. In this case that means I must  be satisfied the policy wasnt  suitable  
Ref: DRN33631732for Mr and Mrs Ts needs  and circumstances  at the time.  That it might not have been isnt 
sufficient for me to be able to uphold this complaint.
In 1991, the policy Mr and Mrs T arranged  would have been considered to represent  little 
risk. Whilst  changes  to the financial markets  over the following decade or so after the sale 
may have  changed  that perception, I must  work from the basis  of what  the general  
understanding of the policy was at the time.  Such policies were  considered  suitable  for most 
people at the time. Only for those who were positively risk averse  would Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy have been  deemed unsuitable.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time since the sale of the policy and its surrender, there 
is limited information about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances. However,  what we do know  is 
that the mortgage, when compared to their income,  was within  most lenders normal criteria, 
which would have been based on income multiples. They  had an additional loan over the 
short term that would have taken up a noticeable  part of their disposable income  after the 
mortgage was paid, so the lower outgoings associated with an endowment-backed mortgage 
may well have appealed at that point. The policy was also due to mature long before 
Mr and Mrs T were  due to retire, so if there  were a shortfall, they would have had plenty of 
time to deal with it before  their income dropped in retirement.
There is nothing in Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances that would indicate they couldnt have 
taken the small amount  of risk the policy was considered to represent  had they wanted  to. I 
can never know for certain  whether Mr and Mrs T would  have  accepted the low level of risk, 
which was never expected to come to fruition, in exchange for lower  monthly  costs  and the 
potential of a surplus  sum after the mortgage  was paid off. The evidence indicates they were  
in a position to accept  the risk associated  with the policy as it was perceived at the time. As I 
said above, in order to uphold this complaint I must be satisfied  Aviva  got something wrong.  
The evidence here isnt sufficient to persuade me that it did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my 
decision before  3 October 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3363173