K821x#15complaint
Ms M complained about the amount  of compensation  Financial Insurance Company Limited 
(FICL) offered to settle her complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with a store  card.
background
Ms M took out a store card in 1999 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. FICL wasnt 
responsible for the sale of the card but has accepted  liability for the account as the 
underwriter of the insurance policy. 
FICL agreed  to uphold  the complaint and offered Ms M compensation to settle the complaint. 
In its offer letter FICL explained  how it was using  data it said it had to estimate the PPI costs 
as it didnt have  full records. It said If Ms M had any statements it would  use these in its 
calculation. Ms M did send in some  statements for the account but FICL replied saying it 
couldnt carry out a manual calculation using these  statements.   
Ms M wasnt happy with the amount of compensation offered and FICLs response.  She also 
said she had been inconvenienced and incurred  costs in providing  the statements. So she 
brought her complaint  to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2018, a copy of which is attached 
to and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I set out in more detail  the background to this complaint and the 
reasons why I thought the way FICL  had calculated the offer without the statements was fair. 
But I thought it had made a slight error  in working out the 8% simple compensatory  interest. 
And I explained why I thought in the circumstances of this case  FICL should pay £30.00  to 
Ms M to ensure she wasnt out of pocket for any compensatory  interest and also to cover 
any trouble and upset  she had been caused.  
Ms M has responded saying she accepts my provisional decision.  FICL has not made any 
response at all.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in detail  in my provisional decision why I thought the approach  taken by FICL  to 
work out the costs of the PPI was reasonable. And I also explained why I thought the 
calculation of the compensatory interest  due to Ms M may have been slightly  inaccurate  due 
to the wrong end date being used  for the calculation. However the difference  using the 
correct date would only have been around £2.00/£3.00.  
So I explained I was intending to direct  FICL  to pay an additional £30.00  to Ms M to cover 
any small amount of difference in the compensatory interest. And to also cover any trouble 
and upset caused by the poor information given to Ms M by FICL.
Ref: DRN36520512As neither party has provided any further information or disagreed, I can see no reason to 
change my provisional findings.  I am therefore directing FICL to pay a further  £30.00 to 
Ms M for the trouble and upset caused  and to ensure she is not out of pocket.
my final decision
My final decision is that Financial Insurance Company Limited  should pay to Ms M £41.63 
(after tax) to refund the costs of the PPI and pay some compensatory  interest.  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  also pay an additional amount of £30.00. This 
is to ensure Ms M isnt out of pocket for any costs and for any trouble and upset she has 
been put to in bringing her complaint as a result of the poor information  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited  gave  to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms Ms complaint is about how Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  has calculated the 
compensation to settle her complaint about a mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
connected with a store card.
Ref: DRN36520513background
Ms M opened a store  card account in April 1999 and at the same time took out a PPI policy.  In 2018 
Ms M complained the PPI had been mis-sold.  FICL wasnt responsible for the sale of the card but has 
accepted liability for the account as the underwriter  of the insurance  policy. FICL agreed  to uphold the 
complaint and offered Ms M £40.43 (after tax) in compensation to settle the complaint about  card 
ending 3797.
In its offer letter FICL indicated that it had full records of the account  after 2005 but that it had only 
limited data prior to this date. It also said it did have the total amounts charged for the PPI and would  
average this total over the time the account ran until the actual  full data records started. It went on to 
say if Ms M had any evidence  showing account transactions before August 2005 it would  consider 
doing a revised calculation. 
Ms M did send in some  statements for the account between  March 2003 and June 2006.  But FICL 
replied saying  it was unable to perform a manual calculation using these statements.   
Ms M wasnt  happy with FICLs  response as she said she had been inconvenienced and incurred 
costs in providing the statements and she wasnt sure that the offer was correct as FICL  hadnt use 
the actual data from the statements.  So she brought her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said there  was no clear reason given as to why FICL hadnt used the statement data 
and recalculated the offer.  So it should make a new calculation using the statement data and upheld 
the complaint on that basis.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Since the adjudicator  recommended FICL recalculate the compensation  due, it has in December  2018 
provided an update to its original calculation.  This increases slightly the amount of compensatory 
interest and results in the amount of compensation due as at December 2018 being  £41.63. However 
FICL has not provided a calculation using the actual data from the statements, as recommended  by 
out adjudicator.  
Having looked at what FICL  has worked  out as the compensation  due and also considered the 
statement data, I think there would be very little difference in the amount of compensation due to Ms 
M if FICL used the eight  statements Ms M provided and then estimated the costs for the months when  
there was no actual data. I shall explain  why I have  reached this conclusion..
FICL has now provided a copy  of its full calculation  and copies of its records. These records show the 
account and PPI ran from April 1999 and the last date a payment  was made to the account was in 
October 2004, when the balance was cleared.  The records also show that the total ever paid in 
premiums on the account was £18.17, the total spent on the account  was £705.37 and the total 
interest paid for all spending  was £22.73. 
In its calculation FICL averaged the total premiums  ever paid for the PPI over the whole period the 
account was open and also averaged out the spending on the card and interest charged in the same 
way. Thus it used estimated amounts for each month to reach the actual overall  account totals to be 
refunded.
The way the premiums  have  been estimated over the life of the account  by FICL doesnt match the 
amounts as shown on the statements provided by Ms M. There  are 8 statements  from between 29 
March 2003 to 29 June  2004. If those  statement values  are used in the calculation  then it may more 
accurately reflect how the card was used in those months and this was why our adjudicator said a 
new calculation should be done. But it would  make no difference to the costs of the PPI as the 
Ref: DRN36520514premiums amount total is known. It may affect  slightly  the compound interest, but as this would be to 
have a higher balance  in the last two years or so, I dont think this would be detrimental  to Ms M. 
FICL are refunding  £4.70 as interest paid on the premiums.  The total interest paid on the account 
ever is known to be £22.68. So FICL are refunding  around 20% of the total interest ever paid in the 
method it has applied using  its standard calculator with the data is has. This is perhaps a little more  
than I would  have anticipated with the PPI total cost only being around 2.5% of the total ever spent on 
the account.
By inserting  the actual statement values into the calculation would only mean  that the other estimated 
amounts for the unknown periods would be adjusted, as the overall spend,  interest and PPI premium  
totals would still remain the same. 
Overall I think  how FICL  has worked  out the costs of the PPI using its standard calculator to spread 
the total amounts  paid,  gives  a fair amount of refund for the PPI as it is still based on the totals 
actually paid.  Using the actual data from the statements  would make no difference to the overall  
amounts paid for the PPI, it just allocates the totals in a different  way.
However I dont think FICL has worked out as accurately as it could  the 8% simple interest on the 
account. The records from FICL show the last statement  on the account was issued  in October 2004 
and at this date the balance was cleared and there was no further spend on the card.  Therefore from 
this date Ms M was out of pocket for the full costs of the PPI.
The dates used by FICL in its calculation show the account remained open with a balance  until July 
2005. This is because FICLs full records start from August 2005 and it knows the PPI wasnt paid and 
there was no balance on the account from this date. So it has made a standard assumption that the 
balance was cleared the month before its records start.  This means that the assumptions show the 
balance wasnt cleared and so the PPI wasnt fully repaid until shortly before this in May 2005.
In fact it is known the last statement was issued in October 2004 and therefore  the PPI was all paid by 
Ms M at this date. Therefore Ms M was out of pocket from earlier than FICL  has indicated in its 
calculation. I have estimated  this would  only make a difference of some £2.00/£3.00 in the amount of 
compensatory interest. 
Taking all the information and factors into account, I am intending to direct FICL  to pay the £41.63 
compensation it has calculated  to refund  the costs  of the PPI and pay some compensatory  interest.  
But I am intending  to make  an award  for the trouble and upset  Ms M has been put to for the way FICL  
has dealt with this complaint and in assessing  an amount I have taken into account  the small amount 
that may have  been  lost in compensatory interest because  FICL  hasnt used the actual date when the 
balance was cleared.
FICL told Ms M in its offer letter that if she had any data from before 2005,  and this was provided, it 
would use this to give a more accurate calculation of the compensation. Ms M has told us she went  to 
some expense and trouble to find, copy and send the statements for the account  to FICL  and she was 
understandably upset that these statements were not actually used in the calculation. She also didnt 
see how the calculation  could be accurate if not using  the actual data. And I dont think FICL  gave 
proper information to Ms M to explain why the statements would make little difference  to the 
calculation.
So I am intending  to direct FICL to pay an additional £30.00 to Ms M to ensure  Ms M is not out of 
pocket for any of the costs  of the PPI and compensatory interest  and also to compensate her for the 
trouble and upset she has been put to with the way FICL has dealt with this complaint.  
Ref: DRN36520515my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I am intending to direct that Financial Insurance  Company  
Limited pay to Ms M £41.63 (after tax) to refund the costs of the PPI and pay some compensatory  
interest. 
I am also intending to tell Financial Insurance  Company  Limited to pay an additional £30.00.  This is to 
ensure Ms M isnt out of pocket for any costs and for the trouble and upset caused to Ms M as a result 
of the poor information provided. 
This is subject to any further information or evidence that either  party  provides by the date given at 
the start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3652051