K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs D have said they:
believed that taking  out PPI was mandatory  and granting of the mortgage was 
conditional on agreeing to take out PPI. 
And that:
whilst the way in which the information was set out may have suggested  that there 
was a choice as to whether taking out the policy was optional, our recollections  are 
that this choice was not specifically presented or explained to us.
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that Mr and Mrs D were  led to believe there  
was no choice, unless  there was reasonable supporting evidence.  Where someone has said 
another person or organisation  has done  something  wrong, fairness requires that the person  
making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be 
fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a 
long time ago. I realise this is difficult for Mr and Mrs D, so many  years later.  
I also have to take into account  that, because this was about 18 years ago, I cant  be sure 
that someone would  remember  every  detail of what happened with full accuracy.  
And also there is evidence on the application  form that Mr and Mrs D asked to have details 
of the PPI options; and they separately  filled in a PPI application form which presented the 
PPI as a choice. Also the PPI only covered Mrs D, which at least suggests that there was a 
discussion about how insurance products could be tailored to their individual needs  which 
again suggests it was presented as a choice. 
Ref: DRN36080852So my conclusion is that the evidence, although  not conclusive, is in favour of saying the PPI 
was presented as a choice. And, overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI 
was sold without Mr and Mrs Ds genuine  agreement. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D as being  particularly suited  to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr and Mrs D to decide whether it was 
suitable. But even  if it had made  a recommendation, I think  it would probably have 
been an appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable  
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mrs D (the person covered) received any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  
to any redundancy  pay. And it would  have put off the time when Mr and Mrs D would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other  living costs.  This all would have put Mr and Mrs D in a more  
secure position, if theyd eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the 
PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  
But I dont anyway  think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs D took the PPI. I say this because the potential  benefits 
were greater  than Mrs Ds sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly 
high.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd 
be paying for it monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without  further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3608085