K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains  that a car he acquired,  via a hire purchase  agreement  with Toyota  
Financial  Services  (UK)  Plc, wasn't  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In October  2018  Mr B acquired  a used  car via a four-  year hire purchase  agreement  
with Toyota  Financial.  The car was three  years  old and had a mileage  of around  
28,000.  Mr B also took out a warranty  for the car at the same  time.
Mr B says  he only had the car a few days  when  the engine  management  light ("EML")  
illuminated.  There  had been  a mistake  made  by the dealership  about  the warranty  taken  
out by Mr B and so, instead  of using  the recovery  service  provided  by the warranty,  Mr B 
used  another  one. The recovery  service  did a temporary  repair  and told Mr B to have  the 
car inspected.
In November  2018  Mr B took the car into a local  partner  garage  to have  the car 
investigated  under  the warranty.  The garage  found  an issue  with the Pre-Cat  CO2  sensor  
which  was replaced,  and it also replaced  the lower  engine  mount.  Mr B had to pay £99 for 
the diagnostics  carried  out on the car, but the repairs  were  done  under  the warranty.  After  
these  repairs  were  carried  out Mr B took the car back.
The EML  illuminated  again  and so the car was taken  back  to the partner  garage  for 
another  inspection  in December  2018.  This inspection  revealed  a number  of issues  with 
the car namely;  passenger  seat detection  mat faulty;  inner-side  light bulb out; engine  
mount  split;  radiator  blind  fault;  battery  required  replacing;  warning  sounding  for rear seat 
not locking;  release  boot switch  not working;  no light on window  switch;  navigation  map 
taking  time to load and cigarette  socket  not working.  As parts  were  required  the car was 
booked  in for repairs  in February  2019.  Mr B had to pay £45 towards  the diagnostics.  
In February  2019  the items  raised  in the December  inspection  were  all fixed  under  the 
warranty,  except  the warning  for the rear seat being  unlocked  continued  to be activated.  
Mr B complained  to Toyota  Financial  and said he wanted  to the reject  the car. It asked  Mr 
B to take the car back  to the local  partner  garage.  The car was booked  back  in for April 
2019.
Mr B says  that although  the car went  back  to the partner  garage  in April 2019  the warning  
alarm  for the rear seat being  unlocked  continued  to be activated  and he complained  again  
to Toyota  Financial.  The car went  back  to the garage  in July 2019  when  a fault with the 
wiring  was found  and the car was repaired.
Toyota  Financial  didn't  uphold  Mr B's complaint.  It said although  there  had been  a number  
of issues  had been  found  with the car these  had all been  repaired  with the agreement  of 
Mr B under  the warranty.
Mr B was unhappy  at Toyota  Financial's  decision  and complained  to this service.  Our 
adjudicator  recommended  that Toyota  Financial  pay Mr B £200  compensation  for the 
unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience  caused  by dealing  with the faulty  car. However,  
our adjudicator  said she didn't  think  Mr B was entitled  to reject  the car as the faults  related  
mainly  to issues  that would  be considered  wear  and tear, and so were  not significant  faults.  
She said all the faults  had now been  repaired.
Ref: DRN30083902Our adjudicator  said that the £144  paid by Mr B for having  the car's  fault diagnosis  arose  
because  he had not taken  the car back  to the dealer  that provided  the car. Had he done  so 
then these  costs  wouldn't  have  been  incurred.
Mr B disagreed  with our adjudicator's  views.  He said it had taken  multiple  visits  to repair  
the rear seat unlocked  alarm  and that he hadn't  agreed  to the final repair  carried  out in July 
2019.  He said he went  to the partner  garage  on the advice  of the dealership  and the 
warranty  company  due to the distance  between  his home  and the selling  dealer.  The 
partner  garage  was able to undertake  the repairs  under  the warranty,  but he had to pay for 
the diagnostics.
Toyota  Financial  said it agreed  with our adjudicator's  findings.
As the parties  were  unable  to agree  the complaint  was passed  to me. I issued  a provisional  
decision  along  the following  lines.
Looking  at this complaint  I needed  to have  regard  to the relevant  law and regulations,  but I 
was not bound  by them  when  I considered  what  was fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase  agreement  entered  into by Mr B was a regulated  consumer  credit  
agreement  this service  was able to consider  complaints  relating  to it. Toyota  Financial  was 
also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type of agreement,  and responsible  for a 
complaint  about  their quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  theres  an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the quality  of 
the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person  would  
consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  price  and all other  
relevant  circumstances.  
The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  and 
condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and finish,  freedom  
from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the quality  of the goods.  So, 
things  like mileage  and age of the car will be relevant  when  considering  its satisfactory  
quality.
Here,  the car wasn't  new as it was three  years  old. A reasonable  person  would  expect  
a car of this age and mileage  to have  some  wear  and tear unlike  a brand-new  car. This 
would  mean  issues  with maintenance  and repair  could  arise.  Looking  at the faults  that 
were  identified  I agreed  with our adjudicator's  view that they were  mainly  issues  of 
wear  and tear, such  as the battery  and bulbs  needing  to be replaced.  I didn't  think  I 
could  reasonably  say the faults  were  significant  ones.
I'd seen  that all the issues,  save  the rear seat unlock  alarm,  were  repaired  in April 2019.  I 
appreciated  Mr B's frustration  that the car had been  to the garage  prior to that, but I'd 
also seen  there  was some  delay  in repairing  the issues  as parts  being  required.  But I 
was unclear  why the faulty  wiring  with the rear seat wasn't  identified  until July 2019;  no 
repair  seemed  to have  been  carried  out on that fault when  the car was at the garage  in 
April.
I appreciated  Mr B said that while  he agreed  to the other  repairs,  he hadn't  agreed  to the 
July 2019  repair  as he thought  the car was going  in for diagnostics,  but it appeared  that 
Ref: DRN30083903this was a straight  forward  fix. I could  also appreciate  that having  the alarm  sounding  
would  have  been  irritating,  but I didn't  have  any evidence  the car was actually  unsafe  to 
use. Looking  at the evidence,  and that the car was now repaired,  I didn't  think  it would  be 
reasonable  or proportionate  to say that Mr B could  now reject  the car.
I was unclear  why Toyota  Financial  said that the diagnostic  costs  paid for by Mr B 
wouldn't  have  arisen  if he'd taken  the car back  to the selling  dealership  for the car to be 
repaired  under  the warranty.  In its final response  letter  to Mr B, Toyota  Financial  had 
recognised  that the car had been  repaired  under  the warranty  at a partner  garage  more  
local  to Mr B. Mr B had also used  that particular  garage  having  consulted  with the selling  
dealer  and the warranty  company.  So, I thought  it would  be fair for Toyota  Financial  to 
reimburse  Mr B the £144  he spent  having  the faults  with the car diagnosed  as his 
reasons  for not going  back  to the selling  dealer  were  fair and reasonable.
I also thought  that compensation  of £250  would  be fair for the distress  and 
inconvenience  caused  to Mr B having  to deal with the faulty  car and, in particular,  this 
recognised  the impact  of having  to use the car for so long with the rear seat unlocked  
alarm  being  activated.  As set out above,  I was unclear  why this fault hadnt  been  fixed  
until July 2019.
So, for the reasons  given  above,  I intended  to uphold  Mr B's complaint  though  I didn't  
agree  it would  be fair for Mr B to now reject  the car.
Toyota Financial  says it agrees with my provisional  decision.  Mr B says he still wishes to reject 
the car as he thinks  it was faulty from the point of sale. He says it took the dealership several 
months to fix the problems and due to the seatbelt alarm he didnt use that particular seat. He 
says he was concerned if there was an accident the seatbelt wouldnt  work correctly as thats 
what the warning  sign was saying.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be of disappointment  to Mr B but havent changed my view about his 
rejecting the car. This is because I appreciate the car was faulty but many of the issues  were 
ones of wear and tear which it was reasonable to have expected would arise with a car of 
this age and mileage. I also understand that as some of the repairs required new parts that 
more than one visit to the garage was required. It was the issue with the seatbelt alarm that 
took the longest to fix and Ive seen  this was caused by a wiring fault.
I appreciate the seatbelt alarm sounding  would have caused  concern for Mr B and I can 
understand why he avoided  using  that seat.  But I havent seen any evidence that the car 
was unsafe to use, and it appears to have been  a relatively simple  fix in the end although I 
accept it took months to resolve.
However, just because a car has faults  doesnt  always mean that it is reasonable  to reject it. 
Looking at the evidence of the type of repairs required  and the nature of the faults I still dont 
think it would  be fair or proportionate for Mr B to now reject  the car. But I do think  an award  
of compensation  of £250 is fair and reasonable in these circumstances as that reflects not 
only the distress and inconvenience caused by having to deal with this fault but also the 
impact it had on Mr Bs use of the car in that time.
Ref: DRN30083904So, for the reasons given above  Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I am asking  Toyota Finance 
to reimburse Mr B the £144 he spent on diagnostics  for the car together with interest at the 
rate of 8% from the date of payment  until the date of settlement together with £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the faulty car.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im asking Toyota  Financial Services (UK) Plc to do the 
following:
Reimburse Mr B the £144  he spent on diagnostics for the car together  with interest at 
the yearly rate of 8% from date of payment until date of settlement
Pay Mr B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having  to deal 
with the faulty  car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3008390