K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc failed to update her address. She thinks  paperwork 
it sent to her old address resulted in her identity  being stolen. 
 
background
Miss M moved  house in 2016 so she phoned Santander to notify her change  of address. 
This isnt her main  account and she didnt notice  she wasnt  receiving statements for some 
time. At the start of 2017  she wanted  to apply for a mortgage so she checked her credit  file. 
She found a third party had been  applying for in her name - and realised she hadnt  had a 
statement from Santander for some time. 
When Miss M got in touch  with Santander  she discovered it hadnt changed of address  so 
statements were still being  sent to her old address. Miss M thinks  this probably enabled the 
fraudster to steal her identity. She had to put off buying a house until her credit history was 
sorted out - and she has changed jobs now so shes no longer eligible  for the house  
purchase she wanted. Miss M is unhappy  with the way Santander responded when she 
raised her concerns. And she thinks it should pay about £900 compensation for the trouble 
and upset she has experienced. 
Santander says it has no record  of a phone call from Miss M in 2016 about her change of 
address - but it only keeps such records for a limited time. It acknowledges Miss M asked for 
her phone number  to be updated  in her local branch around the relevant time - and accepts  
she probably asked  for her address to be changed as well. Santander apologised and paid 
Miss M £100 compensation in August  2016  for any upset and inconvenience caused  by this 
poor service.  
 
Our investigator is not persuaded there  is enough  evidence to show  that fraudulent  
applications were  made  in Miss Ms name as a result of a mistake  made  by Santander. She 
says fraudsters usually  need more than just information from bank statements to steal 
someones identity  and open  fraudulent accounts. She has sympathy for the situation Miss 
M found  herself  in. But shes not satisfied that Miss M suffered a financial loss as result  of 
Santanders actions.  And she doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss M was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I have 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
I am very sorry  to hear that Miss M had her identity stolen. I have no doubt that she has had 
a very worrying time and experienced a good deal of inconvenience, upset and distress as a 
result of what happened. 
Ref: DRN30339182Santander accepts  it didnt act on Miss Ms instructions to change  her address. I can see 
why Miss M thinks that Santander sending statements  to her old address might have caused 
her identity to be stolen. And I understand she feels this led to her losing out on the property 
she wanted to buy. But, I cant safely conclude that this was definitely  the case  - from the 
information Ive seen. 
Ive thought about the impact of the mistakes  Santander  made  on Miss M. I think  it is likely 
she has experienced additional distress  and inconvenience and I find it fair that Santander  
should compensate  her for that. But, I havent got enough evidence  to reasonably conclude 
that Miss M has suffered a financial loss as a result of Santanders actions. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the £100 compensation Santander has paid already is 
fair and reasonable. It is about  the amount I would have awarded if the offer hadnt  been 
made already. And I cant fairly require Santander to pay more or do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3033918