K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that when she called  on British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) under her 
home emergency insurance policy, it failed promptly to find the source  of a water  leak from 
an upstairs bathroom, which resulted in damage  to her property. She is represented in 
bringing this complaint by her son, Mr K.
background
I issued a provisional decision this complaint on 28 March 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached 
to, and forms part of, this decision.
Neither Mrs K nor BGI has responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs K nor BGI has provided  any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited 
to:
1.reimburse Mrs K the £500 she paid her builder  for the repairs to the ceiling and tiles 
in her downstairs  toilet; 
2.pay Mrs K interest at the annual rate of 8% simple on the amount in 1. above from 
the date she paid the builder for this work  until settlement (1); and
3.pay Mrs K compensation  of £200, inclusive of the compensation it has previously 
offered, for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3884518(1)If BGI considers that its required by HM Revenue  and Customs to withhold income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs K a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if applicable.
Ref: DRN3884518COPY OF MY PROVSIONAL DECISION  OF 28 MARCH  2019
complaint
Mrs K complains that when she called  on British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) under her home 
emergency insurance  policy,  it failed promptly to find the source  of a water leak from an upstairs 
bathroom, which resulted in damage to her property. She is represented in bringing this complaint  by 
her son, Mr K.
background
Mrs K owned a property which  she let to tenants. She took out a home emergency  policy for the 
property with BGI. In December  2017 she called on BGI regarding a loss of electricity on the ground 
floor. The electrician who attended told her that the cause was water penetration, and she needed a 
plumber to find the source  of this.
BGI sent a plumber  on 27 December 2017. He said the problem was failure  of the grouting in an 
upstairs bathroom and advised Mrs K to repair this. On 10 January  2018,  water damage caused part 
of the ceiling  on the ground floor to collapse. A second BGI plumber attended  and attempted a repair.
A third BGI plumber had to attend on 5 February 2018 because  the leak was continuing. He found the 
leak was coming from the cistern in the upstairs bathroom. He pointed  out that there was now a lot of 
damage to the property  which needed to be addressed.
Mrs K employed a builder  to repair the two bathrooms. He reported what  he found, and the work he 
did, as follows:
Following an investigation a leaking toilet in upstairs bathroom was found. Toilet cistern to be 
cracked at rear. Owner  complained that electrical works were at fault.  The problem came from the 
cistern. The water had been leaking through the bathroom for some time. Around the toilet  area and 
deep into the walls and floor and bathtub foundation. Rot found. This caused severe  damage to the 
downstairs bathroom ceiling. The lights were tripped several times.  Eventually light,  ceiling and wall 
tiles were painted, replaced and fixed.
De-commission the existing upstairs bathroom  and stripped tiles to dry out the area and stop further 
mould. Bathroom out of use. Left humidifier  in for the week before installing sanitaryware.  New boxing 
for the bathtub.  Rehoused  the sink. Tiled  the walls and floor. Replaced  and reset  the radiator. 
Disposed of all rubbish.
Mrs K complained to BGI about its failure to find the source of the leak when its first plumber  
attended. She said BGI should pay for the cost of the repairs and the loss of rent, stress and 
inconvenience she had suffered. BGI offered compensation of £30 for its delay in considering her 
complaint, which she didnt accept. She complained to us.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. Bearing  in mind what  
Mrs Ks builder  reported  he had found, as set out above, the investigator thought it was unlikely  that 
all this damage occurred because of a few weeks delay in repairing  the cistern.
It seemed more likely that the extensive repairs would always have been necessary even if the leak 
had been correctly  diagnosed and repaired  on 27 December 2017.  However, he thought  it more  likely 
than not that the damage caused to the downstairs  toilet ceiling couldve  been avoided with the 
correct diagnosis and a timely repair.
Ref: DRN3884518Mrs K also complained there had been delays  by the builder in carrying out the work. However he 
couldnt reasonably say BGI were liable for these delays as it had no part in choosing  him.
He recommended BGI should pay for the repairs to the downstairs toilet ceiling  and tiles as this 
damage couldve  been  avoided by a correct diagnosis  and repair. He hadnt seen any evidence as to 
what the cost of this had been.
He also thought it wouldve been good customer service for BGI to have made  it clear  much earlier to 
Mrs K what it thought it was liable for and why. So he said BGI should pay Mrs K £150 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused by failing  to provide  her with a response to her claim and complaint. 
Neither BGI nor Mrs K accepted the investigators recommendation. BGI said it didnt cause the leak. 
It had been confirmed the leak was present for some  time before the incident, and Mrs K hadnt 
rectified the bath seals which it thought  contributed towards the ceiling damage.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that not only the downstairs ceiling  was damaged by the water  
the upstairs bathroom and its floor had to be dried out as well. He didnt think  £150 was sufficient  
compensation for the effects of BGIs poor service.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions make it clear that BGI isnt liable for any damage to the property 
unless it caused it. The relevant policy wording is as follows:
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property,  furniture or fixtures as a 
result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking  or failing unless  we caused it. For example  
damage caused by water leaks.
In this case, Mrs Ks builder made it clear in the report  quoted above that water had been leaking from 
the faulty cistern  for some  time  so long in fact that he found rot. So I agree with the investigator that 
the majority  of the damage to Mrs Ks property occurred  before the faulty diagnosis by BGIs plumber 
on 27 December 2017, and would have had to be repaired anyway.  So I cant reasonably say that 
BGI should reimburse this.
The investigator thought that if the plumber  had correctly diagnosed the cause of the leak on 27 
December 2017, the repairs to the downstairs ceiling  and refixing of the tiles wouldnt  have been 
needed. So BGI should  pay for that part of the work. BGI disagreed for the reasons Ive mentioned  
above.
Ive considered this carefully. The ceiling didnt  collapse  until 10 January 2018  some 14 days after 
the plumbers visit. On balance I think its more likely than not that the ceiling could have been saved 
if a correct diagnosis had been made on 27 December  2017.
Mr K has now produced confirmation from Mrs Ks builder that the cost of repairing the downstairs  
ceiling, and refixing  the downstairs tiles was £500. So I think its reasonable that BGI should 
reimburse this to Mrs K, with interest from the date she paid the builder for this work.
Mrs K clearly  suffered significant distress and inconvenience because  of all the work that had to be 
done in repairing/rebuilding the property.  However, as I have said,  I cannot  say that BGI was 
responsible for most of the work that had to be done.  I do think it was responsible for the distress she 
suffered because:
Ref: DRN3884518it took BGI from 27 December 2017 until 5 February 2018,  and several visits by its plumbers, 
to identify the cause  of the leak and tell her what needed to be done,  during which time the 
leak continued;  and
when she complained, it failed to respond to her complaint in a timely manner.
I think  fair compensation for this is £200, inclusive  of the compensation  BGI has previously offered.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mrs K or from BGI by 28 April 2019,  I intend  to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to order 
British Gas Insurance Limited  to:
1.reimburse Mrs K the £500 she paid her builder  for the repairs  to the ceiling and tiles in her 
downstairs toilet;  
2.pay Mrs K interest at the annual  rate of 8% simple on the amount in 1. above from the date 
she paid the builder for this work  until settlement (1); and
3.pay Mrs K compensation of £200, inclusive  of the compensation it has previously offered,  for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused  her.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3884518