K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains about the mileage on a car that was supplied to him under  a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited, trading as Alphera Financial 
Services.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that he signed in August 2017.  The cars mileage was shown on the agreement as 
being 19,496 miles.  But it was recorded  on the sales invoice as being  20,497  miles. And 
Mr J became aware some time later that the sales invoice had then been amended without 
his knowledge  or agreement  to be the same  as shown on the hire purchase agreement.  He 
complained to Alphera Financial Services. It offered to pay him £50 compensation to cover 
the difference in mileage and to change the start mileage on his agreement to the higher 
amount shown on the invoice. But Mr J didnt  accept its offer and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He thought that 
Alphera Financial  Services  offer was fair in the circumstances as it was calculated as the 
excess mileage rate of 4.2 pence  for each mile times 1,000 miles and then rounded up to 
£50. And he said that it had offered  to increase the compensation to £150.
Mr J didnt accept that offer and has asked for his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says that: 
the sales invoice  was correct when he signed  it with no changes  on it;
the signed sales invoice was changed  by hand without his knowledge after hed 
signed it;
he was never informed of the changed  mileage;
he was never given a copy  of the altered sales invoice;
he only received  a copy of the altered sales invoice  from Alphera Financial Services 
when he asked it for paperwork;  and 
the invoice  he received  from Alphera  Financial Services wasnt the invoice that he 
signed, and differs  from his correct copy from the dealer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A used  car was supplied to Mr J in August 2017.  The sales  invoice from the dealer  shows  
that the cars  mileage at that time was 20,947  miles and the car had been  serviced  in 
July 2017 when its mileage was recorded as 20,947 miles. So Im satisfied  that the cars 
mileage was 20,947 when  the car was supplied to Mr J. And I consider that he wouldve  
been able to check the cars mileage before the car was supplied  to him and that he 
wouldve been aware of its correct mileage  when he started to use the car.
The dealer  says that the mileage on the hire purchase agreement  was recorded incorrectly   
and its clear that the sales invoice was then altered to show the same mileage as that 
shown on the agreement.
Mr J complained to Alphera Financial  Services. He asked  it to refund all payments that hed 
made for the car, including his deposit, and to then be allowed  to purchase or refinance  the 
Ref: DRN38451702car or to hand it back. Alphera Financial Services offered  to pay him £50 compensation for 
the difference in mileage and to change the start mileage on his agreement to the higher 
amount shown on the invoice. And it has offered him a further £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.  
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances. And Im not persuaded that 
it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Alphera Financial Services to refund to Mr J 
any of the payments that hes made under the agreement  or to allow  him to purchase,  
refinance or reject the car. So I find that Alphera  Financial  Services  should pay £150 
compensation to Mr J and that it should change  the start mileage on his agreement to the 
higher amount shown on the invoice.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited, trading as 
Alphera Financial  Services,  should:
1.Pay £150 compensation to Mr J.
2.Change  the start mileage on his agreement to the higher amount shown on the 
invoice.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3845170