K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the refusal of a claim for his stolen bike under his Cycle Plan
insurance policy with Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in April 2020, part of which is copied below: 
Mr Fs bicycle was parked  within  the entrance hall of his work premises,  behind a street  
door secured with a Yale rim type lock. Mr F says it was locked through the wheels. As he 
was switching off the lights, preparing to leave, he heard a banging  noise, followed by the 
sound of the street door closing and found  his bike was missing.
RSA refused his claim on the basis that the bike had not been secured  to an immovable
object as it says is required whenever the bike is left away  from Mr Fs home. RSA did
however, pay Mr F £50 for a delay in giving a final response to his claim.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think the exclusion relied on by
RSA was sufficiently  clear. The investigator  also thought that the terms relied on were
significant and so should have been highlighted to Mr F when he bought the policy. The
adjudicator said it was not possible  for Mr F to secure his bike to an immovable object but it
was in a locked secure building and so he had not acted unreasonably.  She did not 
therefore consider  it was fair for RSA to refuse the claim. The investigator recommended  
that RSA should deal with the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the 
policy and pay Mr F £100 for the inconvenience experienced.
RSA does not accept the investigators assessment. It has made a number of submissions,
which Ive summarised below:
Theres no clear evidence  that the thieves used force to enter the building[as 
required by the policy].
The policy clearly states that in order for theft cover to apply when the bicycle  is
away from the home, it must be secured to an immovable object.
Mr F told it his bicycle wasn't locked to an immoveable  structure due to his
employer's health and safety rules, so he clearly understood  the policy and
consequences on non-adherence.
It has conceded the insurance product  information document  [could have been 
clearer] but says the insurance product information document  is no substitute for
the policy wording.
Prudent policyholders would take steps  to ensure exposure to theft is
limited. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers theft of the bike but excludes any claim for theft where the security
Ref: DRN33460312requirements have  not been met.
The security  requirements are as follows:
General  Security Requirements where  the bicycle is away from the home
Theft, Accidental / Malicious Damage of the Bicycle whilst away from the Home
shall only be covered  in circumstances where:
a) the Bicycle is not left unattended; or
b) the Bicycle is left unattended, but secured to an Immovable object by an Approved  Lock
through the frame and any quick release wheels or locked  within  a cycle  storage locker
within the boundaries of a train station,  bus station or coach station and
c) any access  to the Bicycle is effected  by forcible  and violent entry...
The policy also says it excludes:
Theft away from Home  unless the Bicycle  has been secured to an Immovable object with an
Approved Lock through the frame and any quick release  wheels and unless at an organised
Competition where the Bicycle is left in a bike rack being used at the Competition, the
Competition option has been  selected  and the additional premium paid. Marshalls  or similar
officials must be on location at the bike rack areas.
I do not consider  that this exclusion applies even if the bike is not left unattended.  Given the
security requirements set out above, I am satisfied that the policy covers bikes  away from
home, which are not left unattended, without them needing to be secured to an immovable
object.
Mr F was at work, cleaning  an empty office  premises when his bike was stolen. It appears to
have been a relatively small building, from photos provided by Mr F, the office  is above  a
small shop  unit. Mr F says the front door was secured and the bike was inside the building
with him. Given this, the bike was not unattended in my view. As the bike was not
unattended it was not required to be secured to an immovable object.
It is my opinion  therefore that RSA should meet the claim. The policy  provides for the cost of
replacing the bike as new,  if it was less than three years old, or on an indemnity basis
otherwise. It also allows RSA to specify certain suppliers. I do not know how old Mr Fs bike
was at the time of the theft or if he has now replaced  it. If Mr F has replaced  his bike already
then a cash in lieu settlement  will be appropriate and I do not consider that RSA can base
that on any discounted rate it may have  been  able to get if it had met the claim when it was
made.
I would invite Mr F to let me know  in response to this provisional decision, the age of his
insured bike and whether he would prefer RSA to arrange  replacement of the bike or a cash
in lieu settlement. I also invite RSA to confirm how it would  propose to meet the claim.
I also consider that RSA should pay Mr F £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused
by its unfair  refusal  of his claim.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN33460313I intend to uphold this complaint against Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and require  it to 
do the following:
meet the claim subject  to the remaining  terms of the policy,  together with interest  at
8% simple  per annum from the date of the theft to the date of reimbursement on any
cash settlement; and
pay Mr F £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the
incorrect refusal of his claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr F has confirmed he accepts my provisional  decision. He has told us his bike was more 
than three  years old and he has replaced  it with another  at a cost of £585. Mr F has asked 
for clarification of what a cash in lieu settlement  would mean.  Mr F has also said he has 
never cashed the cheque for £50 sent to him by RSA.
RSA does not accept my provisional decision. It says:
this is a specialised cycle policy and so Mr F should have read and been familiar with 
the requirements of the contract. 
If the bike was locked and the door of the building was locked the theft wouldnt have 
occurred.  
How did the thief gain entry to the building, if it was locked?  The policy requires there  
to be evidence of the use of force and violence, in such  circumstances and there  has 
only been an indication  of force. Mr F only says he heard  the door close,  so it is not 
convinced the building  door was locked.
Mr Fs presence  within  the building didnt stop the theft;  he clearly wasnt  in close 
enough proximity to prevent the loss which is why it says the bike was unattended.  
Mr F has not mitigated  his loss and if I make  it meet his claim, it is not fair to other 
customers that do mitigate their loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I assume that when  referring to a requirement on Mr F to mitigate his loss, RSA means he 
didnt do enough  to prevent the theft of his bike. 
The policy covers theft of the bike in certain circumstances. There  is a general responsibility 
on an insured person  to not be reckless  with any insured item. And the policy  imposes 
certain specific measures  that the policyholder should take to reduce the risk of theft,  as well 
as a general duty to take reasonable care. However, I do not agree that it has been 
established Mr F has breached any of those responsibilities. 
I remain of the opinion that the bike was not unattended. Mr F was inside a relatively  small 
office premises with the bike. Mr F has consistently said the front door was secured and the 
bike was inside the building with him. I am not persuaded that just because Mr F did not 
notice the theft until too late changes that. Stealth  crimes such  as this are intended to go 
unnoticed until after the fact. 
Ref: DRN33460314Mr F has provided  photographs of the door of the building which  shows  a yale type lock that 
would automatically  secure when  the door is closed. I have no reason  to doubt that the door 
was not securely  closed  as he has described.  I do not consider that this demonstrates  any 
lack of care, or that he has not acted reasonably.
RSA has also said there  needs to be evidence  of forcible and violent entry (by which  it would 
presumably mean a broken lock, or a broken door). However, the policy covers theft of the 
bike away from home if it is not unattended and also when it is unattended, but only if it is 
secured to an immovable  object  and there  is a forced and violent entry. So even if I were 
satisfied that it would be reasonable to insist on such evidence where there is no reason to 
doubt a forced entry  to a locked building, it is not relevant in the circumstances of this case. 
It is only a requirement for there to be forcible  and violent entry, if the bike is left unattended 
and I have explained why I consider it was not unattended.
It therefore remains my opinion that RSA should  proceed to meet the claim, subject to the 
remaining policy terms. As Mr F has replaced his bike already, the option in the policy for 
RSA to replace  the bike is no longer appropriate,  so RSA should make  a cash settlement 
instead. This is what is meant by a cash in lieu settlement (i.e. that Mr F should receive the 
cash instead of, or in lieu of, a replacement). 
As Mr Fs bike was over three years old, the policy covers the value of it on an indemnity 
basis, which means that he will not necessarily get the cost of a new replacement  but a cash 
settlement for the value of the bike at the time it was stolen, which would  allow a deduction 
for wear and tear. As stated in my provisional  decision, the cash settlement should not be 
based on any discounts that RSA may have  been able to use if it had met the claim when  it 
should have done. It will be for the parties  to agree  the value of the bike but Mr F can bring  
the matter back to us, if he is dissatisfied with any settlement offer. 
I also remain of the opinion that compensation of £100 should also be paid to reflect the 
trouble caused  to Mr F by the wrongful  refusal of his claim. This is in addition to the £50 
already offered for the delay in dealing with the complaint. I therefore consider that the total 
compensation to be paid is £150. Mr F says he has not cashed the cheque for £50 sent to 
him but if RSA can establish that it has already been  paid to him, then it only now needs to 
pay the remainder of the total sum of £150. 
Ref: DRN33460315my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and require it to do the 
following:
meet the claim subject  to the remaining  terms of the policy,  together with interest  at
8% simple  per annum from the date of the theft to the date of reimbursement on any
cash settlement; and
pay Mr F £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the
incorrect refusal of his claim and delay  in dealing with the matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3346031