K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the increases  in premiums on her home insurance with
Aviva Insurance Limited, which covered buildings only.
background
Mrs B and her late husband,  Mr B, took out the policy alongside a mortgage in 1994. The 
policy moved to Aviva  from another underwriter  in 2006 - so Aviva is only responsible for 
setting the price of the policy from that year onwards. Aviva has confirmed  that in 2012 the 
policy cost £265.  The next year, 2013, Mrs Bs insurance cost £345. 
In 2018, the insurance cost £743.09.  At this time,  after Mr B had passed away,  it was 
pointed out to Mrs B that the amount she was paying was excessive. Mrs B contacted Aviva 
to complain and ask for a refund of the premiums shed paid. She has now cancelled the 
policy and taken out insurance  elsewhere  for £233.
Aviva initially  said it wouldnt offer any refund. But eventually  said it would refund some of 
the 2017 and 2018 premiums  so in effect  she would pay the same price  as in 2016  up until 
she cancelled the policy. Aviva said that was effectively what  a new customer  would pay for 
the policy, and that prior to this Mrs B had been  paying less than the actual cost to Aviva.
Our adjudicator thought Avivas offer was fair and reasonable.  Mrs B disagreed,  so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. 
my findings
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Aviva has treated Mrs B fairly  throughout the period she held the policy.
If I find that Aviva hasnt treated Mrs B fairly, I will look to see what  compensation
would be fair and whether I think Avivas offer is fair. In this case, I think  the offer Aviva  has 
made is fair and reasonable. 
In 2012, Mrs B paid £265 for the policy. Its unclear how much she paid prior to this. But 
given the price she was paying in 2012, Ive no reason to think it wouldve been significantly 
higher prior to this. Or that she was treated unfairly before then. From 2013 onwards I can 
see that the premium  increased at renewal each  year. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by increasing the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the customer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated the customer fairly. And that 
they didnt take advantage by increasing the premiums just because the customer didnt 
engage with the cost.
Aviva has provided information  to show that between 2012  and 2016 it was charging Mrs B 
less than it should have done.  Having looked at this, Im satisfied that between 2012  and 
2016 the premium  Mrs B paid was less than Avivas assessment of the cost of providing the 
insurance (including, amongst other things, the cost of claims and operating costs). So, I 
dont think the amount  she was charged  in those years was unfair. While the premium 
Ref: DRN38337772increased over these years, this was because Aviva was adjusting what  Mrs B was paying 
so it would eventually  match  what  it cost to provide the insurance.  Aviva limited each 
increase in an attempt move  the price up gradually, rather than all in one go.
In 2017 and 2018 Mrs B paid more than Avivas assessment of the cost of providing the 
insurance. So, Aviva has offered to refund the difference  between  what  she paid in those 
years and what she paid in 2016. Overall,  I think thats a fair offer.  
Mrs B disagrees because she has found  insurance elsewhere for much  cheaper.  I fully 
understand her view on this, but insurers often include  discounts in order  to obtain new 
customers. That means that a new customer will often be paying  less than the true cost of 
providing the insurance policy.  And buildings insurance policies are not all the same  they 
have different levels of cover, excesses and differing  terms and conditions  that can affect the 
price charged. And each insurers costs may vary depending on many  things. So, just 
because the policy with Aviva cost a lot more than her new policy   that doesnt mean the 
amount charged  was unfair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mrs Bs home insurance policy from 2017  until the policy  was cancelled is fair.
If Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt already made the payment, it should also calculate 
additional compensation (set at 8% simple interest  per year) to reflect  the time that Mrs B 
has been without  that money.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3833777