K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Assetz SME Capital Limited  didnt carry out sufficient checks on the 
security he was told was available for a peer to peer (p2p)  loan he invested in. When  the 
company was unable to pay back  his loan, he was told there was insufficient security  
available to compensate him. 
background
In January 2016 Mr F invested £10,000 in a p2p loan that was offered on Assetzs platform. 
The loan was to fund the expansion of a trade finance company which Ill refer to as 
Company A. 
Before investing,  Mr F had sight of a number of documents  which gave him detail around 
Company As financials, its purpose for the loan and any other risks.  The documents 
available also outlined what security  Assetz  had over any assets owned by Company A, and 
their valuation at the time. Assetz was not required to advise Mr F. 
Unfortunately for Mr F, Company A ran into difficulties before the loan was paid back. And 
when Assetz  tried to enforce  the security it had over Company As assets,  it was insufficient 
to pay back investors. 
Mr F complained. One of our investigators  looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt think  it 
should be upheld.  
In short  he said:
Assetz didnt provide any advice to Mr F about whether or not to proceed  with 
investing in the loan.  
Assetz was required to ensure that the information about the loan was fair, clear and 
not misleading. To that effect,  the investigator  considered that the credit report  that 
was available  to Mr F was very clear about what  assets Company A had, and what  
the risks were to lending  to it. 
In particular, the investigator considered  that the report was clear  that Company A 
did not in fact have any assets of its own  and that the security was therefore  over 
debts and potential  other debentures, in particular in relation  to one large debtor. 
At the time of the loan, one particularly large  debtor held a mine that appeared to 
have considerable value. But Assetz wasnt required, nor could it be expected, to 
carry out due diligence on the assets of a company that wasnt  directly a borrower. It 
unfortunately transpired that this large debtor was unable to repay the debt owed  to 
Company A. Company  As administrators subsequently concluded that the mine was 
in fact worthless. 
Mr F didnt  agree. He said it was both unfair  and misleading to advertise a loan stating asset 
cover is in place to a LTV percentage  only for investors to then find out that was worthless.  
He said no company should hide behind their terms and conditions  to the detriment of their 
customers. He said that Assetz  made  money from the deal and couldnt absolve itself from 
paying compensation. He also said that as it had made several loans to the same client,  
therefore it is not unreasonable for investors  to assume they were  in fact satisfied this loan 
did have bona  fide realisable assets in the event  of failure. He also thought it wasnt fair that 
investors were essentially comforted by the fact that they were dealing  with an FCA 
regulated firm, when all that firm had to do was hide behind its terms and conditions in 
order to protect itself from paying compensation. 
Ref: DRN35543362As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Having considered the evidence, I think there  are two main issues  in this case which  require 
consideration. 
The first is to decide whether it was fair and reasonable,  in the particular circumstances of 
this case, for Assetz to have approved this particular promotion  including  taking into 
account to what  extent the promotional material was fair, clear  and not misleading about  
Company A, and in particular, about  its prospects of repaying the loan. This is what  the 
regulator required Assetz to satisfy itself of before approving the promotion. It wasnt for 
Assetz to make a decision  on Mr Fs behalf, or give him advice about whether lending to 
Company A was the right thing to do. But what  it needed  to do was ensure, among other 
things, that whatever information Mr F was being given, it wasnt  misleading  him into thinking  
that the loan was safer than it really was. 
The second  issue  to consider depends  on my conclusions above.  If I consider that Mr F was 
in fact misled because Assetz didnt carry out sufficient  due diligence  on the information 
available, then I need to consider what Mr F wouldve done had he been given the right 
information. 
In addressing the first of these  questions,  Ive paid particular  attention  to the credit  report 
that was available to Mr F at the time. I think this document is key and Id expect  an investor 
to have paid close  and very careful  attention to it. That isnt to say that the other  documents  
werent equally important   I can see a long list of other documents  such  as balance sheets 
and profit and loss data for various  years. But the credit report  encapsulates and distils key 
information, including the purpose  of the loan,  Company As business model and key risks to 
its ability to repay what it owes. 
Company As model essentially involved purchasing goods on behalf  of its clients  against 
confirmed orders. It had processes in place to mitigate the risk of default by its clients,  and 
these included relevant insurance  coverage as well as a limit on its overall financial outlay in 
the purchase of goods. 
The report  explained  that the loan of £1 million was sought with a bullet repayment after two 
years  or roll over subject to its expected growth and demand. Indeed I can see the report 
makes the possibility of Company A seeking further  loans  in the future  very clear.  
In the section called security,  which  I understand was Mr Fs key concern, I find the 
information about what security is available to be clear. I appreciate Mr Fs complaint that the 
advertised loan to value (LTV) suggested a level of security he says later transpired to be 
inaccurate. But Im satisfied the report explains clearly what  security was in place. 
Assetz had a first debenture over Company As assets  and these included stock,  cash  and 
debtors. And I think it was clear that it was the combined value of these assets at the time 
which suggested a particular LTV. At the time, there was no suggestion  that the security 
Ref: DRN35543363included fixed assets that might  hold a particular or intrinsic value. For example the credit 
report makes  it clear  that Company A didnt in fact have any fixed assets.  So I dont 
consider this information was misleading  Mr F into thinking there  was security when there 
wasnt. I think this information  clearly outlined that Assetz  did have security in place, what  it 
was and what it was worth.  It was for Mr F to decide  whether  that was sufficient for him to 
still proceed with the loan.  
And I think it was also reasonable for Mr F to have understood that the value of the 
debenture which Assetz had secured against  Company  As assets  was likely to fluctuate  
after all it would  depend  on when that security would be called on. Whilst I can see a 
covenant was in place  to ensure  it remained  at a certain level,  its clear to me that Company 
As business model would  be heavily reliant on its month to month  debtors  continuing  to pay 
it on time. I think  this aspect of lending  to Company A was clear  and ought  to have been 
taken into account  by Mr F when assessing  the risk of this loan.
Im not persuaded theres anything in this report that was misleading. I dont think  it was 
misleading for an LTV to be advertised, because after all Company A did have  assets in 
place  and Assetz  did have security over them. It was for Mr F to decide whether or not the 
nature of that security was such that he was satisfied investing in the loan was a risk worth 
taking  bearing in mind  the overall  nature of this type of investment meant  that it carried  a 
degree of risk that the loan would  not be paid back.  Im not persuaded Mr F was ever given a 
guarantee that this risk was entirely mitigated.  
Mr F was deciding  for himself  whether  this loan was a worthwhile investment. If ensuring that 
there was sufficient ongoing security to cover the loan was important for him, I think this 
ought to have prompted him to conclude  that this investment was likely too high risk for him. 
It later transpired that one of Company As largest  debtors was unable to pay back  its debt to 
it. And, worse, the security which Company A had over the fixed  assets of this debtor (a 
mine located  abroad)  couldnt be realised in order to pay the debt back. To be clear,  this 
wasnt Company As asset. This was an asset  owned by a third party,  over which  Company 
A had a charge. The value of this asset  wasnt something which Assetz couldve done  any 
due diligence  over,  because  it wasnt an asset that was owned by Company A at the time of 
the promotion  and it wasnt used  to calculate  the LTV of this loan, only the debt owed to 
Company A by the company that owned  the mine was. The point here is that it was apparent 
from the promotion and the information available, that this was a key risk of Company As 
business model  and something that Mr F likely  took into account when deciding  whether 
the interest rate he was receiving on the loan was worth the risk he was taking. 
When this debtor was unable  to pay back Company A, it transpired  that value of the mine  
was worth significantly less than anticipated. 
This meant that the debt owed to Company A couldnt be paid back, and was one of the 
reasons that caused Company A to go into administration and ultimately default on the loan. 
Whilst I have huge  sympathy for the fact that Mr F lost his investment as a result,  I consider 
Assetz fairly and reasonably ensured  that Mr F had all the information  he needed in order to 
make his decision to invest. I consider that from the documents available, it was clear that 
unpaid debts was the single most significant risk facing Company  As financial stability  and 
its ability to repay the loan. 
Ref: DRN35543364For all these reasons, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to require Assetz  
ought to pay any compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554336