K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy they were unable to set up a standing order on their current  
account with Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide), because of a block that was placed  
on it. They said they didnt  receive a proper  explanation about  what  had caused this. 
Background
Mr B tried to set up a new standing order with Nationwide on his and Mrs Bs joint current  
account, but was unable  to do so. He called Nationwide to find out why this was and was 
initially told it must be a temporary problem  with the system. When  he was still unable  to set 
it up, he called Nationwide  again but was kept waiting,  so he visited a Nationwide  branch the 
following day to sort out the problem. He was told there was a restriction  placed on the 
account which had meant the setting up of the standing order  was blocked. Although the 
issue was then resolved,  Mr B felt he hadnt received a proper explanation as to why the 
block was initially placed on the account. 
Nationwide acknowledged  there was a restriction in place, and that it was correctly set by its 
system for protection  of the account. It said that for confidentiality reasons it was unable to 
provide any further  clarity on why. But it apologised for the level of service Mr B had 
received. It said more investigation shouldve been  carried out when he initially  called, and 
that he was kept waiting  longer than necessary.  So it credited Mr and Mrs Bs account  with 
£100 to recognise  failings  in handling the matter, and for how long it took to resolve.
Unhappy with its response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into the matter, and didnt think Nationwide needed to provide full details 
of why the restriction had been placed  on the account, and he felt that it had done  enough.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept the investigators findings as they still thought further explanation 
should be provided. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, the case  has come to 
me, as an ombudsman to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
At the time Mr B initially tried to set up his standing order,  I can understand it must have 
been frustrating  for him to have had this request refused. Mr Bs told us he spent a 
considerable amount of time on the phone trying  to deal with this matter, and I recognise both 
this, and his trip to the branch that followed, wouldve caused him some  inconvenience. 
But a bank or building society can place a block on an account  for many reasons, one of 
which is to protect its customers and the security of their money.  And in order for customers 
accounts; and its systems  and processes  to remain secure, its not always possible to 
disclose the reasons why such a restriction was added.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B would like to know more about  why this restriction  was 
place, and they wanted to be reassured about the security of their account. However I can 
see that the adjudicator has since told Mr B that Nationwide has confirmed there was no 
suspicious activity on the account. And I think Nationwide  is entitled to keep any more 
detailed information  of the specific reasons confidential.
Ref: DRN30520902I can see that Nationwide has already  paid Mr and Mrs B £100 to compensate  them due to   
failings in the level of service  it provided.  And Mr B was kept on the phone  for rather a long 
while in attempting  to get the restriction removed from his account. And the fact he had to go 
into a branch on a later date wouldve understandably  been inconvenient.
But taking everything  into account, I think Nationwides  payment to Mr and Mrs B fairly 
recognises its failings  in the circumstances of this case. So Im not instructing it to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3052090