K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
secured loan in 2003. The loan was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr W  as 
the first named person  on the loan agreement  for accident sickness and unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs W say Northern Bank Limited  (trading as Danske Bank)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs W say they were  led to believe the PPI was compulsory,  and part of the loan 
they were taking out. But while  I cant know exactly what  was discussed at the time, I 
have looked at the paperwork  that they completed when they applied for their loan.  And I 
havent seen anything in that paperwork to make me think  the PPI was presented  that 
way.
Mr and Mrs W first completed a loan application, which  had a separate  section relating to 
PPI, this included  two clear options, to either take the PPI or to go ahead with the loan 
without PPI. Mr and Mrs W ticked the yes box to confirm they wanted  to take the PPI. 
And the loan application  also explained  that as the first named person on the loan 
agreement, it would only be Mr W who was eligible  for the cover.
Mr and Mrs W were then sent a loan agreement, several days  later,  which again asked 
Mr W to confirm whether or not he wanted the PPI. And as before, there was a clear  
option presented  to say no to the PPI if it wasnt wanted or required.  Mr and Mrs W 
ticked yes to take the PPI and Mr W then signed, separately to his signature for the loan 
itself, to confirm he wanted to take the PPI.
With all this in mind, I think  Northern Bank  made it clear that Mr and Mrs W had a choice 
about taking PPI and that they chose  to take it to cover  Mr W.
 
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. I appreciate that Mr W had good 
sick pay through his employer, but the PPI would have covered the loan repayments for 
up to 12 months if he had been  too ill to work, so longer than hes said his full sick pay 
would have lasted.  I also understand that Mr and Mrs W had savings  at the time, but the 
PPI would have  meant those  savings were available for other  essential  expenditure. And 
given that the loan was secured  against their home  and so there  were  serious  
consequences if they could not keep up the repayments  I still think  they PPI could 
have provided  them  with a useful benefit.
Ref: DRN33970632Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it could  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
This means Northern  Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs W.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because Northern  Bank 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said, including their comment that the PPI 
would actually have  been more useful  for Mrs W than for Mr W. But as Ive explained above, 
the paperwork they completed made  it clear that the policy would only cover  the first named 
person on the loan agreement  Mr W  and gave a clear option to say no to the PPI if they 
didnt want it. So this point  doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  make  any further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3397063