K821x#15complaint
Miss J is complaining that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) didnt update her 
new address on all the records it had for her car insurance policy.
background
Miss J took out a car insurance policy through Hastings  a broker. Her car was 
subsequently damaged  by another driver and she reported the incident to Hastings. But she 
said that she was going to claim  directly through the other drivers insurance policy. Hastings 
asked her if she wanted it to refer her details to a solicitor firm under her legal expenses 
insurance policy. She said she did, so Hastings passed it on to a firm.
Miss J called Hastings the following year to say that shed moved house. Hastings updated 
her insurance policy and Miss J paid the additional premium  for doing so.
Miss J later received correspondence from the solicitor firm which said that Miss J hadnt 
been responding to its correspondence. And it said that this might  be considered a breach of 
contract and could end up with her being taken  to court. It transpired the solicitor firm had 
been writing to Miss Js old address.
Miss J complained that Hastings hadnt  updated all her records.  She also said that it had 
done a number of searches on her credit  file that she didnt think  were  necessary.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said that Hastings should  have updated  her 
claims database  including giving the correct contact details to the solicitor  firm. The 
investigator thought  that this had caused Miss J some distress  and inconvenience  and 
recommended that Hastings pay her £150  in compensation.  
But she said that the searches Hastings had done were  soft searches so wouldnt impact  
Miss Js credit file. So she didnt think Hastings needed to do anything to put this right.
Hastings accepted it should have  updated  the claims database. But it thought £50 was fairer  
compensation. Miss J still didnt think Hastings should have done  the searches, but she 
accepted the investigators findings.
As Hastings  didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
Hastings has accepted that it should have updated  Miss Js details  on her claims database. 
So I wont  comment on that in this decision, apart from to say I agree with the investigators  
findings.
I appreciate Hastings doesnt think  £150  is fair. But Im conscious that, due to its failure to 
update Miss Js records, shes been threatened with being in breach of contract and could 
result in court proceedings and a judgement being  entered against her. I can imagine that 
Ref: DRN38624322this would have  been very distressing for her, especially  given the accident wasnt her fault. 
Shes also had to spend some time trying to put this right.
While I dont dispute that this was a simple administrative  error, I think the consequential 
impact of this has been quite significant. So I agree with the investigator that £150 is fair 
compensation in this case. 
Ive also considered Miss Js concerns about  the credit searches Hastings did. But I havent 
seen anything to say that Hastings was wrong  to do these. And, as the investigator  pointed  
out, they havent impacted Miss Js credit score. So I cant  say Hastings has to compensate  
her for this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited  to pay Miss J £150 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss j to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3862432