K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Casheuronet UK LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 7 payday loans Casheuronet provided to Mr W under the trading 
name QuickQuid, and 1 instalment loan it provided  to him under the trading name Pounds 
to Pocket. The instalment  loan was to be repaid over six months and was Mr Ws last loan 
with Casheuronet.
These loans were lent to Mr W between September 2015 and June 2018. There was a gap 
of over 8 months between  loan 4 and loan 5. I understand  Mr W has repaid all of his loans.
Mr Ws lending  history is as follows:
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ws complaint and thought  that loans 4 and 8 should not 
have been given. Casheuronet disagreed, and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);Loan Date  opened Date  closedAmount
borrowedHighest contractual 
repayment
1 16/09/2015 30/10/2015 £300 £368.40
2 05/11/2015 31/12/2015 £400 £499.20
3 15/01/2016 29/02/2016 £400 £489.28
4 05/03/2016 04/04/2016 £650 £785.72
5 15/12/2016 02/02/2017 £300 £367.20
6 23/03/2017 07/06/2017 £300 £372.00
7 11/06/2017 17/10/2017 £500 £624.00
8 26/10/2017 29/06/2018 £600 £172.52
Ref: DRN37570512the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Ive not found  enough  reason  to say that loans 1 to 3 or loans 5 to 7 were irresponsibly lent. 
For instance, there were  times where Casheuronet ought to have done more in terms of 
checks. But from what Mr Ws told us and the evidence I have, it doesnt suggest those 
loans were unaffordable, and I cant say that proportionate checks would have revealed 
anything that shouldve lead Casheuronet to decline those loans.
But as our adjudicator  explained, the repayments  for loan 4 made up a significant proportion 
of Mr Ws income,  which wouldve shown on a proportionate check, and did show on the 
check Casheuronet did. Indeed, the highest  repayment made up the majority of his overall  
income and the vast majority of his disposable  income, leaving him with relatively  little for 
anything else or for any unexpected costs. And by that point Mr W had borrowed a number  
of times, with small gaps  between his loans, which suggests there was a shortfall  in his 
budget and he couldnt reliably spread his income over multiple  months. So I think  
Casheuronet shouldve known that it was unlikely loan 4 would  be sustainably affordable for 
Mr W, whichever way it was restructured.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mr W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Casheuronet should reasonably have seen  that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Casheuronet should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN37570513Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 8. I say this because:
By the time Mr W asked for loan 8 hed been borrowing from Casheuronet for a 
lengthy period  and he wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed it. 
Loan 8 was taken out 10 months after loan 5, and it was for twice as much.  By then,  
Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to Casheuronet to effectively  service  a debt 
to it over an extended period.
Although there had been a gap of 49 days between Mr W repaying loan 5 and asking 
to borrow again, I dont think it would have been  reasonable  for Casheuronet to 
conclude this was an indication that Mr Ws finances  had moved on from whatever  
situation had required his previous loan.
By loan 8, Mr W had been borrowing regularly and consistently from Casheuronet, 
being provided with a new loan within days of settling a previous one. So 
Casheuronet ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr W was having  to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances, and that Mr Ws indebtedness  was continuing unsustainably.
I think that Mr W lost out because Casheuronet provided loan 8. It had the effect of unfairly 
prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive  credit intended for short-
term use over an extended period of time.  And by that point,  his significant history of 
borrowing meant that any further  lending was likely to have negative implications on Mr Ws 
ability to access mainstream credit, which kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
I do appreciate that Mr W didnt borrow any more loans from Casheuronet after loan 8, but 
thats only something it knows in hindsight. At the point  it lent loan 8, it should  reasonably  
have realised that he was borrowing unsustainably  owing  to his history  up to that point.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 8, and Casheuronet should put things right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 4 and 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Ws credit  file;
loan 8s effect on Mr Ws credit  history means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 8 should  be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses  to take off tax from this interest. Casheuronet must  
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN37570514my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
should put things right for Mr W in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3757051