K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the level of customer service he received from National Westminster 
Bank Plc. He wants a realistic level of compensation and for the individuals involved to be 
disciplined. 
background
Mr M is a customer of NatWest. When he visited a local branch,  he was unhappy with the 
service he received. He told us that he asked to speak  to the branch manager and left his 
contact details on a blank piece of paper. Mr M goes  on to say that the branch manager 
failed to contact  him and has since given him three versions of what happened to Mr Ms 
contact details. He also told us that the manager  admitted  to having someone 
eavesdropping/spying on their conversation without asking his permission. 
When Mr M complained to NatWest it accepted that he should have been  shown  greater 
empathy, consideration and support. The bank apologised  to Mr M. It paid him a total of 
£146.20 to cover his call costs, time and any trouble and upset he may have suffered. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. In short,  he thought NatWest had dealt with the complaint fairly 
and didnt need to do anything else. Mr M didnt  agree. He asked for the matter  to be 
escalated. So Mr Ms complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did NatWest act fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Ms complaint? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I can see that Mr M was unhappy  with the service he got when he visited  a branch of 
NatWest. He wanted to speak to the branch manger, but he wasnt available.  So Mr M left 
his contact details  on a piece of paper. This was then placed in the managers in-tray.  
Ive looked at the banks  records. These  show that the branch manager did call Mr M back. 
In a very brief call, Mr M said it wasnt convenient to talk. The branch manager called again  
around half an hour later, and also made two further  calls that same day. All of these three 
subsequent calls went straight to Mr Ms voicemail. The branch manager left his first name 
and a short  message saying he would  try again.  It seems  they spoke the next day. 
I understand Mr M was unhappy that the branch managers messages didnt include much 
detail, or identify where he was calling from. I can appreciate why Mr M has questioned this. 
But Im satisfied that the branch manager wouldnt want  to go into much detail in an 
answerphone message,  especially as he said he would try again later to speak to Mr M. I 
Ref: DRN32071462would also point out that Mr M had asked for, and was expecting, a call from the branch 
manager. So I dont  think NatWest did anything wrong here. 
I know Mr M is unhappy that the branch  manager  said that Mr Ms contact details were 
written on a piece of paper that included  NatWests logo when this wasnt  the case. I think  
this is most likely to be a misunderstanding  by the manager. I can see that NatWest  has 
apologised to Mr M. As this particular  issue hasnt caused any financial loss to him, Im 
satisfied an apology is sufficient here.  
Mr M also wants to know what happened to the piece of paper that contained his contact 
details. Given the passage of time, its not possible to be 100% certain about this. But I think  
its more likely than not that these details  have been securely shredded.  Again, this issue 
hasnt caused  any financial  loss to Mr M. 
Ill now turn to Mr Ms unhappiness  about  what he says was someone eavesdropping/spying  
on his conversation with the branch manager. I can see from the banks records  that the 
branch manager  has clearly stated that no one was eavesdropping on his conversation with 
Mr M.
Ive listened to the call extract Mr M sent to us. This shows that the branch  manager told 
Mr M that he had a member of staff present to witness him calling Mr M. The branch 
manager has explained this was done  to evidence the call attempt as hed already  made  
several unsuccessful  call attempts to Mr M before. 
Im very aware that Mr M has made numerous  other complaints about NatWests  service. 
With this in mind, I can fully understand why the branch manager would want to be able to 
demonstrate that hed called Mr M. I dont think there was anything untoward  in this at all. It 
doesnt amount  to eavesdropping/spying. In these circumstances, Im satisfied that it was a 
legitimate precaution the branch manager felt he needed, and was perfectly  entitled,  to take. 
As Ive said,  Im aware Mr M has made other  complaints to NatWest.  I can see hes not 
happy with how these have been dealt with. I would point out to Mr M that complaint  
handling, as a stand alone  activity, isnt an activity thats covered by our service. So I wont  
be commenting on this issue any further.  
I can fully appreciate that Mr M feels frustrated by what he sees  as NatWests  poor service.  I 
can see he wants the staff involved to have disciplinary proceedings taken again them. But 
the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt  regulate the banks in general, or NatWest  in 
particular. 
We are an impartial dispute resolution service.  We are independent  from consumers and 
financial businesses. We dont have  the power  to tell NatWest  what level of customer  service 
to provide. Nor can we tell it how it should  deal with its employees. 
Ultimately, any commercial business  that consistently fails to provide a reasonable level of 
customer service  is likely to lose customers.  But customers  are entitled to be provided with a 
reasonable level of service. If theyre not, and suffer financial loss, trouble  or upset as a 
result, then we can consider how best this should  be put right.  
The available evidence doesnt  show that Mr M has experienced any financial loss here.  
NatWest accepts the service it provided  could have been better. As above, the bank has 
apologised to Mr M. It has also already  paid him £16.20 to cover his call costs, £30 for the 
Ref: DRN32071463time hes spent dealing with this issue and £100  for the concern, frustration and 
inconvenience hes been caused.  
In the circumstances here, I think NatWests apology and payment of a total of £146.20 is a 
fair and reasonable settlement of Mr Ms complaint. Im not asking  it to do, or pay, anything  
else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207146