K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) havent paid a claim for medical  expenses  
and hospital benefit under her travel  insurance  policy.
Mrs B also says Lloyds repatriated her back to the UK before she was medically fit to return. 
All references to Lloyds  include their underwriting syndicate who are named in Mrs Bs 
policy terms and conditions, as well as the agent  appointed by Lloyds to handle  medical 
claims (M).  
background
Mrs B held an annual  travel insurance policy, provided by Lloyds.
While on holiday  in America, Mrs B fell ill and tried to telephone the medical emergency
number set out in her policy  booklet.  When Mrs B couldnt get through,  she phoned the
general claims number instead  and spoke to the agent appointed  by Lloyds to deal with
non-medical claims (R).
R incorrectly gave Mrs B the telephone number of a different medical emergency claims line,
run by a company (H) who have  no contractual relationship with Lloyds. When Mrs B
contacted H, they accepted the claim in error  on behalf of another  insurer  (Insurer  A).
Mrs B isnt a customer of Insurer A and didnt hold a travel insurance  policy  with them.
Mrs B was admitted to hospital with a pneumothorax (collapsed lung) and was treated for
four days, before being  discharged  with instructions not to fly. Mrs B then had a number of
follow-up medical appointments as an outpatient.
Unfortunately, Mrs Bs condition deteriorated  and she was admitted to a second hospital.
Mrs B remained in the second hospital  for just over a week  and underwent surgery.
Mrs B was in regular contact with Insurer A throughout  this time and Insurer  As agent  issued
a guarantee of payment  to the second hospital  for Mrs Bs surgery.
On the day Mrs B was discharged from the second  hospital, Insurer  A realised they werent
responsible for Mrs Bs travel insurance and contacted Lloyds as Mrs Bs correct insurer.
Lloyds then informed  Mrs B about  what  had happened.  After reviewing the medical  reports
from the second hospital, Lloyds began to make arrangements to repatriate Mrs B back  to
the UK with a nurse escort. Mrs B felt this went against the medical advice of her treating
doctors but said she didnt  see any other option  but to agree  to Lloyds plans. Mrs B was
admitted into hospital upon her return to the UK.
Lloyds reimbursed Mrs B for money  shed paid towards her treatment in the first hospital
and paid the balance of that bill. They also paid Mrs B four nights of hospital benefit for this
first hospital  stay.
But both Lloyds and Insurer  A disputed responsibility for the cost of Mrs Bs outpatient
treatment and second hospital  stay.
Ref: DRN36851642Mrs Bs daughter, who lives in America, began  receiving reminders about Mrs Bs
outstanding medical bills. Lloyds have said they estimate the outstanding medical  bills
(including the second hospitals  bill, outpatient costs and other medical expenses) total
$340,724.65. Mrs B understandably became  concerned that the issue would impact on her
ability to visit her family in America. So, she complained to both Insurer  A and Lloyds.
Insurer A didnt respond to Mrs Bs complaint. Lloyds sent Mrs B a final response  letter
saying:
they thought  Mrs Bs medical condition would  have been at very high risk of
deterioration after her first hospital  stay
because of this, they would  have  repatriated Mrs B back to the UK by air ambulance
after she was discharged from the first hospital
therefore, Lloyds  wouldnt accept responsibility  for the remainder of Mrs Bs medical
costs but said they had sent an offer of $120,000 to Insurer  A as a contribution
towards the cost of the second hospital  stay. Lloyds  subsequently also put this offer
directly to the second hospital
Lloyds has said this $120,000 was calculated from the amount it would have cost
Lloyds to repatriate Mrs B to the UK by air ambulance after her first hospital
admission minus what it actually cost Lloyds for Mrs Bs eventual repatriation  with a
nurse escort
Lloyds said they would keep Mrs B informed  of developments concerning the costs
of the second  hospital  stay
the hospital and other  medical  providers  had the right to take legal action if Insurer A
failed to honour the guarantee of payment that had been  given
Mrs B wasnt entitled to hospital benefit  for the duration of her second  hospital stay,
as Lloyds would have repatriated her before this admission and Mrs B should take 
this element of her complaint  up with Insurer A
Mrs B then brought  her complaint about Lloyds  to this service.  
While the complaint was with us, Lloyds told us the second hospital had verbally accepted  
their offer of $120,000 and the hospital  would  issue a release to Mrs B, absolving  her from 
further liability. However, despite  chasing  the hospital for written confirmation of the 
acceptance, Lloyds  never received this. 
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint. He pointed out that the Financial Ombudsman
Service only has the power to make  a legally binding money award of up to £150,000. But
he recommended  that Lloyds  should pay Mrs Bs outstanding medical bills and hospital
benefit for the second hospital  stay, together with interest. He also said he thought Lloyds
should pay Mrs B £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a
result of their handling of the claim.
Lloyds accepted our investigators recommendations about the hospital benefit  and
compensation payment. But Lloyds didnt agree they should have to cover the outstanding
medical bills. Lloyds  pointed to evidence which they said indicated Mrs B hadnt wanted to
return to the UK after her first hospital  admission.  They  said this shouldnt  have been Mrs Bs
decision to make and they felt Insurer A had allowed the case  to run without any direction or
loss mitigation.
Lloyds also said theyd  received correspondence from solicitors  for the second  hospital and
they had reiterated their offer of $120,000  again.  As the second  hospital was by far the
Ref: DRN36851643largest creditor, Lloyds  said if this offer was accepted they would proceed to settle the
remaining bills.
But Lloyds said they wouldnt agree to be bound by any recommendations made by the
Financial Ombudsman  Service  which were above our £150,000 limit.
Mrs B responded to our investigators  recommendations  to say, amongst other things, she
wants the power to determine how any payments are distributed amongst the medical
providers and she didnt  feel £750 compensation adequately reflected the distress shed
experienced.
In response to Lloyds  comments  that Mrs B hadnt wanted to return  to the UK, Mrs B said
she repeatedly asked Insurer A if she could come home but they refused. Mrs B has
provided email evidence in support of this. 
As a resolution between  the parties  couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to
me to decide. I made a provisional decision about  the case  in October 2019. In it, I said:
In reaching  my provisional decision,  Ive taken into account longstanding industry rules (the
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Insurance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
8.1.1R), which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and
                 appropriate information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim...; and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive also taken into account further  industry guidance (the Financial Conduct Authoritys
Responsibilities of Providers  and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD))
which says a firm should act fairly and promptly when handling claims, meeting any
reasonable customer expectations  that it may have created with regard  to the outcomes or
how the process would  be handled.
the businesses  involved
At the outset, Id like to make it clear to Mrs B that I have sympathy with the situation she
has found herself in, through  no fault of her own.
Based on the information Ive seen, Insurer As actions do not appear to be in dispute.
Insurer A incorrectly accepted Mrs Bs claim,  authorised  her to stay in America and said
surgery was medically  appropriate  and necessary before  she returned to the UK. Insurer  A
doesnt appear to have  had any contact at all with Mrs B after she was discharged from the
second hospital. Insurer A also doesnt appear to have engaged  with Lloyds about finding a
resolution to this matter  for Mrs B.
But, in making  my decision,  Im only considering Mrs Bs complaint  about Lloyds. This
means I can only make findings  about  what,  if anything, I think  Lloyds have done wrong.
And I can only make recommendations about  what I think  Lloyds  not Insurer  A  need  to
do to put things right.
Ref: DRN36851644Our investigator has explained  to Mrs B that she may be ineligible  to bring  a complaint to us
about Insurer A. For the avoidance of doubt, Im not reaching any conclusions  about that
issue here. But I want to point out to Mrs B that she may wish to consider taking legal advice
about whether  she has any recourse against Insurer A for what happened  here.
who provided Mrs B with the wrong  telephone number?
Insurer A originally told this service that they understood the seller of the policy was the
business responsible for giving Mrs B the incorrect telephone number for business  H  who
went on to wrongly accept the claim on behalf  of Insurer  A. But its now clear this wasnt  the
case.
Mrs B told us she originally tried to contact  the medical emergency assistance  number set
out in her policy documents but couldnt  get through. Lloyds have  questioned  why the
correct medical emergency  assistance  number isnt listed  on Mrs Bs telephone bills. But, as
far as Im aware, an unanswered call may not always appear listed on a phone bill.
In any event, its not in dispute that Mrs B called another number set out in her policy
documentation and got through to Lloyds  agent, business R. Business R gave Mrs B the
wrong telephone number,  which she used  to get in touch with business  H.
Lloyds (through  business R) made an error here.  But Insurer  A (through business H) then
made a further  error by accepting  the claim and failing to realise  its mistake  for over two
months.
I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for the whole chain of 
events that followed  Mrs Bs initial phone call to business R. But I cant  see that Lloyds have 
ever acknowledged  their role in the situation.  This is a factor which  Ive considered  when 
thinking about the impact of Lloyds actions on Mrs B later on in this provisional decision. 
the outstanding medical  bills and hospital benefit for the second hospital  stay 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Bs insurance  policy cover Mrs B for medical and
repatriation costs of up to £10 million. The policy says Lloyds will pay for:
medical, hospital and treatment expensesnecessarily and reasonably incurred
outside the United Kingdom on medical  advice as a direct result  of the Insured
Personsuffering the onset of illness.
This is subject to a number of provisions, including;
3. We reserve  the right to repatriate  to the United Kingdom when in the opinion
ofOur medical advisors the Insured  Person  is fit to travel.
4. the Assistance Company is notified:
a. prior to the insured  Person being admitted as an inpatient to any hospital, clinic  or
nursing home. If this is not possible because of the seriousness of the condition then
You must contact the Assistance Company as soon as possible after being
admitted
Im satisfied Mrs B did attempt to contact  the assistance company as soon as she could.
Ref: DRN36851645Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Insurer A and Lloyds took different approaches to
repatriation in the situation Mrs B was in. Insurer As preference was clearly for Mrs B to
remain in America and receive treatment  there.  Lloyds says they would have repatriated
Mrs B to the UK at the earliest possible opportunity after her first hospital admission,  as the
policy entitles them to do.
Id expect an insurers decision  in this situation  to be fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances, and I think this includes taking into account whats in the best medical
interests of the patient. Im not a medical  expert,  so its not for me to substitute the opinion  of
Mrs B and/or Lloyds  doctors with my own. Instead,  I need  to weigh up the medical evidence
available to decide whether I think, on the balance of probabilities, this supports Lloyds
assertion that theyd  likely  have repatriated Mrs B by air ambulance  as soon as possible
after she was discharged from the first hospital.
When Mrs B was discharged from the first hospital, she was noted as having a small, stable
pneumothorax. Her treating doctor said she needed a follow-up x-ray and wasnt  fit to fly for
eight weeks. The notes  Ive seen indicate  Insurer A disagreed with this and thought Mrs B
would instead  be fit to fly seven days after a chest x-ray confirmed her lung had fully
re-inflated.
Mrs B was seen as an outpatient  five days after being discharged from the first hospital. It
was noted that Mrs B had a small pneumothorax  with no significant  change from her date of
discharge. At Mrs Bs next outpatient  appointment, 20 days after being  discharged  and 15 
days after the previous outpatient  report,  the pneumothorax was noted as having  increased
in size.
Four days later, the pneumothorax was noted as having minimally increased in size again
since Mrs Bs previous outpatient appointment. And, three days after that, a small right
pneumothorax was noted at another outpatient  visit.
Two weeks later  just under six weeks after being discharged from the first hospital  
Mrs Bs treating doctor  confirmed the pneumothorax  was unresolved  and said it was
inadvisable for Mrs B to fly or travel  at that time.
Mrs B went  to an emergency room 12 days after this report, after which she was admitted
into the second hospital where she was noted  to be not fit to fly by any means.
Ive also considered the medical evidence provided  by Lloyds. Lloyds evidence consists, in
the main,  of a short email  from a clinical services manager at an air ambulance provider
dated around eight months after Mrs Bs admission to the first hospital. The email says the
presence of an intercostal  drain is preferable for air ambulance transfer  and Mrs Bs drain
had already been removed when she was discharged from the first hospital. The email notes
the pneumothorax was described as small and stable  and says the clinical services manager
would be interested in reviewing any subsequent  chest radiographs  to ensure that the
pneumothorax had not increased in size prior to transfer. I understand Lloyds, in response
to our investigators view,  have pointed out there would actually have been no need  for the
review of further information  as they would  have repatriated Mrs B immediately after her
discharge from the first hospital.
The email  provided  by Lloyds ultimately concludes that the air ambulance company would
have been happy to repatriate Mrs B.
Ref: DRN36851646Ive taken into account Lloyds comments about  the mode of transportation being
contemplated by the doctor  who wrote  the discharge  report  from the first hospital and the
information they have provided about  travelling after a pneumothorax prior to full expansion
of the lung.
I want to acknowledge  at this point that Lloyds have perhaps been disadvantaged in their
ability to obtain  persuasive and/or contemporaneous medical evidence through no fault of
their own.  Having said that, having  considered all of the circumstances including the timings
of Mrs Bs hospital admissions and outpatient tests, I think the opinion of Mrs Bs treating
doctors at the first hospital and at her outpatient appointments carry more  weight  in this
case.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not saying it wouldnt have been  possible for Lloyds to
repatriate Mrs B after her first hospital admission. But, overall,  I dont think  I can fairly say
based on the medical evidence which Ive seen that its likely Lloyds would have arranged
repatriation for Mrs B at an earlier opportunity.
Crucially in my opinion, even if I were  satisfied that Lloyds were likely to have  repatriated
Mrs B as soon as possible,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Lloyds to refuse to
pay for Mrs Bs outstanding medical  bills and hospital benefit payment for the second
hospital stay anyway.
Lloyds have pointed  out on numerous  occasions to both Mrs B and to the second treating
hospital that it believes Insurer A is responsible  for the situation  Mrs B has found herself in.
Lloyds feel the hospital and Mrs B have a potential cause of action against Insurer A.
But Lloyds is the provider of Mrs Bs travel  insurance policy  and I see no reason why Lloyds
couldnt have  chosen to indemnify Mrs B for the medical costs  she incurred and then use
their own subrogation  rights to pursue Insurer A themselves.  Furthermore, Lloyds have the
ability and negotiating power  to cost contain  (reduce) costs with American  medical providers
 potentially reducing the liability  associated  to Mrs Bs medical treatment.  But although
Lloyds have put an offer of $120,000 to the second  hospital, I dont think they have made
reasonable efforts to pursue this or taken other reasonable steps to cost contain.
Mrs B has been left in a vulnerable position  through no fault of her own and Im not
persuaded Lloyds have  provided her with a reasonable level of assistance or treated her, as
their customer, fairly. So, even if I didnt think Lloyds were responsible for paying Mrs Bs
claim under the terms and conditions of her policy, Id recommend they should  pay her claim
on a fair and reasonable basis in line with my powers to do so.
Turning to Lloyds  comments  that Mrs B was unwilling to return  to the UK, Ive considered
the evidence which Lloyds have referred to. This is an extract from an email  chain referring
to a conversation  between a medical assistance company doctor and a doctor at the second
hospital. The email  says It has become clear that the patient actually did not want  to come
home prior to surgery. Neither Lloyds nor this service are aware  of the context  of the 
surrounding correspondence, as we dont  have a copy  of the rest of the email chain.
Mrs B has told us she isnt aware of the reasoning for the content  of this note and that its
inaccurate. She has also provided us with emails dated prior to her admission  to the second
hospital, referred to in the background section above, which  I think  demonstrate  her desire  to
return to the UK.
Ref: DRN36851647Overall, Im persuaded Mrs B wasnt actively seeking to remain  in America   Im satisfied
she wished to return home but instead stayed abroad based on the advice given  to her by
Insurer A and her doctor.
This means  I intend  to recommend that Lloyds  should pay Mrs Bs outstanding medical
costs. This includes all outpatient charges as well as the cost of the second hospital stay.  I
also intend to recommend  that Lloyds should pay Mrs B hospital  benefit for the second
hospital stay.
Mrs Bs eventual  repatriation
Mrs B has said when  Lloyds repatriated her back to the UK, this was against the medical
advice of her treating  doctor at the second  hospital and this premature repatriation  affected
her recovery  and her ability to return to work.
Our investigator didnt  address this issue  in his view but Ive now reviewed the medical
evidence which is available to me.
Mrs Bs discharge summary from the second hospital  says she shouldnt  fly for three weeks.
I can see Mrs B has also provided a letter following an outpatient  appointment dated  one
week after her discharge from the second  hospital which  says Mrs B may not travel or fly for
seven weeks after her discharge from the hospital.
Claims notes from the day before Mrs B was discharged from the second hospital refer to
medical airline guidelines  for patients  with Mrs Bs condition. These are recorded  as saying a
patient would be fit to fly unescorted two weeks after surgery  and with a medical escort  after
one week. And the claims notes  go on to indicate  that the treating doctor at the second
hospital verbally said Mrs B was fit to fly on a commercial airline with no escort  on discharge.
Mrs B was repatriated with a medical escort ten days after being  discharged  from the second
hospital  and three days after the date of the above  mentioned outpatient letter.
Lloyds say they have a signed fit to fly note from Mrs Bs treating doctor.  This doesnt  seem
to have been provided with the information Lloyds have sent to us. If Lloyds would like me
to consider this evidence  then theyll need to send  it to me with their response  to my
provisional decision.
Based on the information I currently have, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Lloyds
acted reasonably when deciding to repatriate  Mrs B as soon  as they did. And this is
something which Ive factored into the award of compensation  which I think  its appropriate
for Lloyds  to pay Mrs B.
Ref: DRN36851648the impact of Lloyds  actions on Mrs B
I appreciate Lloyds position in this case has been prejudiced  by the actions  of Insurer  A.
But I dont think Lloyds  have demonstrated  they arent fairly responsible for Mrs Bs
outstanding medical costs  and hospital  benefit,  and there are a number of things which I
think Lloyds could have  done differently in this case.
Lloyds doesnt  seem to have  taken any responsibility for the fact that the initial error in
providing the incorrect telephone number lies with their agent.
When Lloyds became aware of the claim, Mrs B says she was assured it would be a
seamless transition  between Insurer A and Lloyds,  but I think  its fair to say this was far from
the case. Lloyds seems  to have immediately taken the position  that they would have
repatriated Mrs B, without seeking  advice from their medical team. Lloyds file acknowledges
they didnt have any medical evidence  to support this position and Lloyds didnt seek this
medical information until nearly eight months after Mrs Bs first hospital admission and after
they had already issued a final response  letter  to Mrs B.
I dont think Lloyds communicated  effectively with Mrs B about the outstanding debt after
her repatriation. And I dont think Lloyds  have provided Mrs B with a reasonable level of
assistance which Id expect of an insurer in this case.
Lloyds repeatedly directing Mrs B and the second  hospital to Insurer A wasnt helpful to
Mrs B and Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds kept Mrs B updated about developments, as
they said they would do in their final response letter. In my opinion, Lloyds could have done
much more to actively engage  with the second hospital and other medical  providers over the
two years this situation has been ongoing.
Mrs B has suffered significant  stress  and worry as a result of being chased  for payment of
the outstanding medical  costs. While most  if not all of these  requests seem  to have been
directed to Mrs Bs daughters American  contact details in the first instance,  the information
(including voicemails) was passed  on to Mrs B by her daughter.
Mrs B has also worried  about the situation  impacting on any future  visits to America and
preventing her from seeing her family.
Ive listened to some of the telephone calls Mrs B has had with our investigator and the level
of Mrs Bs distress is very clear. Mrs B has also told us the situation  has affected her health
and her working life and, while  I havent seen any medical evidence  to support this, I have
no doubt Lloyds  actions in this case have  contributed at least in part to the difficulties Mrs B
has experienced.
Overall, I think the impact of how Lloyds  has handled this claim on Mrs B falls into the
category which  this service would  consider  severe. So I intend to recommend that Lloyds
should make  Mrs B a payment of compensation to reflect this.
Mrs Bs additional points
Mrs B has made comments in an email to our investigator dated 18 March  2019 which she
would like answered. Im not obliged to address each  and every  issue Mrs B has raised,  only
those which  I think are relevant to the outcome of the case.
Ref: DRN36851649Having said that, Im conscious of what Mrs B has been through so I want  to answer her
complaint points as fully as possible.  I hope  most  of Mrs Bs concerns will have been
clarified by what is set out in my provisional findings.  But I have yet to address Mrs Bs
concerns about  Lloyds  calculations of the outstanding bills and her wish to be able to
determine how the claim payment from Lloyds is distributed.
My role as an ombudsman is to decide whether I think  Lloyds have  acted fairly  and
reasonably in dealing with Mrs Bs claim.  Ive explained that I dont think  they have. But its
not for me to interfere  with Lloyds rights and responsibilities  beyond  this. Lloyds have the
right to negotiate with the American  medical providers to try and obtain a discount on some
of the bills and this may affect the overall amount which  is outstanding.
I cant make  a recommendation to Lloyds about  the order in which it pays the bills, or direct
Lloyds to involve  Mrs B in their negotiations  to settle the debt. Each  creditor has equal
priority to the money they are owed and I dont  have the power to determine  that any one
creditor should be given  preference over another.
As a final point, Ive already referenced Mrs Bs concerns about the effect  of the situation on
her ability to visit the United States and I believe Mrs B has spoken to an expert about this.
I can understand why Mrs B is worried but this isnt something this service  or Lloyds can
offer her any further assurances  on.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in full.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs that I think  is appropriate.
If I think that fair compensation is more  than £150,000, I may recommend that the business
pays the balance.  But, this recommendation wouldnt form part of any final decision.
Society of Lloyds dont  have to agree to what I recommend and may choose to use the
financial limit of the Financial Ombudsman Service to avoid meeting their obligations under
Mrs Bs policy.
Its unlikely that Mrs B could accept  a final decision and then go to court  to ask for the
balance over £150,000. Mrs B may want to get independent legal advice before deciding
whether to accept  any final decision which may follow.  And Id strongly  urge Mrs B to take
legal advice about the consequences of accepting any such  final decision on;
any personal liability she might  have for outstanding medical bills; and
her ability  to take legal  action against Lloyds and/or Insurer A.
I intend to direct Society of Lloyds to do the following,  up to a maximum of £150,000;
(a)meet or negotiate a reduced settlement on all of Mrs Bs outstanding medical costs 
within three months from the date of any final decision; and
provide confirmation  to Mrs B that they have discharged  her personal liabilities for
these costs in full or, if Society of Lloyds successfully negotiates reduced
settlements with the medical providers, provide confirmation from all the creditors
involved that Mrs Bs personal liability for these costs is discharged;  or
Ref: DRN368516410(b)pay Mrs B £150,000 so she can negotiate  the payment  of the outstanding medical
costs herself.
In addition to the above,  and also subject to the maximum £150,000  limit, I intend  to direct
Society of Lloyds to;
     (c) pay Mrs B hospital benefit  payment for her second  hospital  stay in line with the terms
          and conditions  of her policy and pay her interest at 8% simple per year on this
          amount from the date of her admission  to the second hospital until the date
          settlement is paid.  The interest  payable on the hospital  benefit due to Mrs B is in
          addition to our maximum limit of £150,000;
(d)pay Mrs B £2,500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she has
           experienced.
I intend to recommend that Society of Lloyds pay Mrs B the balance  over £150,000.
Irrespective of their position on my provisional  findings set out above, an employee at the
Society of Lloyds with the power to bind the company should confirm  within  28 days whether
Society of Lloyds intend to agree to accept a recommendation  to pay Mrs B the balance
over £150,000 and which  of (a) or (b) set out above is Society of Lloyds preferred option.
If Society  of Lloyds preferred option  is (b), then an employee of Society of Lloyds with the
power to bind the company should also confirm within  28 days  what  they are prepared  to do
to assist Mrs B with this such as, for example, providing Mrs B with the details  of a cost
containment expert and/or paying  the costs  of such an expert.
Once Society of Lloyds  has set out their response to my provisional decision,  I intend to give
Mrs B the opportunity  to also express  a preference as to how she wants  to proceed.  Ill take
both parties responses  into account  before making  my final decision.
Mrs B responded to my provisional decision with additional comments. In particular,  she said 
she didnt wish to negotiate  the payment of the outstanding medical  costs  herself, and 
wanted written confirmation from Lloyds when  her personal liabilities for her medical costs  
have been discharged. 
Lloyds responded to my provisional  decision with further comments, and also provided 
additional evidence.  In particular, they said the treating doctor  at the first hospital would not 
have had the experience  or qualifications to make recommendations in relation to air 
ambulance repatriation and greater weight  should be given to the evidence  Lloyds provided 
from an air ambulance  provider. Lloyds also said they had numerous discussions with 
medics about Mrs Bs case from when they were made aware  of the case.  
Lloyds say they made numerous attempts to engage with the second hospital  and have  now 
provided evidence  showing  Mrs B was fit to fly when she was repatriated back to the UK. 
Lloyds concluded  by saying they would extinguish Mrs Bs liabilities for her medical costs, 
even if these exceeded £150,000 but said it reserved the right to negotiate and cost contain  
the outstanding bills. Lloyds said they wished to await my final decision about  the payment 
of compensation  to Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN368516411However, Lloyds agent  R contacted Mrs B directly  in January 2020 to say they had paid 
her the £2,500 compensation  mentioned  in my provisional decision. Lloyds has now also 
paid Mrs B her hospital benefit payment, plus interest. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I disagree with Lloyds comments that my provisional decision in any way exonerates Insurer  
A and/or business H. My provisional decision is clear that, when considering  this complaint, I 
can only make findings  about Society  of Lloyds actions  this complaint  isnt about either 
Insurer A or business  H.  
Ive taken into account what Lloyds has said about  the context of the first treating doctors 
comments that Mrs B wasnt fit to fly. Im not aware of this doctors aviation medicine 
qualifications or experience but this doctor  saw and treated Mrs B and this is why I placed 
more weight on this evidence when making my provisional decision.  Lloyds  has now 
mentioned they had numerous discussions with paramedics about the case from when it 
was passed to them. However,  I wasnt  made aware of this or provided with any evidence  of 
this until after Id made my provisional  decision. 
In any event, Lloyds  have now agreed  to extinguish Mrs Bs personal liabilities for her 
medical bills. Lloyds  wrote to Mrs B on 14 January 2020 to say they had reached a 
confidential settlement  agreement  with the second  hospital and were finalising a formal 
release. Lloyds said the other bills owing were being audited and would be cost contained  
and paid, and that they would provide Mrs B with a spreadsheet  in due course showing the 
payments to the various providers. 
I understand Mrs B has concerns about  Lloyds honouring their offer.  But I see no reason to 
doubt what Lloyds  have said and they have recently  written  to Mrs B again to confirm  they 
will pay for the outstanding medical bills, even where these exceed the financial limit of our 
service. 
Id expect Lloyds  to conclude these negotiations within a reasonable period of time, and to 
keep Mrs B updated on their progress.  
Turning to the compensation award  set out in my provisional decision, this was based on the 
evidence which had been provided  to me at the time  and both Lloyds and Mrs B were 
given a number  of opportunities to send us any information they wanted to rely on. 
Based on the new evidence  Lloyds  has provided, Im satisfied Mrs B was fit to fly when she 
was repatriated to the UK. And I also understand  Lloyds says their offer to the second  
hospital was put forward a number  of times and followed-up on numerous occasions. These 
were just two of a number  of factors which I took into account  when making  a provisional 
award of compensation. But, as Lloyds has now paid £2,500  compensation to Mrs B, I dont  
see any reason to change my recommendation.  
Ref: DRN368516412my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs/interest  on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000,  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance. 
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I direct  Society  of Lloyds to do the 
following, up to a maximum  of £150,000;
(a)meet or negotiate a reduced settlement on all of Mrs Bs outstanding medical costs 
and provide written  confirmation to Mrs B that they have discharged her personal 
liabilities for these  costs in full;
(b)pay Mrs B hospital benefit payment for her second hospital stay in line with the terms 
and conditions of her policy and pay her interest at 8% simple per year on this 
amount from the date of her admission  to the second hospital until the date 
settlement is paid1. The interest  payable on the hospital benefit  due to Mrs B is in 
addition to our maximum limit of £150,000;
(c)pay Mrs B £2,500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she experienced. 
I think fair compensation  is more than £150,000, so I recommend  that Society of Lloyds pay 
Mrs B the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Society of Lloyds dont have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my decision and go to court  to 
ask for the balance.  Mrs B may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.   
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If Society of Lloyds considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3685164