K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 
alongside a credit card. Mrs G says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs G says she was completely unaware she had PPI and that it was applied to her account 
without her knowledge or consent. While Im sure what Mrs G has said are her honest 
recollections, the PPI was sold a long time ago  around 16 years ago  which is something 
I have to keep  in mind  when deciding what I think is more  likely to have happened. 
Capital One says the PPI was sold to Mrs G over the phone when she called to activate her 
credit card. Ive seen  a copy of Mrs G credit card application form which shows  Mrs G didnt 
chose to take out PPI at that time.  Ive also seen a screen shot which  states that Capital One 
had a telephone call with Mrs G in November 2003, a few weeks after the credit card 
application was dated, and that PPI was applied  to her account on the same  day as the call. 
And while I dont have a call record to listen to, based on the evidence Ive seen  I think its 
likely the PPI was added to the account  following the call. 
Capital One has supplied a copy of a call script it says wouldve been used for this type of 
call  - and in the absence  of a call recording  or any notes from the call this is the best 
evidence available  of what  is likely  to have happened at the time. This shows that the PPI 
wouldve been presented as optional  and Capital One wouldve explicitly asked Mrs G if she 
wanted the cover. As the PPI was then applied to her account I think  its likely she said yes 
to the policy.    
So based  on what Ive seen, and in the absence of any evidence  to support what  Mrs G has 
said, I think its more likely  than not that Capital One made  it clear  that Mrs G didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Mrs G says she wasnt given any information  about the PPI. And I agree, I think  its likely the 
information Capital  One gave Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  been. But 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  Ive thought  about 
what Mrs G has said about her sick pay and being  able to rely on family  and friends for 
support in the event she was suddenly unable to work. But help from others  cant  always be 
relied upon as their circumstances  can also change. And the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
Ref: DRN3168739212 months  in addition to and for longer than her sick pay wouldve lasted. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including  what she have said about not being 
able to derive any benefit from the policy as she didnt even know  she had it. But as Ive 
outlined above,  I think its likely Mrs G agreed to this cover over the phone. Ive also seen a 
copy of some of Mrs Gs credit card statements from November 2003 onwards. These show 
PPI was listed as a separate entry called Payment Protection Ins  so I think Mrs G 
wouldve asked about this once she saw it on her statements if she didnt remember  what it 
was for or ever agreeing  to it. So this point doesnt change  my decision.
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3168739