K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N are customers of Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). They hold one of its 
Premier Rewards accounts.
The account  gives Mr and Mrs N free membership of a dining society which offers  discounts  
at restaurants across the UK. They have complained that when they tried to claim the 
discount at a restaurant that Barclays had told them would offer one, the restaurant refused. 
They think  Barclays should compensate them for this by refunding them  the amount of the
discount.
background
I previously sent Barclays and Mr and Mrs N a provisional decision on this complaint. That
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and
I explained why I thought  that Barclays should  compensate Mr and Mrs N for the loss of the 
discount. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to
consider before I made  a final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Both parties have told us that they
have nothing further to add and have both accepted my provisional  findings and provisional
decision without further comment.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs N and Barclays  have told us or sent us
throughout the case, but as there is nothing new for me to consider since I sent my
provisional decision, I have reached  the same  conclusions for the same reasons.
Barclays should now put things right by paying Mr and Mrs N compensation.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs N have told us that their bill came to £65.10,  whereas  if they had received the
discount it would have been  £32.55. I havent seen the relevant receipts, but I have no
reason to dispute these figures  and I have taken them  to be accurate.
When we uphold complaints, we normally tell the financial business  concerned  to put things
right for consumers by returning them to the financial position they would have been in if the
business had not made  an error.  In this case, if Barclays  had not made an error with its
information, then it seems likely to me that Mr and Mrs N would have chosen a different
restaurant where the discount would have been available. The exact discount may have
been slightly different,  but I think this difference would probably have been quite small.
Ref: DRN37774212So to put things right for Mr and Mrs N, Barclays should:
refund  them £32.55
add interest to this refund at the rate of 8% (simple)  per year from the date Mr and 
Mrs N visited the restaurant until the date of the refund  (+)
(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays
must give Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for
one.
(I still do not know the exact date of Mr and Mrs Ns visit to the restaurant, although I
believe it was in the first half of 2019.  I assume that Mr and Mrs N will be able to provide the
precise date to Barclays when required).
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, and in my provisional decision,  I am upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ns complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. It should now put things right for them  by 
paying them  the compensation I have described.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37774213Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs N are customers of Barclays. They  hold one of its Premier Rewards  accounts.
The account  gives them free membership of a dining  society which offers  discounts at
restaurants across the UK. They have complained  that when they tried to claim  the discount
at a restaurant  that Barclays had told them would  offer one, the restaurant refused. They
think Barclays  should  compensate them for this by refunding them the amount of the
discount.
background
The adjudicator who looked into Mr and Mrs Ns complaint didnt  recommend that Barclays
should uphold  it. Mr and Mrs N didnt agree  with the adjudicators findings and asked for an
ombudsman to review their case. So it has come  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs N and Barclays have told us or sent us about  the
case and Ive provisionally decided to uphold  it. Ill explain why.
The sequence of events which led to this complaint is not in dispute. In outline, Barclays and
Mr and Mrs N have agreed that it went as follows:
Mr and Mrs N downloaded software from Barclays called  the PremierRewardsApp  onto a 
mobile phone. The software listed restaurants at which they could claim  a discount.
Mr and Mrs N used  the PremierRewardsApp to choose a restaurant which  offered a discount.
They  went  to the restaurant,  bought their meal and tried to claim the discount.
After some initial confusion (before and after the meal), the restaurant  declined to provide the 
discount. It said that it was in an ongoing dispute with the dining society.
Both parties also accept that Mr and Mrs N did not break any of the conditions of use of the 
Premier Rewards account or the PremierRewardsApp.
The crux of the dispute is that Mr and Mrs N believe Barclays gave them misleading
information about the discount  and should pay them compensation  for its mistake, whereas
Barclays has accepted that the information on its PremierRewardsApp was wrong, but it
does not believe  that it made an error. It has described  Mr and Mrs Ns experience as
terrible" but has said that it isnt responsible for it.
It seems to me that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs N to expect  that the information
Barclays gave them through its software would be reliable and reasonably up-to-date.
Barclays website encourages customers to use the PremierRewardsApp to get rewards on
the go which  is exactly what Mr and Mrs N did.
I dont know much about the nature of the dispute between the dining service and the
restaurant and those details  do not concern  me, however  as it was ongoing,  it seems  to me
that Barclays probably had a sufficient opportunity  to put correct information into its
Ref: DRN37774214PremierRewardsApp. I do not know why it didnt  do this. It may have been due to IT
difficulties, or to lack of communication between Barclays, the restaurant and/or the dining
service, or for some other reason. But these issues are for Barclays to investigate  if it so
wishes. They  do not alter the fact that it gave wrong information to Mr and Mrs N.
In correspondence with us, Barclays has pointed out that the terms and conditions for its
Premier Rewards account say that it is not responsible  for providing offers and events
through its services". They also say that it can change the nature, content, location  or
presentation of any event  at anytime " and that it does not guarantee  (services) will always
be available at the stated  times". However, despite these clauses in Barclays terms and
conditions, it still seems  to me that in this case, where  there were  ongoing difficulties, it could
reasonably have prevented the error from happening,  through either better software or better
arrangements for communication with its partners or through  some other solution  at its
disposal.
Barclays has also said that at the time in question the dining services website was also
incorrect and said that the restaurant was offering the discount. I accept this may well be
true, but it doesnt alter the fact that it was Barclays who gave the wrong information  to Mr
and Mrs N through its PremierRewardsApp.
Barclays has also said that it thinks the restaurant and/or the dining service  should  take
responsibility for Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.  However,  Mr and Mrs Ns entitlement  for the
discount came directly  from their relationship with Barclays and it was Barclays information
they used when they tried to claim it. So I think it is fair for them to hold Barclays
responsible.
Barclays should now put things right by paying Mr and Mrs N appropriate compensation.
putting things  right
Mr and Mrs N have told us that their bill came to £65.10, whereas if they had received the
discount it would have been £32.55.  I havent seen the relevant receipts, but I have no
reason to dispute these figures and I have taken  them  to be accurate.
When we uphold complaints, we normally tell the financial business concerned to put things
right for consumers by returning them  to the financial position they would have been in if the
business had not made an error. In this case,  if Barclays  had not made  an error with its
information, then it seems likely to me that Mr and Mrs N would have chosen a different
restaurant where  the discount would have been available. The exact discount may have
been slightly different, but I think this difference would  probably have been quite small.
So to put things right for Mr and Mrs N, Barclays should:
refund them £32.55
add interest to this refund at the rate of 8% (simple) per year from the date Mr and Mrs N 
visited the restaurant  until the date of the refund (+)
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays
must give Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for
one.
(I do not currently  know the exact  date of Mr and Mrs Ns visit to the restaurant,  although I
believe it was the first half of 2019. I assume that Mr and Mrs N will be able to provide the
precise date to Barclays if and when required).
Ref: DRN37774215my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint
against Barclays Bank UK PLC, and to tell it to put things right in the way I have described.
I now invite  both parties to respond  to this provisional  decision by 16 July 2020. I will then
consider any responses  I receive before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3777421