K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that West Bromwich  Building Society (West  Bromwich)  mis-sold her a 
regular premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1999 in connection  with a 
mortgage and again in 2004 in connection with a further advance with West Bromwich.
background
Mrs P complained to this Service.  She said she was complaining  about  a PPI policy sold on 
a mortgage in 1999 and in 2004. West Bromwich  accepted responsibility for the complaint 
about both sales.  
Our adjudicator thought it most likely that as the mortgage was sold in 1999 by an 
intermediary, that they also most  likely  sold the PPI. All sides agree that West Bromwich sold 
the PPI in 2004 to Mrs P. The adjudicator thought that we couldnt consider the 1999 sale 
against West Bromwich so offered no assessment of the merits of that case. The adjudicator 
thought that the 2004 sale was not miss-sold. Mrs P disagreed with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the complaint to be looked at again.  
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 2 July 2019, a copy of which  
is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 2 August 2019.  Both parties told us that they had received the 
provisional decision. West Bromwich told us that they had no further  submissions to make.  
Mrs P made a submission  and told us she was disappointed with the provisional decision. 
Ive considered these  comments  and reviewed  the full file again. Having done so, I am 
proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case. Ive read and considered again  the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide  whats  fair 
in the round.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider circumstances at the time. 
which business sold the PPI In 1999?
I considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments presented  to me, to determine  
whether this Service is able to consider  whether this complaint should be against West 
Bromwich. So I looked  specifically at whether West Bromwich sold the PPI and therefore,  
whether it is responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint for Mrs P.  
Ref: DRN30447032what did Mrs P say about the PPI sale?
Mrs P recalls  receiving no advice or information from either Shipways or West 
Bromwich in relation  to PPI.
what did West Bromwich  say about the PPI sale?
West Bromwich  accepted responsibility for the sale
It sent its file for the sales in 1999 and 2004.
I consider all submissions made  to me, so I have noted the above, but then I turned to the 
documentary evidence  to try to establish  what occurred based on the balance of 
probabilities.
I have looked  very carefully at all the documents  and comments produced by West 
Bromwich. I note that the West  Bromwich mortgage  application from 1999 includes a box 
that can be completed if an intermediary has been involved in bringing the consumer  to the 
lender. In 1999 this box is completed with the details of Shipways. So there is good reason 
for thinking that Shipways  was responsible  for selling the mortgage. 
Section 15 of the mortgage application form is about the Loan Protection Scheme. The 
section includes the following:
A special scheme has been  developed to enable you to meet your monthly mortgage 
repayments if you are off work as a result  of sickness, accident or if you are made 
redundant.
If you want cover under  this scheme,  please tick the box and we will send you an application 
form.  
I note the box has been  ticked and the form is signed and dated 15 January 1999. The 
adjudicator thought that this suggested that the PPI had most likely been discussed  at the 
time the mortgage  application form was completed  and that Mrs P had decided to take the 
cover as a result of something that Shipways  had said as the mortgage  forms were being 
completed. It could  also be the case that the PPI was discussed but that the mortgage  form 
denotes that Mrs P is merely showing an interest  in the PPI at that stage. Subsequently 
West Bromwich  sent Mrs P an application form for the PPI. To get the cover Mrs P had to 
complete that application form. Mrs P did not get the PPI merely  by completing the mortgage 
application form. 
I have seen a copy of the completed application form. It is called Application  for Loan  
Protection. To get the PPI Mrs P had to complete and sign that application  form. The form 
was completed and signed by Mrs P for the cover. The form is dated 26 January 1999. That 
is eleven days after the mortgage  application form was completed. And theres  nothing  on 
the application form to suggest it was applied for through the intermediary. In fact this 
completed application form includes a Branch code  at the top. This suggests it was 
completed at or returned to a branch of West Bromwich.  So whilst not pretending that this is 
a straightforward business, I think it less likely  that Shipways sold the PPI and more  likely 
that, having expressed an interest  in it, West Bromwich then sent information to Mrs P that 
led her to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN30447033So, I think that West Bromwich sold the policy on an information only basis.  And West 
Bromwich also believes  they sold the PPI on an information only basis.  Having  considered 
all of the submissions made  to me in this case, I intend to say that West Bromwich is 
responsible for this PPI sale in 1999  and so it can look at this PPI mis-sale complaint.
In view of the long wait Mrs P has already  experienced in waiting to get to this stage of our 
process, I have reviewed the details that have  been provided and have gone on to look at 
the merits of the complaint about the sales in 1999 and 2004. Having done so, I do not 
intend to uphold the complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold. I explain why below.
  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case. 
Im minded  not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint  and Ill explain why.
Its not clear how the policies were sold. But West Bromwich says that the sales were  non 
advised sales and that seems  to coincide with what Mrs P told us. 
Mrs P told us that the policies were added without  her consent. Ive considered  Mrs Ps 
testimony and the evidence that has been provided  by West Bromwich in order  to decide  
what is most likely  to have happened. To get the cover on both occasions Mrs P had to 
complete PPI applications for them. In 1999  Mrs P signed a completed application for loan 
protection cover which chose the level of cover. In 2004 Mrs P signed a completed  further  
advance form. To get the cover in 2004 Mrs P had to tick a yes box and describe the new 
amount of cover. Both of these things were  done  and Mrs P signed this form which  suggests  
her agreement with its contents.  So, it seems  most  likely that Mrs P agreed to the cover  in 
both sales. 
In 1999, Mrs P completed the application form for the PPI and it was an application that was 
separate to the mortgage application form. So, I think  its most likely that Mrs P knew  that 
she had a choice  about taking the cover or not. In 2004 Mrs P ticked the Yes  box for her 
existing cover to be increased.  There was also a No box on the form. So, I think this is 
something that Mrs P would have known she could say No to. And section 9 of the 
subsequent mortgage offer described the loan protection  as Optional Insurance. So, on 
balance I think that Mrs P agreed  to the cover  each time and did so knowing she had a 
choice about doing so.
West Bromwich  said it sold the policies without a formal recommendation and Mrs P cannot  
recall any advice from the times of sale. So I think it most likely that West Bromwich did not 
recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so it didnt have to make sure it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs P got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for her. Its 
possible that the information West Bromwich  gave Mrs P about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
couldve been. But considering her circumstances  at the time of the sale, I dont  think that 
clearer information about the policy would  have led Mrs P to make a different  decision. 
I say this because  Mrs P was eligible for the policies  and she doesnt appear to have been  
affected by any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the cover the policies offered to 
the extent that she would have avoided the policies  if better  information  had been provided. 
Ref: DRN30447034And having thought about the circumstances of Mrs P at the time, I think she could have 
found the policies useful.  Mrs P told us her sick pay was good initially but that it dropped 
significantly after six months,  such that she may have needed to rely on some savings she 
had. But these policies  wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs P was too ill to work  and 
would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay Mrs P could have relied  on, and it 
would have reduced her reliance on her savings. And it would have  provided  some financial 
protection to Mrs P in the event she lost her job. So thinking about this and the potentially  
serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think  the policy  could 
have been useful for Mrs P if something went  wrong. 
So, having  considered all the submissions  made  in this case,  I dont think  that better 
information about the policy would  have put Mrs P off taking out the two PPI policies.
Mrs P thinks  that because the PPI appears in the mortgage offer, this suggests that the PPI 
was a mandatory requirement of the mortgage.  The mortgage application in which  Mrs P 
showed an interest in PPI is signed  by Mrs P and dated 15 January 1999.  The PPI 
application in which Mrs P chose the PPI is signed by Mrs P and dated 26 January 1999. 
The mortgage offer was signed by Mrs P on 13 February 1999. The mortgage offer post 
dates the documents in which Mrs P decided  to take the policy.  The mortgage offer reflects  
the mortgage and insurances that Mrs P had chosen before that time. So I dont think  it 
suggests that the policy was mandatory, as Mrs P said. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have found no reason 
to depart from my original findings  as set out in my provisional decision and set out above.
my final decision
For all of the reasons  set out above,  and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold, and I make no award against West 
Bromwich Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  29 September 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3044703