K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  with Black 
Horse Limited was not of satisfactory quality. She wants  to be allowed to reject the vehicle.
background
Miss T took out a hire purchase agreement on 5 February 2019. The vehicle was 3 years  old 
at the point of sale and had travelled 17,906  miles. A few days after she acquired the vehicle 
she noticed a problem with the brakes and immediately contacted  the selling dealership.
The dealership booked the vehicle  in for an inspection but before  she took it in she had 
reason to use the windscreen wipers, which she says were faulty and noticed a nail in her 
offside tyre.
The selling dealership found  the brakes to be within the expected standard and the 
windscreen wipers functioning  but agreed  there was a squeal noise on using them. They  
pointed out the nail in the tyre could have occurred any time after purchase.  Miss T 
disagreed and said she had raised a concern about the brakes  to the salesperson at the 
dealership before she accepted the vehicle. Miss T contacted Black Horse as the finance  
company and said she wanted  to reject the vehicle.
Black Horse  looked into Miss Ts concerns and whilst they found only the windscreen  wipers 
to be at fault they supported the dealership to carry out repairs  to the brakes, windscreen 
wipers and replace  the tyre with the nail in it. They  apologised to Miss T and offered her £50 
in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter  had caused.
Miss T didnt agree and so she asked this service to look into matters.  An investigator 
agreed it was disappointing that things had gone  wrong so early on with the vehicle but she 
felt the repairs  had resolved the issues entirely.  She said as they were carried  out at no cost 
to Miss T, the repairs and £50 for trouble  and upset were a fair and reasonable remedy for 
the problems Miss T had encountered and didnt agree  she should be allowed to reject the 
vehicle.
Miss T disagreed. She maintains the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale 
and wants to be allowed  to reject the vehicle  and so she asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, in looking at whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality Ive taken account of relevant 
legislation, which includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015. It says cars are of satisfactory  
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account  all 
of the relevant circumstances, such as (amongst other things)  the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  paid. They should also be fit for purpose. In this case the vehicle was 
supplied was three years old and had travelled 17,906 miles. In order to uphold  the 
Ref: DRN35620842complaint I would need be persuaded  the car was not of satisfactory quality, that is to say, 
there was evidence of an inherent fault at the point of sale and so a breach of the contract 
has taken place. 
The dealership say on inspection the brakes were  within the expected  standard  for the 
vehicles age and distance travelled. They found the windscreen wipers to be functional albeit 
they agreed there was a squeal sound  when in motion. They  didnt agree the nail in the 
offside tyre was the responsibility of the dealership as this could have occurred at any time 
after Miss T acquired the vehicle.
Miss T did the right thing, as soon as she noticed,  what she felt was a problem she 
contacted the dealership. Although the dealership didnt agree with all the concerns Miss T 
raised, they did agree to carry out all the repairs as a good  will gesture and at no cost to 
Miss T. In doing so, they resolved all of the concerns Miss T raised with the vehicle. Miss T 
acquired her vehicle under a hire purchase  agreement. The vehicle shouldve been of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied and if it wasnt then Id think it reasonable to ask Black 
Horse to take further action but this doesnt  automatically mean  Miss T has the right to reject 
the vehicle.
Im persuaded given  the swift action of Miss T in contacting the dealership, the problem with 
the brakes and the wiper blades  were probably  present at the point of sale.  The nail in the 
tyre is less likely as it could reasonably have occurred at any time including whilst in Miss Ts 
possession. 
I think it is useful, at this point, to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended 
to punish businesses for their conduct. Instead, this service looks to resolve  individual  
complaints between a consumer  and a business.  Should we decide that something has gone 
wrong we would ask the business  to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have  been  if the problem hadnt occurred.
Im persuaded, on balance, the issues with the vehicle are of a wear and tear nature 
commensurate with a three year old vehicle, rather than an inherent  defect.  So Im satisfied 
the fair and reasonable remedy  was one of repair which has fully resolved the issues. To 
allow rejection of the vehicle would I believe would be disproportionate in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  If, of course the repairs were unsuccessful Miss T would have the right to 
raise this with Black  Horse again. I further  agree  that £50 compensation in recognition  of the 
trouble and upset  caused is reasonable given BlackHorse supported  both the repairs  it 
accepted responsibility for and those it didnt,  as a good will gesture  at no cost to Miss T.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35620843
Ref: DRN3562084