K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about Guarantee Protection  Insurance Limited (GPI)  rejection of his 
claim under a warranty it provides for his double glazing installation  windows and doors.
Mr W would  like GPI to pay for the emergency  repair of his porch  door and fully repair it and 
the rest of his doors  and windows.
background
Mr W had doors and windows installed by a local double glazing company (hereafter  
referred to as the installer).  It provided him with a ten year guarantee for the works it 
completed. This was in 2011.  The terms and conditions of the contract  Mr W signed with the 
double glazing company stated that:
On receipt of payment in full, the Customers uPVC installation will be guaranteed for 
10 years  against watertightness and discolouration. The double  glazed units  are guaranteed 
for 5 years and parts and labour for 1 year.
Following the installation, Mr W was also sent a policy schedule for the guarantee by GPI. 
This said that the insurer indemnified Mr W for the cost of making good defective 
workmanship and/or  faulty materials in the installation if the installer  had ceased  trading and 
was unable to honour the terms of the guarantee it had given to its customers. The warranty 
specifically excludes  anything that wouldnt have been covered under the installers 
guarantee or that had been caused  by wear and tear.
The installer officially dissolved in February 2017. From that point on GPI became 
responsible for dealing  with any claims made  under the guarantees that it had issued.
Mr W has said that the installer attended to the porch door twice before it went  out of 
business. 
In the June 2017 Mr W made a claim under the warranty. The telephone  note of his 
conversation with GPI says he reported  that the porch door was difficult to lock, the 
bathroom window  wouldnt shut, a bedroom  window was catching and both the front door 
and French doors had dropped.
As the porch  door wouldnt  lock, GPI agreed that Mr W should have it repaired immediately 
for security reasons. The company  that did this repair  said on its invoice that the door was 
not locking and the frame  was catching  on the opening door sash. It repacked the hinge and 
adjusted it. It confirmed  that the door was locking,  but the top hinge seemed to be moving 
and allowing the top section of the door to catch on the frame.  It pointed out that the existing 
frame was in one piece and ideally  it should be in three to give extra strength to the hinge 
side of the door. 
When Mr W returned the claim  form, he said that the porch door couldnt shut or lock before 
the repair was done.
GPI sent out a surveyor to assess the problems. He reported:
All problems  are every day issues that are very common  in windows and doors  of this age. 
Porch door has been adjusted to its maximum  and still catches very slightly  on the top keep 
Ref: DRN39659372of the door frame.  French doors have both dropped  and need lifting, hinges  on bathroom 
window have failed  due to age and moisture in the hinge, also handle  needs replacing as the 
p/h has had to use excessive force to close the window the handle has started  to foul on the 
frame. Bedroom window  sash needs lifting to stop it found, in the bottom keep when closing. 
GPI declined  Mr Ws claim as the guarantee from the installer  wouldnt have covered the 
problems that had been identified with the doors and windows. Mr W didnt accept this and 
referred his complaint to this service.  He provided a quote taken from the installers website 
which said that it provided a ten year guarantee on everything. He also said that the 
windows and doors werent watertight.
Following receiving confirmation from this service  that Mr W wanted us to consider his 
complaint, GPI asked  him to provide  photographs  of the areas where he was experiencing 
water ingress. Mr W informed this service that the porch door wouldnt close or lock. 
Mr W responded by telling GPI that the porch  door and frame  were uPVC down to the floor,  
which was lino. As such, he wasnt able to provide photographic evidence of water ingress. 
He said the same in relation to the bathroom window because the walls were tiled. He did, 
however, point to the repair report in relation to the porch door which, prior to repair, hadnt 
been able to be closed. In addition,  he considered  that a window which  couldnt  be closed 
without excessive force, as the surveyor had described it, would not be watertight.
GPI repeated that the defects reported  were  failure  of hinges/handles  due to normal  day to 
day usage and age. As the parts and labour were only covered under the guarantee for one 
year, there wasnt a valid claim. In relation  to the porch, it said that it not locking was a 
security issue  and didnt  demonstrate that it wasnt watertight. As Mr W hadnt been  able to 
provide any evidence that the doors and windows werent watertight, it declined the claim 
again.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She didnt recommend that it be upheld.  
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view and asked for his complaint  to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr W reiterated that he purchased  windows and doors  with a 10 year 
guarantee on everything, which  was insurance backed. He asked that it be considered  what  
insurance he has paid for and what he actually gets for his money.
Mr W also said that it was normal for insurance  to cover items on the basis  it had only had 
fair wear and tear. However,  in this case that is excluded and everything appears to fall 
under this category. He suggested  that even with fair wear and tear, given there  is a ten year 
guarantee, his windows  and doors  should be expected to last for at least  that length of time.  
In addition, Mr W again highlighted that the porch  door had already been repaired twice  by 
the installer. This would  have been  under  the guarantee.  So as that fault had been dealt with 
under the guarantee,  given the nature of all of the issues,  would it not imply that they are all 
covered under the guarantee?  He also pointed out that it was accepted that the bathroom  
window couldnt  be closed in the normal manner that would be expected, thereby leaving 
window open  and vulnerable to the elements.
I considered this complaint and issued a provisional  decision on 11 December  2018.  In that 
document I explained  my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.  Below is an excerpt  of 
that decision. 
Ref: DRN39659373Mr W has said that when he purchased his doors and windows he was led to believe that he 
the guarantee he received  was for ten years and covered everything.  As such,  his claim 
should be paid.  I can understand where Mr W is coming from when saying this and the 
information he has provided from the installers advertising would likely lead a consumer  to 
that conclusion.  However,  that isnt what the guarantee he was given actually says is 
covered. 
Mr W has asked  what he has paid for, if his claim isnt covered. The warranty  Mr W has 
wasnt purchased  directly by him. Rather  the installer would have purchased warranties  from 
GPI and then provided them  to its customers as part of the package of service.  So whilst the 
cost of the warranty may well have  been  factored into the cost of his window and door 
installation, it wasnt a discreet cost that Mr W paid.  
In his later submissions Mr W said that it was normal for a reasonable degree of wear  and 
tear to be covered under insurance policies.  There may be some policies that do cover  this, 
but many  dont. All of the buildings  and contents policies I have seen  over the years have all 
excluded claims that were due to wear and tear. In addition, an insurer  is able to decide what 
risks it is willing to take  if it doesnt want to provide cover, it doesnt have to.
Whilst it appears Mr W may have been misled  by the installer, I cant  ask GPI to cover  a 
guarantee that never existed. GPI covers only what was in the written  guarantee. The only 
cover still available  to Mr W at the time of the claim was for discolouration and 
weathertighness. So unless I find that the faults  he has claimed  for reasonably fall within 
either of these categories, I wont be able to uphold his complaint.
Mr W has also said that the porch door was repaired twice by the installer  before it went out 
of business (by adjusting  the hinges), as such it is reasonable that the problem falls within  
the guarantee. I can again see the logic in this. However, the guarantee Mr W was given 
would now only cover a problem with this or any other door if it failed to be watertight. If the 
installer completed repairs outside  of the strict  terms of the guarantee that would have been 
to Mr Ws benefit,  but I cant require GPI to do the same.
I must, therefore, consider whether the evidence  provided indicates that Mr Ws windows 
and doors  are no longer watertight. Mr W hasnt  suggested that the French  doors, front door 
or bedroom window arent watertight. So I see no need to consider these items further. The 
remaining items to consider are the bathroom window and the porch  door. 
At the time of the claim the bathroom window was able to close,  but the failing hinges meant 
that excessive  force was needed  to do so. It was also noted  in the surveyors  findings  that 
the hinges were  failing because of wear and tear. I have considered  what  Mr W has said 
about this window, but the information  I have  is that at the time of the claim, although more  
difficult than it should have been, it could  be closed and when it was, it was watertight. So 
the window was watertight and the repair  that was needed was due to wear and tear, which  
isnt something that is covered under the warranty. I dont  consider that there was a valid 
claim for this window.
In the telephone notes  associated with the original claim it doesnt  say that Mr W told GPI 
that the porch door wouldnt close. However, the problem with it closing was included  in his 
claim following the emergency repairs. Mr W has repeated that the door wouldnt close  when 
he has corresponded with this service. If that was indeed the case, then I would conclude 
that the door wasnt watertight and GPI would  need to pay for the emergency repair Mr W 
had completed,  as this resulted in the door closing and becoming watertight. However, I note 
Ref: DRN39659374that the repairer doesnt mention that the door needed repairing  because it wouldnt close, 
but only that it needed adjusting because when it was closed it wouldnt lock. 
Where there are varying versions of a situation, I must make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities as to what is most likely. Mr W doesnt  seem to have initially reported a problem 
with the door closing  and the repairers comments are in line with this. I am not persuaded, 
on balance, that the door didnt close when Mr W made his claim. As such, I cant  find that it 
wasnt and isnt watertight  such that it would fall for repair under the warranty.  
I know that these conclusions will disappoint Mr W, but I am afraid that the warranty he has 
provides very limited cover for his doors and windows beyond the first year. I cant hold GPI 
responsible if he was led to believe otherwise by the installer.  I havent  seen  any evidence 
that GPIs  decision not to accept the claim was wrong in this case.
GPI didnt  respond to my provisional  decision  and, as such, I assume  that it accepted my 
conclusions.
Mr W said that he was very disappointed with my decision and disagreed with it. He said that 
he had come to the conclusion  that he had purchased an insurance  policy  that covers very 
little and was mis-sold  to him. He asked that we consider whether he was mis-sold the 
warranty. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has asked  that I consider whether the policy was mis-sold. I am unable  to do so under 
this complaint reference. This is because in order for me to be able to consider any 
complaint, the business being  complained about must first have the opportunity  to respond 
to the complaint and has a period of time in which to do so. As such, Mr Ws new complaint 
doesnt yet fall within my remit  to consider.  
Neither party has made any further  submissions on the merits of the complaint I can 
consider. As such, I see no reason to change my conclusions. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 February 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3965937