K820x#14complaint
Mr C, a director of a limited company T, has complained  on behalf of T about  The National 
Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  (NFU). It provided a commercial  insurance 
policy for Ts business and declined a claim Mr C had made to it under that policy  for 
poly- tunnels damaged during a storm.
background
An NFU agent  met with Mr C in 2015  and reviewed  the cover being  provided. Mr C says the 
agent told him all eventualities were  covered  for by the policy  provided for T. 
The cover in place  renewed around  the same  time as the meeting. Paperwork confirming the 
cover in place was sent to Mr C. The cover renewed again in 2016  and 2017, with 
documents being sent in February 2018 for the upcoming renewal in March.
Shortly before renewal in March 2018,  Mr C contacted NFU to make a claim for damage to 
poly-tunnels used by T. NFU advised Mr C that the policy  held by T didnt offer cover for 
buildings. It noted  it had previously provided  cover for another  of Mr Cs businesses at the 
same location, and that had included cover for buildings. However, during the review in 2015 
NFUs agent had made handwritten notes  that suggested the cover  for poly-tunnels had 
been discussed and a note had been made that, whilst these belonged to the other  
business, even  the other  business policy didnt provide cover for them.
Mr C was adamant that hed been  told in 2015  that everything was covered. He believed  
NFU had misled him. He said hed spoken  to the agent concerned  and hed said he couldnt 
remember the discussion that had taken place.  Mr C said the damaged  tunnel meant Ts 
business was suffering  with its output,  and therefore, income being affected.  When  NFU 
wouldnt change its position  Mr C complained to us.
Our investigator felt it wasnt  clear  exactly what was discussed during the meeting in 2015. 
But noted that the renewal documents Mr C had been sent were clear.  He didnt think  NFU 
had misled T. 
Mr C said NFU had failed  to provide the cover that its agent had agreed to at the meeting. 
Mr C said it was telling that he could remember the meeting content vividly whilst the agent 
had said he didnt recall  it. He felt it should be accepted that NFU can make  mistakes and 
that he expected an ombudsman to review this with fresh eyes.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment this causes Mr C, and whilst Ive reviewed  his complaint 
with an open mind, I dont  intend  to uphold it. 
I dont doubt Mr Cs recollection of the meeting in 2015. But it isnt persuasive proof which  
allows me to conclude what most likely  happened. Not least because his recollection of 
events wasnt expressed until three  years  after the event, and only after damage  had been  
found which NFU had declined liability for. Mr C clearly  thought  there was cover   but that 
doesnt mean he was lead to that conclusion by any failure of NFUs agent.
Ref: DRN37150312Furthermore, it would  seem an unusually bland and wide ranging thing for an agent  to say  
everything is covered . Particularly  in light of the quite  limited policy  that was put in place for 
T. And there are the agents hand-written notes to consider from that time too. 
Due to the very nature  of on-site meetings  it is difficult to know  for sure what  occurred. But 
for me to uphold  this against NFU,  I have to be satisfied that a lack of cover for T most  likely 
came about  because of some failure  by NFU.   I dont doubt  that is a possibility. But its also a 
possibility that Mr C is mistaken in his recollection, that maybe  hes forgotten  some  parts  of 
the conversation  and/or  that he misunderstood  something. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr C is busy and puts his trust in the people he does business with 
to act as agreed, the policy paperwork is produced by NFU to confirm the details of the 
contract in place. The policy paperwork is clear about what cover  was in place for T  and 
that didnt include  any cover for structures/buildings. 
Im not persuaded that NFU misled Mr C on behalf of T as to what  cover  was in place for T. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably uphold this complaint against it. 
Whilst I know Ts business is suffering, as Im not upholding  this complaint against NFU, 
I cant reasonably blame it for that loss. Im aware  Mr T is unhappy about how long NFU took 
to answer his complaint and that it didnt speak to him first. But Im also aware that NFU 
offered £100 compensation  for that (which it accepted was a failing by it). As Im not 
persuaded that NFU failed T in what it said about his claim, Im not going to require it to pay 
any compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3715031