K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about his contracts for differences (CFD) trading account with IG Markets 
Limited. He says it shouldnt have let him open  the account in the first place given his lack of 
experience trading CFDs. And he says problems with the third party software he used to 
trade his account  led to larger  losses  than he would otherwise have suffered.
background
He traded over the subsequent years, making losses  of around €50,000 in both 2016 and 
2017. In 2018 he complained to IG, saying:
He shouldnt have  been allowed to open  an account.
He used software called ProRealTime (PRT) to trade.  According  to PRT his 2017  
losses were only around  €15,000   so he didnt know why IG was saying they were  
much higher.
He used trading  techniques which involved particular  indicators, including pivot  
points. These were calculated differently in PRT compared to IGs own platform. He 
said using the wrong  data contributed  to his losses.
One of our investigators  looked into things, and didnt think IG had done  anything wrong. He 
thought IG had done the right thing  by warning Mr P the account  might be inappropriate for 
him. But Mr P wanted to proceed,  and IG shouldnt be held responsible for that. And he said 
IGs terms made it clear it didnt take responsibility for third party software, so any problems  
Mr P had with PRT werent IGs fault either.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide  the matter.  
He said IG should  have warned him PRT calculated  things  differently to its own platform.  
And he said prices updated more  quickly  on PRT than IGs platform  meaning positions  
were closed which otherwise wouldnt have done.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
The rules  say IG needed to ask Mr P questions to find out if the account  was 
appropriate for him. These questions had to let IG decide whether he had enough  
knowledge and experience to understand the risks of CFD trading. IG asked Mr P 
questions, and concluded the account  wasnt appropriate for him.
In those circumstances, the rules  say IG has to warn Mr P, which  it did. But it could still 
allow him to open  an account if he said he wanted to, having  regard  to all the 
circumstances. Like our investigator, I dont think it was unreasonable for IG to have 
opened Mr Ps account given  the circumstances.
I say this because  Mr P had told IG he was employed and had some  savings,  and hed 
said he wanted to open the account and trade. There may be factors  which may have 
meant IG would still decline to open  an account even though Mr P wanted  to. But I 
cant see that he told IG anything which ought to have given it pause or led it to refuse 
Mr P an account. In the circumstances  I dont think that was unfair or obviously against 
Mr Ps best interests for IG to have  let him trade  CFDs.
Ref: DRN39182802The heart of Mr Ps complaint concerns the software he used  to trade  his IG account  
PRT. IGs terms say it isnt responsible  for the performance of such  software, and its 
up to Mr P to ensure he understands how it works.
I dont think its quite  as simple as that, though. While PRT is provided by a third party, 
its advertised on IGs website. IG has a webpage  about PRT  giving its customers a 
list of reasons why they should use it.
Where IG effectively  promotes and endorses the use of software  in conjunction with its 
own platform, I think it ought to ensure IG itself understands how it works. And that IG 
ensures any information  it gives its clients about the software is fair, clear, and not 
misleading. 
To be clear, Im not suggesting  IG ought  to have described all the features of the 
software to Mr P, nor do I think its necessarily IGs responsibility if Mr P didnt fully 
understand all its functions.
But IG described PRT as something  that was integrated with its own systems. Using  
the normal meaning of the word, I think Mr P would have understood that PRT was 
linked or coordinated with IGs own systems. His complaint, in essence is that it 
wasnt. He argues the pricing, technical  indicators  and profit  data worked differently in 
PRT. So Ive had to determine whether, on balance, I agree that was the case.
IG has provided a detailed and consistent  explanation of how PRT integrates with its 
own systems.  I find its testimony to be plausible and persuasive. While PRT offers 
different features and functions  to IGs own systems,  it uses the same prices as IG and 
sends orders to the same execution venue.  
With regard to prices updating  differently, it is hard for me to say with any certainty 
what may have caused Mr P to observe this sort of thing. It may be to do with his 
internet speed.  But Im satisfied IG sends the same prices at the same time to both its 
own platform and PRT. And so I dont think any issues  Mr P had in relation  to this 
particular issue are anything that was within IGs reasonable ability  to control  or 
something it ought to be held responsible  for. 
The pivot  points and other technical indicators Mr P has referenced  can be calculated 
in different ways.  And the prices used to calculate them can also vary depending on 
whether the bid, ask or mid-price  is used. As Ive said, Im not persuaded PRT used a 
different pricing  source than IGs own platform.  So I think its more likely than not that 
any difference in pivot point levels  Mr P observed  was a result of the settings and 
calculation method hed selected  in PRT, rather than any fundamental difference  in 
system which IG should have told him about.
Mr Ps also said PRT vastly underestimated  his losses. Here  again its possible that 
the settings Mr P had enabled in PRT led to his account balance showing in a 
particular way which didnt give the full picture of his running losses.  From  my 
understanding his balance  ought  to have shown  the same figure  on both IGs platform 
and PRT.
In any event, I note that Mr P would have received statements from IG every day he 
traded  showing his actual  account balance. And his account  history was available on 
IGs website too. If there were a discrepancy, Id therefore have expected  Mr P to 
Ref: DRN39182803notice and raise it at a very early stage.  Ive also seen nothing to suggest the losses he 
had suffered  while greater  than hed expected  were wrong or otherwise not 
reflective of his actual  trading activity.
Overall I have sympathy for the situation Mr P finds himself in. I can see hes lost a lot 
of money trading and feels very strongly  about  his complaint. But for the reasons Ive 
given Im not currently persuaded anything IG did wrong contributed  to his losses. So I 
dont intend to tell IG to pay him anything. 
IG didnt have anything  to add to my provisional findings. But Mr P didnt agree with what  Id 
said.
He told us he hadnt changed any of the settings on PRT, and explained  his internet 
connection and computer setup were top-of-the-range, making it unlikely that was the cause 
of any problems hed had. He maintained that technical indicators like pivot  points were  
calculated differently on PRT compared  to IGs native  platform. And that this difference was 
intrinsic to the way the different platforms worked, as well as being a difference he wasnt 
made aware  of. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Mr P raised in response  to my provisional decision carefully. 
Having done so, while I know it will be disappointing to Mr P, Ive still not been  persuaded IG 
treated him unfairly.
Regarding his internet connection speed, Id like to clarify I didnt intend to suggest this was 
definitely the cause of differences  Mr P noted between prices  on PRT as compared  to IGs 
platform. It was simply one possibility. As I said in my provisional decision, I cant  say for 
certain what differences Mr P saw or what caused them.  But Ive considered IGs 
explanation of how the platforms  work and have viewed both PRT and IGs own platform.
Im still persuaded  that the platforms use identical pricing feeds and execution.  So I dont 
think Mr Ps trading could  materially have  been impacted by using one platform  over the 
other.
Mr Ps other points relate  mainly to the way certain  indicators are calculated on the two 
platforms. I dont doubt Mr P when he says he used PRTs default settings, and its possible 
they differ from the default settings  on IGs platform.
But while I said in my provisional decision that IG ought to have ensured  it understood how 
PRT worked and communicated to Mr P about  it in a clear  and not misleading way, I dont 
think it was responsible for instructing  him about how it worked  or explaining  any differences 
between PRT and IGs own platform.
Im satisfied that the calculation mechanisms were the same across the two platforms, and 
as Ive said that both used  the same price  feeds. So any differences  would  therefore  be due 
to the way a given instrument, chart or indicator was set up. Understanding the functions and 
settings of the platforms is a responsibility that I consider lay with Mr P, not IG.
Ref: DRN39182804Mr Ps raised concerns about the market closing time thats used to calculate pivot points. I 
think hes right to note that different, but similar, markets  have  different closing times.  For 
example the cash  market  for certain  stock indexes as compared to the futures markets on 
the same  indexes.
But Ive not seen any persuasive  evidence  that a given markets closing time (and therefore 
the data used to calculate  a pivot point) would vary simply based on whether Mr P was using 
PRT or IGs own platform.
Where IGs derivative products are open for trading  even when underlying markets are 
closed, I can understand  why Mr P might want clarification on what  time IG used in 
calculating pivots.  But thats something  he could have asked IG about if he wasnt sure. And, 
as I understand  it, whatever time was used would  be the same on PRT or on IGs platform. 
Given the difference between the platforms is at the heart of Mr Ps complaint, Im therefore 
not persuaded that this is likely to have  made  a difference to his trading  profits  or losses.
So in summary,  Im still not persuaded IG misled Mr P about how its platform or PRT 
worked. And Ive not seen any evidence which suggests either platform  encountered  issues 
which were a result of faults  or errors on IGs part. So while  Im sorry to hear of Mr Ps 
trading losses, I dont think theyre  something IG ought reasonably to be held responsible  
for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3918280