K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has caused  him a lot of distress 
and financial  difficulties  having said it will close his account. He also complains that RBS 
stopped his online banking and is sending him threatening and harassing letters.
background 
Mr C has a current account  and a savings account  with RBS.
In February 2019  Mr C received a letter from RBS saying that it was going  to close  his 
accounts as their relationship had broken down. Mr C was very unhappy  about  the letter and 
about the fact that he couldnt access his online  banking after he received it. He says he had 
a lot of problems as a result of RBSs actions   for example, he received a letter from a third 
party about  a missing home insurance  payment  and that he had to open  an account with 
another bank  which wasnt  straightforward. He then received a letter  from RBS saying that 
the letter about closing his accounts had been sent in error.  Mr C complained to RBS and 
then to us saying that he was a vulnerable and disabled adult whod been treated unfairly.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint. They thought  that RBS had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions but hadnt made  it clear that his online banking  would be 
withdrawn straightaway.  Our investigator  thought  that RBS should  have considered  the 
impact of this on Mr C more carefully  given  his vulnerabilities. Our investigator  also thought 
that RBS hadnt  been  clear enough about whether Mr Cs accounts were closed or not. Our 
investigator recommended RBS pay Mr C £250  in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.  Both parties disagreed. RBS said that Mr C had been rude 
and abusive to staff so it would have been  within its rights to close his accounts.  Mr C said 
that RBSs actions had caused him financial ruin and significant distress and inconvenience.
I issued a Provisional  Decision saying that RBS should pay Mr C £250 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  hed been  caused.  At that stage  RBS hadnt sent me the 
evidence I needed  to decide whether its original decision to close Mr Cs accounts  was 
justified or not. So, I asked RBS to do that when it replied to my Provisional Decision. Mr C 
had at that stage  also made it clear that he didnt want to step into an RBS branch again.
RBS accepted my Provisional Decision and sent me evidence that it had changed  its mind  
about closing  Mr Cs accounts because it hadnt  taken  his vulnerabilities into account. RBS 
didnt, however, have  a record of why this meant it had changed its mind  or what lessons it 
had learnt  to make sure its relationship with Mr C going forwards was a more positive one. 
RBS subsequently offered to write off Mr Cs overdraft and pay him £250 in compensation 
on the basis that his current  and savings  accounts  would be closed. Mr C was happy for his 
accounts to be closed but wasnt  happy  with the compensation  Id suggested or RBSs offer. 
He said that RBS should write off his overdraft and pay him £1,000  in compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that RBS and Mr C have had a difficult relationship for several years  its likely  
that Mr Cs disabilities and vulnerabilities have been a contributing factor. It isnt, therefore, 
helpful that RBS doesnt  have a detailed record of why it changed  its mind  about closing 
Ref: DRN37242072Mr Cs accounts or lessons that it learnt  when it decided to reverse that decision.  I would  
have expected RBS to have thought  about what it might need to do differently. Both parties  
have, however, now agreed  that it would be better if they didnt have an ongoing  
relationship. So Im only going to decide  what impact RBS closing Mr Cs accounts has had 
on Mr C, and what compensation, if any, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive spoken to Mr C at length about  the problems hes had as a result  of RBSs decision to 
close his accounts,  and the confusion  RBS changing its mind  has caused. Im satisfied that it 
has caused Mr C a lot of problems. Hes had to open a new bank account, for example, and 
thats not been straightforward. Hes only been able to open  a basic account, and hes still 
not been able to get an overdraft. Had RBS not decided to close his accounts, he wouldnt 
have had to open a new account or worry about not being able to get an overdraft.  Hes also 
received letters he considers  threatening and harassing. But Im also satisfied that Mr C 
could have done more to help himself. His current account is open but no payments are 
going out as its over its overdraft limit. Thats caused problems. But had Mr C paid money 
into his account,  bringing it back down under its limit, payments would have started  going out 
again. I accept  that Mr C has found  it harder to monitor his account  because his online 
banking has been  removed, but hes aware his account is overdrawn and by how much.  
RBS has also told Mr C what he needs to do in order to reactivate his online banking  and 
Ive spoken to him about this too. In short, RBS isnt solely responsible  for every problem 
that Mr C has experienced.
 
Mr Cs account was approximately  £500 overdrawn when he last used it  since then RBS 
has added  approximately  £70 in interest  and charges. RBS says it was entitled  to add 
interest and charges  Mr C says it wasnt. I dont agree  with RBS or Mr C  some  of the 
charges would have been  incurred whether RBS chose to close  Mr Cs accounts or not (for 
example, some of the arranged overdraft fees) and others might not have been incurred had 
Mr C been able to see what was happening with his accounts. More importantly, given the 
difficult relationship  between the parties, I think the overdraft should be written off and Mr Cs 
accounts closed.  So, Im going to take the amounts involved into account when deciding  
what additional compensation,  if any, RBS should  pay in addition to the £250 it has offered.
Had I been awarding Mr C compensation for the impact of RBSs  decision, taken everything 
hes told me into account, I would have awarded him £800 in total. So, Im going to require  
RBS to write  off Mr Cs overdraft, close his accounts and pay him £300 in compensation. In 
addition, Im going to require  RBS to remove adverse information  if any  that it wouldnt 
be fair to record on Mr Cs credit file. Ill explain what I mean by that next.
Ref: DRN37242073RBS agreed to suspend  collection  activity on Mr Cs account when I got involved  it had just 
served a default  notice  when it did so. I dont think it would be fair in this case for RBS to 
record a default  against Mr Cs credit file. I do, however, think  it would be fair for RBS to 
record the fact that Mr C has been  over his overdraft limit since  March 2019 and  assuming 
Mr C accepts my decision  that his overdraft  has been repaid  in full should  RBS wish to do 
so. Im, therefore, going to require RBS to remove any default it has recorded   assuming it 
has done so  and to make sure that Mr Cs credit  file shows, at worse,  that hes been over 
his overdraft limit since March 2019 and that the overdraft has now been repaid in full.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc in full and final settlement 
of this complaint:
a)to write off Mr Cs overdraft;
b)to remove any default it has recorded  on Mr Cs credit file  assuming it has done  so 
 so that his credit file shows at worse that hes been over his overdraft limit since 
March 2019 and his overdraft has now been repaid in full;
c)to close his accounts; and 
d)to pay Mr C £300 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3724207