K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2010 during an internet application.  Mr C says Barclays Bank Plc  trading as Egg 
(Egg)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
Mr C was previously  represented by a claims management company (CMC) who put forward  
a standardised  and legalistic set of complaint points and arguments, which we responded to. 
Mr C has since  left the services of this CMC  and has chosen to pursue his complaint directly.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  As Mr C wasnt  happy about  this, his 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision (I have added a copy  of it to 
the bottom  of this decision) in June 2019,  in which I explained I also didnt consider the 
complaint should  be upheld.  But I asked  for Mr C and Barclays  to come  back with any further 
information and comments.
Barclays responded to say it had received my provisional decision but didnt have anything 
further to add. 
Mr C responded and made the following comments:
The information about the policy wasnt clear  and it gave the impression you had to 
take it and it was in your best interest. 
The wording was mis-leading and confusing.
He had thought he hadnt  added it and only realised later that he had which  is when 
he cancelled it. 
He has never had any time off work, so he wouldnt have taken  it because  it wasnt  
any benefit to him.
I will now consider the complaint again  in light of Mr Cs comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Having done this, Im still not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr C has said in response to my provisional decision. 
And Ive looked  again at the screenshots Mr C is likely to have seen during the application 
process. Applicants were  given a brief description of what  the PPI would cover and then 
asked yes I want to protect my repayments or no, I understand it is my responsibility to 
keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my job. These statements are clear  and there 
is nothing in them that suggests  you have  to take the PPI. So, I think  Egg made  the choice 
clear. 
Mr C says the PPI wasnt any benefit  to him because hed never needed to take any time off 
work. Taking  an insurance  policy covers people for the worst case scenario. It is not always 
the case that they will need to use a policy, but it gives them  the security of knowing its 
Ref: DRN37858872there should they need to. So although  Mr C has never had any time off work,  doesnt mean 
the PPI was mis-sold. 
So Mr Cs comments  dont change my decision and I still think  Mr C hasnt lost out by 
anything Egg might  have  done wrong  to the extent that he should get back everything he 
paid for PPI. 
But Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
When the policy was sold,  Egg expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr C about that. 
Because Egg didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Egg has basically offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Egg has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Egg should also pay back to Mr C any extra  interest Mr C paid because 
of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr C the difference  between 
what Mr C owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Mr C 8%* simple  interest  if Mr C 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN37858873But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a credit card in 
2010 during an internet  application. Mr C says Barclays Bank  Plc  trading as Egg (Egg)  mis-sold 
him the PPI.
Ref: DRN37858874Mr C was previously represented by a claims  management company (CMC) who put forward  a 
standardised and legalistic set of complaint points and arguments, which  we responded to. Mr C has 
since left the services of this CMC and has chosen to pursue his complaint directly.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr C says the policy was sold online and via a telephone call. Egg says the policy was sold online at 
the same time Mr C took out his credit card. And the card was active  during a telephone call. Egg has 
provided account  details that show the PPI being  added to the account  at the same time the credit 
card application was accepted. So I think the policy was sold online.  
Whatever way the policy was sold, Egg shouldve made Mr C aware he had a choice about buying the 
PPI. Mr C has said he wasnt aware the PPI had been  added. 
Egg has explained the sales process and given us screenshots of how the PPI wouldve been shown 
to Mr C at the time of the sale. I have  no reason  to think  Mr C wouldve seen something different. So 
Ive looked carefully at these screenshots and I can see Mr C wouldve been  given a choice to select  
yes or no to buy the policy.  The process wouldve required an option to be selected before an 
applicant couldve moved on to the next section. And the fact the PPI was added  to Mr Cs account  
makes me think its more  likely he selected the yes option.
So, I think Egg made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand why he doesnt  remember  this.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt  have to check if it was right for him. But it did have 
to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Looking at the screenshots, its possible the information Egg gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mr C says he had sick pay 
benefits from his employer. But the policy wouldve paid out alongside his sick pay and for longer. It 
would have also covered  him if he lost his job. So I think it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. Which  means  Egg doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Egg will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
When the policy was sold, Egg expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share  (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Egg didnt tell Mr 
C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Egg has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said  including what hes said about  the fact he had savings 
he could use if he wasnt able to make his repayments. Having the policy  would have meant he could  
have used his savings to cover other essential costs if he was too unwell to work or became 
unemployed. So this point doesnt change my decision.
what the business needs to do
Ref: DRN37858875Egg has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share  it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. Egg should also pay back to Mr C any extra interest Mr C paid because  of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr C the difference between what Mr C 
owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. Egg should  also pay Mr C 8%* simple interest if Mr C paid off his credit card at 
some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN3785887