K820x#14complaint
Miss L is unhappy regarding the charges applied by Lloyds Bank Plc to her account  for 
overdraft fees and interest.
background
Miss L says Lloyds is treating her unfairly  by applying charges to her bank account for 
overdraft fees and interest and cant meet the demand put on her to repay these. Miss L 
says she is experiencing financial difficulties and reported this to Lloyds in a complaint. 
Lloyds say they are only able to consider charges  applied in the last six years  between 
November 2012  and November 2018. Lloyds say they have totalled these charges at 
£1,654.97. Lloyds say they are unable to refund  these as Miss L had agreed to pay these 
when she set up the overdraft. Lloyds say the cost of the overdraft is within the terms and 
conditions and it is Miss Ls responsibility  to manage  her account and plan her finances.
Miss L says Lloyds had stopped further  charges  until January 2019  and offered a gesture of 
goodwill. Miss L says she has not accepted this as she feels  she will be in the same position 
in January 2019 as she was previously. Miss L wants  Lloyds to refund all bank charges on 
the account to help her with her situation.  
Lloyds say charges  were  stopped on the account since  August 2018  as the account was 
over its overdraft limit and a goodwill gesture was offered of £200. As Miss L declined this, 
the payment was not credited to her account.
Lloyds say Miss Ls account  was sent to the collections team who have sent out a number of 
letters asking her to contact them to arrange a repayment plan. Lloyds say no response  was 
received and the account was sent to a debt recovery company to arrange collection.
Miss L says she is unhappy about receiving letters from a debt recovery company for the 
outstanding balance on a regular basis and this has caused her distress.
An investigator looked into this and thought Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong. The 
investigator says Lloyds treated Miss L in a positive and sympathetic way once they were  
made aware  of her financial difficulties. The investigator says Lloyds were made aware of 
these difficulties in November 2018  when  a complaint was raised with them.
The investigator considered if Lloyds should  have reasonably been aware Miss L was 
experiencing difficulty before this. They were not persuaded  Lloyds  should  have known  as 
money was being  paid into the account sporadically and the account wasnt  used for day to 
day expenses.  Consideration was given to Miss L being close  to her overdraft limit for long 
periods of time but he thought this would not have alerted  Lloyds to a problem as this is how 
many people manage their account.
The investigator thought Lloyds had acted fairly  when it was told about Miss Ls financial  
difficulties. This is because they contacted  her to set up an affordable payment plan,  stopped 
all charges, put her in touch with debt advice  organisations  and their own customer support 
team. 
Miss L didnt  agree  with the investigators  view and the matter  has now been passed to me 
for a final decision.
Ref: DRN37611142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of factors I have considered in this complaint which are similar to that of 
the investigator.
Firstly, I have considered if Lloyds were aware, prior to being informed by Miss L, if she was 
in financial difficulties. Miss L paid varying amounts into her account, usually every  four to six 
weeks. Other than direct transfers or cash deposits there does not appear  to be any regular 
incomings to the account that would indicate a source of income.  There was also rarely any 
day to day spending  on the account.  It would therefore be unreasonable  to expect Lloyds to 
know Miss L was experiencing financial difficulties. This is because  the account  wasnt  being 
used in a way that would suggest it was her main account. Miss L was also regularly paying 
in money towards  what was owed.
Miss L first went over her overdraft limit in January  2016 however quickly  paid money into 
the account to cover  this and bring  it back to its limit; this occurred a number of times over 
2016/17/18. Although this may seem concerning, it is an indication  the account  is being 
managed and payments are being maintained  for the account. For this reason I find it would 
be difficult for Lloyds to reasonably know Miss L was experiencing financial difficulties.
This leads  me to what  Lloyds have done when they were made aware. Miss L and Lloyds 
are not in dispute of the facts surrounding what has been offered. 
Miss L was transferred  to Lloyds collections department as her account  was over its 
overdraft limit for more  than 30 days and payment had not been made for some time. Lloyds 
say letters  were sent to Miss L six times between April 2018  and October 2018. I have seen 
the contents of these  letters which outline  the following:
The customer should let Lloyds know if they are having difficulty paying.
Payment options and timescales.
Debt advice guidance.
Although I appreciate Miss L was having difficulties at the time, it was in her best interest to 
respond to these letters and give Lloyds an opportunity  to assist her with the difficulties  she 
faced. Miss L says she did not respond  due to her health as a result of the difficulties but       
I cant reasonably find Lloyds at fault for this when they were unaware of the issues.
In November 2018 Miss L made  a complaint to Lloyds and this was the first time they were  
made aware  of the difficulties she faced financially. It was following this Lloyds offered a 
£200 refund  of charges  and agreed to suspending  future interest and fees.
Miss L was again told to contact collections and complete an income and expenditures form 
to see how they could support her moving forward. Lloyds  say they provided further 
information on third party  organisations  that could assist with her financial difficulties.
The way in which businesses  should  treat consumers in arrears  is set out in the Consumer 
Credit sourcebook (CONC 7). Though Lloyds can suspend or refund charges  on accounts 
they are not required to do so. It is for this reason I find Lloyds have acted fairly by 
Ref: DRN37611143suspending the charges and offering a refund of previous charges. The £200  is equivalent to 
around four months of daily overdraft  fees. As Lloyds werent previously aware  of her 
financial difficulties, I think this was a fair offer to help reduce what she owed.
Lloyds have also tried to engage with Miss L to arrange an affordable payment plan and 
provided details  of debt charities that could  help Miss L. I think  these were reasonable steps 
for Lloyds  to take.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ls account  and overdraft facility  outline the fees and 
interest incurred as a result of using this facility.  I cant therefore reasonably ask Lloyds to 
refund these charges when Miss L was aware of the costs  of using the facility. 
I appreciate Miss L is suffering a number of difficulties which have had an impact  on her life 
and I hope these are resolved. However, I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to refund all charges 
on the account in the six year period. Lloyds have taken several  steps to help Miss L with 
her difficulties and for this reason  I find have acted reasonably and fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, my final decision is that the steps taken  so far by 
Lloyds Bank  Plc, including offering  a £200 refund of charges  is fair and reasonable. If it 
hasnt already, Lloyds  should pay Miss L £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761114