K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  hasnt fairly settled  a claim he made on his 
home contents insurance policy.
background
Mr J has a home contents insurance  policy with Ageas. In December 2018 he contacted  
Ageas to make a claim  under his policy for accident  damage to his bath and sink. He said a 
family member had slipped when climbing into the bath to have  a shower. This resulted in 
them putting  their feet through  the back of the bath. And, in addition to the bath being 
damaged, damage  was caused to the sink unit by an ornament  falling  from the windowsill. 
Initially, Ageas appointed  its supplier to establish whether the damage could be repaired. 
However, it was later confirmed by this supplier that the bath and sink needed  to be replaced 
due to extent of the damage.  So, Ageas  decided  to settle Mr Js claim on the basis of cash 
settlement. 
Mr J sent photographs of the damaged sink and bath to Ageas. It input the details  of the 
damage into its building repair  scoping system, which Ill refer to as S in this decision.  S 
calculated the cost for replacing the sink and bath based on local national  rates,  including  
uplift and disposal.  And it gave  Ageas  a cash settlement price  of £351.63. Mr Js policy 
excess was £150  so Ageas offered to settle his claim in the sum of £201.63.
After Ageas  made  this offer Mr J provided it with two estimates  for a new bath and sink. One 
of the estimates  was £326.35, which was lower  than S calculation   so Ageas deducted Mr 
Js excess and offered to settle his claim for £176.35. 
Mr J also provided Ageas  with quotes that he had obtained from two companies,  which  
included the cost of supplying and fitting the bath and sink and removing the broken items.  
But Ageas thought the quotes were too high and it wasnt  prepared to pay the costs quoted.
As Mr J wasnt happy with how Ageas proposed to settle his claim he contacted it. He 
wanted to try and understand  why its settlement offer was much lower than the quotes hed 
submitted. He explained that one of the lower estimates hed provided, which Ageas had 
paid out, was for supplying the bathroom  items  and did not include removal, disposal  and 
refitting those items. At this point  Ageas  referred back  to S quote, which included these 
elements and it increased its original offer to allow for labour costs. After doing  so, it offered 
Mr J a settlement of £500 from which it proposed  to deduct his policy  excess.
Mr J remained  unhappy with how Ageas was intending to settle his claim. He thought  the 
cash settlement figure was unfair.  He said he couldnt source labour as cheaply as S had 
quoted. And he decided  to go ahead with the work  using his preferred company  incurring a 
cost in doing so of just over £1000.
Mr J decided to bring  a claim to our service, which was considered by one of our 
investigators. Overall,  our investigator  thought that Mr Js claim had been fairly  dealt with by 
Ageas. They  didnt think that it needed  to do anything further because it had made a fair 
offer to Mr J, which included the cost of replacing his bath and sink and labour costs. But Mr 
J didnt agree with our investigator and asked  that an ombudsman decide  his complaint.
Ref: DRN34499182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator  that Ageas  acted fairly when it offered to settle  Mr Js 
claim. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that Mr Js bath and sink was accidentally  damaged  by a family member  
and that this loss is covered under his policy. The issue here is whether the amount Ageas 
has offered to settle Mr Js claim fairly reflects the value  of supplying and fitting the 
replacement bath and sink and disposing of the damaged items.
In this case Ageas has agreed to pay Mr J a cash settlement,  which it feels  will return  his 
bathroom to its pre-loss  state. But its clear he disagrees  with the amount hes been offered.
Ageas has offered Mr J a total of £500 to settle his claim. Its satisfied this figure includes the 
cost of replacing and removing  the damaged sink and bath and supplying  the new items. Its 
also explained that its reached  that settlement figure by using S, which is a site used by 
various insurers that runs on the National Schedule of Rates  and calculates the cost of 
tradesman in the locality of the insured. It also calculates the cost of materials needed.
Ive seen two quotes  that Mr J provided  Ageas, which give a total cost of £1185  and £1293 
for all the work needed. So, I can understand why hes unhappy that hes been offered £500  
by Ageas. But that doesnt mean Ageas  settlement figure is wrong  and unfair.
Mr Js policy, in common with many home  insurance  policies, allows  Ageas to settle  this 
claim in a number of ways. The terms and conditions of his insurance policy allow  Ageas to 
either replace an item or make a money payment instead. They explain in clear  and 
intelligible language that Ageas will pay the cash equivalent, based on what it would cost 
Ageas to replace the items.
 
So, under the terms of Mr Js policy, if Ageas offers him a cash  settlement its entitled to 
deduct from that sum any discounts obtainable. This means it can limit its cash settlement to 
the cost it would incur  if it were to use its preferred supplier or tradesperson  for example. 
And this can be less that the cost Mr J would incur  if he were to use one of the companies 
he obtained a quote from.
The labour  costs Mr J has provided  quotes  for are considerably higher than those Ageas has 
obtained from S. And this is why theres such a difference  between  the offer Ageas made 
and what Mr J would like it to pay. 
Im satisfied Ageas has agreed to pay the replacement  cost of a new bath and sink in 
accordance with the quote Mr J initially provided.  And, in relation  to labour costs, its 
provided our service with evidence to show that Mr J would have been able to source labour 
at a cheaper rate. So, I cant say Ageas has done anything wrong in the approach its taken  
here. 
I understand that Mr J says he wasnt able to take advantage of a lower labour rate. He says 
he made enquiries locally but no one returned  his calls. But, while  I appreciate his 
frustration, I cant fairly hold Ageas responsible for tradespeople  not returning calls.  Its not 
something it has any control over. 
Ref: DRN34499183I recognise that Ageas cash settlement offer is frustrating for Mr J. But its agreed  to pay the 
full cost of replacing,  fitting and removing his damaged bathroom items based  on what  it 
would cost it to do so. This means  its offered to settle Mr Js claim in line with the terms of 
his insurance policy.
I appreciate that Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, but theres  nothing  to persuade 
me that Ageas has treated him unfairly  or unreasonably. And Im not persuaded there are 
any grounds for me to fairly and reasonably require Ageas to change  the settlement offer its 
made here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3449918