K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) dealt with 
them after it requested additional information from their son (S).
background
In March 2016, NatWest  was looking  to gather some additional  information  about the 
banking activities of S. Mr G spoke to NatWest  on behalf of S as he had authority to speak to 
NatWest about his sons account and S requested he do this. S wasnt  happy providing the 
additional information asked for and, as a result, NatWest said it may need  to close  Ss bank 
account. Mr G has said that during the call the NatWest representative  said S was breaking 
the law by not providing the information. And also that Mr G would be getting a letter  asking 
for the same information  and he would  also be breaking the law if he didnt provide it and 
may have  his accounts closed. Mr G raised a formal  complaint about this with NatWest.
In September  2016, Mr G received a letter from NatWest informing him that it was no longer 
able to provide  him with banking facilities, so he needed  to make alternative arrangements.  
Mr G asked NatWest  to reconsider  the closure  but it declined his request and his account 
was closed.
Mr G raised a formal complaint about  the account  closure and also the service  hed received  
from NatWest,  particularly  what was said in the phone call. He said Mrs G hadnt received a 
letter, but their joint account had also been closed. And he considered NatWest had 
breached a number  of regulations and guidelines.  These included  Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  guidelines on treating customers fairly and knowing your customer. He 
also considered  the Data  Protection  Act 1998 (as it then was) had been breached by 
NatWest in relation  to his download  of Trusteer  Rapport  Software; that he and Mrs G had 
been discriminated against because of their age; and theyd been  treated poorly  despite  
them being  vulnerable.
Mr G raised the above issues, in much more detail, to a variety of people  in NatWest and 
ultimately wrote to the Chief  Executive Officer  (CEO)  as he didnt consider he was 
receiving an appropriate  response.  Mr G also complained at this time about  the quality and 
lack of responses hed been receiving from the complaints department.  A member of the 
CEOs office acknowledged his complaint and said that there were times when it could have 
communicated more  clearly with him and it apologised for this. But overall  it didnt uphold  his 
complaint or agree to re-open the accounts.
Mr G didnt agree with NatWests response, so he brought his complaint  to our service.  Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, so Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2019. My findings  are summarised 
below:
Issues with Ss account
This service doesnt have  the authority to consider issues  with Ss account, or how S has 
been dealt with  because  S isnt a party  to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN32705582In any event, NatWest said it issued a final response  on these issues  in March 2016,  so 
even if we had authority,  its likely  this complaint  would be out of time under the FCA rules  
we must apply. So I didnt comment on any of Mr Gs points about  S or his accounts.
Treating Customers Fairly (TCF)
As our investigator set out to Mr G, our role is to investigate individual complaints, not to act 
as the regulator or carry out general  investigations  of industry  practice. With that in mind,  
I didnt comment on non-specific allegations about NatWests  general conduct of business.
From listening to the calls Id been  provided with, NatWest had acknowledged that there  
were times when it couldve communicated more clearly  with Mr G and it apologised for this. 
In relation to NatWests  complaints process, I said that our service wasnt able to tell a bank 
how it should operate this  because thats a regulatory matter (and because,  strictly 
speaking, the minutiae  of handling  complaints isnt a regulated financial service or activity  
covered by our jurisdiction). I said I could, however, consider whether it had complied with its 
regulatory obligations to provide a complaints process in line with the provisions in the FCA 
Handbook (DISP 1).
From reading the correspondence Mr G had provided, it seemed he was able to complain, 
and NatWest acknowledged and responded to his complaints, providing him with response 
letters. He may not have  considered it has responded to all his points in the detail or way he 
wanted, but from what I saw, it had dealt with his complaints.  Mr G said NatWest didnt 
always respond to him, but I hadnt  seen  independent evidence of this.
Mr G was also unhappy that the CEO didnt respond directly to him and instead he received 
a response from a more  junior member of staff. However, I concluded that its not the proper 
function of any CEO  to respond to every individual complaint made; indeed, that would be 
impracticable and commercially  unviable.  All large  companies have dedicated complaints 
departments  and its unreasonable to expect  a CEO not to delegate such  matters. 
Ultimately, this is a legitimate commercial decision NatWest made and not one I was 
prepared to second-guess. It was plain that he did receive  responses  from appropriate  staff 
to his correspondence, including phone calls, so I was satisfied NatWest dealt with his 
complaint fairly and reasonably. 
In relation to alleged  misrepresentation, telling untruths and covering up malpractice, I said 
I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  I didnt think  NatWests  actions  in relation to 
its communication with Mr G amounted to deliberate misrepresentation or untruthfulness. 
And I hadnt seen  anything else to suggest  this had happened.
From reading Mr Gs correspondence, he had made a number of assumptions about the 
reasons for NatWests  actions. So from these hed then concluded hed been  misled, his 
complaints buried, and that theres  malpractice and misconduct  throughout NatWest.  
I acknowledged that he received some varying  responses and some of his questions werent 
answered to his satisfaction. So I understood  why this has impacted his trust in NatWest and 
from this hed drawn negative conclusions. However, I hadnt  seen anything that showed 
these conclusions were  based on evidence or fact. Looking at the overall conduct of 
NatWest throughout  his complaints, I didnt  consider  it had treated Mr G unfairly or breached 
the guidelines hed referred to.
Ref: DRN32705583Know Your Customer (KYC) 
Mr G said NatWest breached FCA rules by using  KYC principles to try and obtain personal 
information about both his and Ss finances to then use for future sales  opportunities. Hed 
said they were on a fishing exercise  and then closed his accounts because he wouldnt 
provide the data.
As Mr G had himself said, I concluded  that NatWest was required to comply  with legislation 
to prevent money  laundering, which included KYC principles. The rules set out that banks 
are required  to monitor customers on an ongoing  basis, not just when they first open an 
account or have  a change in circumstances: Money Laundering Regulations 2007 (Part 2, 
Section 8, Ongoing-monitoring) . So under these statutory regulations, NatWest would be 
able to ask Mr G (and/or  S) for additional information about  his finances at any time it 
deemed necessary,  not just at the times Mr G believes.
Mr G considered NatWest was asking unnecessary and intrusive questions, so he concluded  
they were being  asked  for future sales purposes. But I noted that Mr G had agreed to 
marketing with NatWest,  meaning it would be able to contact  him to try and determine future 
sales opportunities  without  breaching the terms and conditions of the account  or his rights  
as a data subject. But in any case,  NatWest had confirmed to Mr G that it wasnt  seeking the 
data for this purpose. So I didnt consider it had breached the rules around KYC.
Account closure
Mr G said he understood  and was aware  of the clause  within  his account  terms that means 
NatWest could close his bank account  in the way it did. However, he didnt  agree that this 
clause was fair and considered his account  had been closed to punish him.
I set out where  in the terms of the account  it said NatWest could close  it (section  7.1.2.) and 
said that, as Mr G was given notice, I didnt consider  the account had been closed unfairly. I 
agreed it would be unfair  for NatWest to close  Mr Gs account  if this was due to 
discrimination or if the account was closed by maladministration or as a punishment. 
However, I hadnt seen  any evidence to suggest  this was the case. I concluded  that NatWest 
had legitimately applied  its commercial right to decide who to have as a customer, which  
occured regardless  of their age or health. And unfortunately in this case,  it didnt want  to 
provide services to Mr G any longer. It gave him notice to move  his banking elsewhere  and 
considered his appeal, so I thought  it had fairly  taken into account his vulnerabilities.
Mr G said his joint account  with Mrs G was also closed and that she didnt receive any 
notification that this was happening. I reviewed the internal screenshots  NatWest  provided 
and these showed that a letter  was generated for Mrs G in relation to the joint account. 
NatWest provided a draft copy of what the content wouldve been and the system also 
showed the correct address for her at that time. So while  it was possible Mrs G may not 
have received this letter  (though not probable), I was satisfied NatWest had met its 
obligations by writing and sending it.
I considered Mr Gs point that he was required  to have a bank account  with NatWest when 
he was an employee,  so he had no choice but to agree to the terms and conditions of the 
account. But our service isnt able to look into employer-employee disputes, which this would 
constitute.
Ref: DRN32705584Mr G also detailed his account downgrade  how NatWest tried to downgrade him to a more 
expensive account  with fewer benefits  without his agreement. I found that NatWests  system 
suggests he was in fact downgraded directly to a free account, so on the basis  of the 
evidence I had, I didnt  uphold this complaint point.
Mr G also discussed the impact of Distance  Selling Regulations on his complaint. However 
I explained that The Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations 2000 specifically 
set out that financial services (including  banking services), are excepted  contracts  so 
exempt from these regulations. So I didnt consider these  applied to his case.
Data Protection Act (DPA) breaches and software  download
I reviewed the information Mr G submitted to try and show how NatWest breached the DPA 
and forced  him to download software  onto his computer. However,  I didnt consider the 
evidence supported his points. I hadnt  seen any evidence that NatWest forced him to 
download the software; and on agreeing to download the software, Mr G entered  into a 
relationship with the software provider and agreed  to its terms and conditions. 
response to my provisional  decision
NatWest accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr G disagreed  
with my provisional decision and provided  a 40-page response.  I would like to assure him 
that I have  read the full response, alongside  his full file. However, I wont  be listing  all his 
points here to ensure my decision is as concise  and accessible as reasonably possible.
In summary,  Mr G set out that what hes complained about is entirely focussed on the unfair 
treatment (abuse) of himself as a consumer/customer of NatWest. And the serious  
misconduct of NatWest  in enforcing customers to reveal highly confidential, personal 
information about their assets, savings, investment plans and wealth management 
information to which it had no legal right and which he and S were not willing  to give.
Mr G considers we should be able to look into his complaint points around  Ss accounts, due 
to the mandate thats in place. He disagreed that NatWest had appropriately  responded to 
his complaint or treated  him fairly. He provided  further explanation  on why he thinks NatWest 
has breached KYC guidelines  and said I misunderstood these. He denied  complaining  to 
our service  about his account closure.  And that he only included the concerns about the 
DPA as yet another example of NatWests failure to respond to complaints. He didnt add 
any further comments in relation  to my findings  on the joint account  closure  or Distance  
Selling Regulations.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr G has made a significant number of 
comments in response  to my provisional  decision. While I have read everything hes 
submitted, I will not be addressing all the points raised, as many are a repetition of his 
previous points, which I have already addressed. I acknowledge Mr G doesnt agree with all 
my provisional findings, but a number of his additional points do not change these, so I will 
only be addressing  the points that require further  clarification  and/or  impact the crux of his 
and Mrs Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN32705585As part of his response, Mr G has set out that I should listen  to his calls with NatWest and 
has picked out two in particular which he considers are of great  importance.  I was able to 
listen to the second call before I issued my provisional decision, but Im not able to listen  to 
the first. NatWest has explained that it isnt able to locate any of the calls other than some of 
Mr Gs conversations  with the executive  response team.  So I havent been able to listen to 
the first call, in which Mr G says all the lies, threats  and menaces  took place.
I note that in response to my provisional  decision, Mr G has said that NatWest  didnt offer 
any kind of apology in respect of anything.  However,  its in this second  call that Mr G 
receives an apology  for any poor communication received from NatWest up to the time of 
the call.
Ive considered the situation Mr G has described  being in on the first call and the behaviours  
hes said NatWest exhibited. As Im unable  to listen to the call and ascertain exactly what 
was said to him and in what way, Ive had to reach  my decision based on the information  
both parties have supplied. I also think its important to set out that, even if I were to agree 
with Mr G, I need to consider how NatWests actions have actually been  detrimental  him. 
Mr G has explained that he took over a telephone  call from S when he became  
uncomfortable with the questions being  asked. Mr G said he explained to NatWest  that S 
didnt have any interest or obligation to discuss his future investment or long-term wealth 
management plans  with it. Mr G says NatWest then said S was obliged  to do this and S 
would be breaking  statutory law and banking regulations if he did not. He says NatWest said 
he (Mr G) would be receiving a letter asking for this information too  and if he didnt provide 
it then his accounts would be closed for the same reasons.
Mr G believes  his complaints about  this call are the reasons his accounts  were later closed  
as he never  received a letter, but his accounts were still closed. NatWests  final response to 
this complaint set out that it thought an error hadnt been made in the questions asked. And 
separately its said that the account  closures were unrelated to the complaint Mr G made.
Mr G says his complaint points stem from the handling of Ss account in line with the 
mandate he holds  to speak about  the account.  But for the purpose of using this service, the 
mandate doesnt give us the authority to look into Ss accounts or for Mr G to bring  a 
complaint on behalf of S. And so I can only look into what happened to Mr G in his capacity 
as a NatWest customer, not at times when he was acting on Ss behalf.  With that said,  as 
Mr G says his banking  was also discussed in the first telephone call, I can look into the 
impact this had on him. 
I accept why Mr G wouldve been unhappy about potentially  being asked to disclose 
personal information that he didnt feel comfortable  providing. And if NatWest  was incorrectly  
suggesting he would be breaking the law, I appreciate why that would be distressing for him. 
But I have no way of knowing  what was actually said. NatWest has said it was satisfied with 
the call, whereas Mr G is very unhappy. So Ive looked at what happened next.
While its clear from his testimony that the call was frustrating for him, Ive seen no actual  link 
between his complaint and the account closure.  And following the call, Mr G didnt get a 
letter and wasnt asked  to provide any information, so even if I accept his version  of events, I 
cant see that NatWest did actually go on to wrongly  accuse  him of breaking any laws. And I 
note the letter S received states that NatWest required the information to comply with its 
legal responsibilities  it doesnt suggest  S has legal responsibilities to provide the 
information.
Ref: DRN32705586In my provisional decision I set out that I didnt  think NatWests actions in relation to its 
communication with Mr G amounted to deliberate misrepresentation or untruthfulness. And 
whilst hes provided further  detail to his testimony, I havent seen anything  additional  which 
shows this happened. So I havent changed my opinion on this point. NatWest has provided 
us with copies  of the responses it issued on Mr Gs complaints and, as I previously set out, 
while these  may not answer everything  to his satisfaction, I can see responses were  
provided and rights  to our service given.
Mr G has also raised  concerns around  how his complaint was handled by NatWest.  
However, we only have the power to consider complaints  about  regulated  activities  (and 
those set out in DISP  2.3.1)  and complaints-handling in itself is not one of these. So I wont  
be adding anything further to what I concluded  in my provisional decision on this point.
At the end of my provisional decision,  I said I was unlikely to change my mind without new 
evidence or arguments  showing that Ive erred in fact or law  or otherwise reached a 
decision thats unfair or unreasonable. In his response, Mr G has asserted that Im incorrect  
in fact, law, regulations and industry  guidelines, particularly in respect of FCA TCF, KYC 
regulations and possibly in respect  of money  laundering and proceeds  of crime regulations. 
However, despite his extensive response, he hasnt actually shown how I am wrong or 
provided new evidence  or arguments  which support this.
Mr G is saying NatWest  has breached KYC guidelines as it went on a fishing trip and hes 
said I have a fundamental misunderstanding of these guidelines. As I set out in my 
provisional decision, there are a number of legitimate reasons NatWest  may ask for this sort 
of personal information.  This does include marketing but can also be due to complying with 
money laundering regulations.
KYC exists in two forms in banking, as a requirement in the FCA handbook (Business 
standards, COB  5.2) and its the common name for part of the money laundering regulations  
on customer due diligence. So while I dont know what was said in the call, I consider it 
possible that while NatWest and Mr G have both referred to KYC, they were in fact not 
referring to the same  thing. As long as NatWest was complying with either the handbook or 
the regulations,  then it can ask for personal  information. And if a customer declines to 
provide this, it is possible that a bank could legitimately decide  it no longer wishes to have 
that person as a customer.  But in any event, considering NatWest  didnt  actually ask Mr G 
for his personal information, I cant see how it has breached KYC in either of the above 
forms  in relation  to what I can consider  under this complaint. 
NatWests executive  response team confirmed to Mr G that the information wasnt sought for 
marketing purposes.  I appreciate Mr G doesnt agree with this, but hes not provided any 
independent evidence which shows that NatWest  was breaching  the handbook or trying  to 
obtain information for future marketing. And if a situation occurred where  NatWest  was 
seeking information due to money  laundering concerns, it wouldnt be in a position to reveal 
this was the reason to the customer as this would in itself be breaking the law (Proceeds of 
Crime Act 2002, c.29, Part 7, s.333A). 
Mr G has set out that NatWest has never had any suspicions about him in relation to any 
criminal offending. But, with the above law in mind   and its not for me to comment  on any 
such allegations  the reality is that he wouldnt necessarily be aware if such  investigations  
had taken place.  And if a bank was asked by a customer why it was asking for certain 
information, it can only answer in line with its legal  obligations.  
Ref: DRN32705587Mr G has said he only included some of the issues he brought  to us as part of his complaint 
because theyre additional  examples of NatWests  unfair and unlawful treatment of its 
customers. This includes his account  downgrade and the installation  of Trusteer Rapport 
software. And hes said that while he complained  about the account closure to NatWest, this 
wasnt the complaint  he brought  to our service. On that basis,  I wont be commenting any 
further on these  issues as the further  detail hes provided doesnt change  my overall  
decision. And hes stated  they were provided  as evidence of his core complaint, rather than 
complaints hes asked us to address.  
Mr G has set out his interpretation  of how our role should work in terms of reporting 
breaches or suspected breaches  to the FCA  in relation to the issues in his complaint. And 
hes set out where  he considers and suggests we should seek legal and regulatory advice in 
order to resolve his complaint. But its for us to determine if something needs escalating  and 
if we need further advice.  And in this case,  I have read and considered Mr Gs points, but I 
dont consider we need to escalate or seek advice, including  legal advice, in order to resolve 
this individual  case.
Mr G is correct in saying  part of our role involves  sharing information with the FCA. However, 
we have our own internal  process for determining when its appropriate to do this, which 
would normally only be where theres clear  evidence of systemic failures or serious breaches 
of regulatory obligations (such as refusing to co-operate with us or comply with our directions 
and awards). But as Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint, and as theres  no persuasive 
evidence of non-compliance  or systemic failures, I dont consider theres  anything  for us to 
share or report.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3270558