K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that JD Williams & Company Limited removed the credit limit from his 
accounts. Hes also unhappy  that interest and charges have been added  to the account.
background
Mr W held three credit  accounts with JDW. In 2018 he contacted  JDW to advise that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. JDW placed one of the accounts on a payment 
arrangement and advised Mr W that he wouldnt  be able to pace orders  on any of his 
accounts.
Mr W says he didnt realise  that this meant that JDW would reduce the credit limit on both of 
his other  accounts  to zero.  He isnt happy  that these accounts are being  reported on his 
credit file as being  over the credit  limit. Hes also unhappy that interest  and charges havent  
been frozen on all three accounts. 
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr W wants his credit limit re-installed to the level of the balance  
on each account,  and to be allowed to pay off the accounts with the minimum payments hes 
already making.
In response, JDW said that Mr W had set up a payment arrangement on one account and 
that because of his financial difficulties, the account was switched to interest free on a review 
basis. JDW said at the time of setting  up the payment arrangement on one account,  it had a 
duty to remove any credit facilities from the other  accounts. JDW  said that interest  was being 
applied to the balance on the other  two accounts  in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions. It said that Mr W hadnt entered into a payment arrangement  on those accounts. 
JDW said that if it reported the credit  limit on each account to the Credit Reference Agencies  
in line with the balance, it would have  to re-instate the credit  limit which would leave Mr W in 
a position where  he could  use the account  to make purchase as and when payments were  
made to reduce the balance.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the business had acted fairly in agreeing the 
payment arrangement and freezing interest  on one of the accounts but he didnt think  it had 
acted fairly  in relation to the other  two accounts in so far as it hadnt  discussed  payment 
options or offered support. The investigator  felt that JDW should have done more  in relation 
to these two accounts,  given  that it knew that Mr W was experiencing financial difficulties. 
She recommended that JDW should discuss a payment plan with Mr W in relation to the 
other accounts and pay compensation.
JDW didnt agree. It said it had no reason to have discussed a payment  plan on the other  
accounts with Mr W because  he only raised concerns about payments on one of the 
accounts. It said it didnt  think it was fair to adjudicate on issues which  Mr W hadnt raised. It 
said Mr Ws complaint  (in relation to his other two accounts) was that the credit limits had 
ben removed. It felt that this was the only issue which should be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39410442Ive considered how JDW  treated Mr W when he advised it he was experiencing financial 
difficulties.
When a consumer gets into financial difficulties, Id expect a business to treat them  in a 
positive and sympathetic  way, in line with relevant guidance. Mr W contacted  JDW with 
concerns about  payments on one of his accounts. In response,  JDW  placed  the account on 
a payment arrangement and froze interest.
Although Mr W may not have made  a specific request to set up a payment arrangement in 
relation to his other two accounts at this time, Im satisfied that JDW wouldve been aware 
that he held two other accounts. I think JDW ought to have been aware that if Mr W was 
experiencing financial difficulties, this was likely  to affect his ability to make  payments on all 
three of his accounts,  not just the one account  he contacted JDW  about.  
JDW has said that Mr W didnt ask to set up a payment plan in relation to his other  two 
accounts. Even if he didnt ask to set up a payment plan, I think JDW  should  have discussed 
the accounts with him. I can see that JDW reviewed the other  two accounts at the time 
because it restricted Mr Ws ability to place orders on these by removing the credit limits. 
I think JDW shouldve done more,  given the information available to it about Mr Ws financial 
circumstances, and regardless of whether  Mr W made a request for a payment plan on the 
other accounts. At the very least I would have expected JDW to have had a discussion with 
Mr W about the other two accounts.
Whilst I agree that JDW acted responsibly  by withdrawing the credit limit on the other two 
accounts, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the implications of this were explained 
to Mr W in terms of the way this would  be reported  on his credit  file.
Ive noted JDWs comments in relation to reviewing issues which it doesnt consider were 
raised by Mr W. I dont  agree. Mr W complained that his credit  limit had been  withdrawn  and 
that he was still being  charged interest on both accounts. At its very essence this is a 
complaint about  a failure by JDW to treat all three accounts in the same way, which goes to 
JDWs responsibility to respond positively and sympathetically  when a consumer is 
experiencing financial difficulties. Im not saying that JDW is obliged to treat all three 
accounts in the same  way but I think it missed  an opportunity to discuss  the other two 
accounts with Mr W.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im upholding the complaint because Im satisfied that JDW 
should have done more  to discuss the other two accounts with Mr W and explained the 
consequences of removing the credit  limit more clearly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  J D Williams & Company Limited must:
Discuss the other  two accounts with Mr W to see whether a payment plan is 
appropriate
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr W for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Ref: DRN39410443Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3941044