K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about how Gefion Insurance A/S settled his motorcycle insurance claim.
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Gefion when talking about  their agents or
representatives and Mr B when talking about  his.
Mr B had motorcycle insurance with Gefion.  In February 2018 he was involved in an
accident. He was filtering past traffic when the driver of a car, travelling in the same
direction, decided to turn right into a driveway  in order to turn around. Mr Bs motorbike
collided with the drivers  side of the car causing  damage to both vehicles.
Both the car driver and Mr B denied liability for the accident. To avoid delays to the repair  of
his motorbike, Mr B claimed on his policy with Gefion for the damage  to his motorbike and
left them  to deal with the claim  form the car driver.
In April 2019, Gefion  settled on a 50/50  basis, which meant  they paid 50% of the car drivers
claim. They cited the case law of Hillman v Tompkins (1995). Mr B didnt  think  this was a fair
outcome. So, he complained to our service. Mr B said Gefion didnt allow  him a chance to
provide representations  and didnt get the police report before settling the claim. Mr B also
didnt think the appropriate case law had been considered.  Mr B explained his insurance
premiums had gone up as a result and asked for compensation.
The police report from the accident stated that the car driver  did not check  their mirrors
correctly and failed  to see Mr Bs motorbike.  It noted the car driver was driving without due
care and attention.  It made no comment on the driving of Mr B.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and suggested Gefion record the accident  as non-fault
and pay Mr B £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Neither party  responded,
so its been passed to me for a decision.
On reviewing the relevant correspondence  in this case, I noted that Gefion actually cited  two
other pieces  of case law they felt were relevant in this case. This included Joliffe  v Hay 
(1991) where liability  was split 70/30, finding  an overtaking car was mostly responsible.
And Davis v Schrogin (2006) which found the car driver entirely liable.
Having reviewed the evidence, I felt it was likely  Id reach a different decision than the 
investigator. So, I shared my provisional decision with Gefion  and Mr B so they had the 
opportunity to make any comments  or provide further evidence.  Neither  responded and so 
Im not persuaded to change my provisional  findings  or decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I started  by looking at Mr Bs concerns about  the information he was able to give Gefion
before it reached  its decision.
Ref: DRN36608752M B told us he didnt  have  the opportunity to provide representations. According to the policy
terms and conditions, Gefion had the right to settle the claim. So, I wouldnt expect them  to
necessarily consult with Mr B about the settlement. But I would  expect them to give him the
opportunity to provide his account  of the accident and take this into account.
Having reviewed the correspondence, I can see Mr B was asked for his version of events
and given the chance to provide  details of any witnesses. So, I think Gefion have acted
reasonably here.
But Mr B was also concerned about the fact Gefion didnt get a copy of the police report
before settling the claim. And given there was disputed liability  and no CCTV or witnesses in
this case, I can understand why. I think its reasonable  to expect Gefion to have requested
this report to assist their review of the claim given  there was no other evidence.
Ive noted that in emails to Mr B, Gefion have since observed that Mr B didnt provide them
with the report.  But he was never asked to. And I dont think  its fair to expect a consumer to
know what they need to provide an insurer. For these reasons, I dont think  Gefion acted
reasonably.
So, Ive then considered whether this police report is likely to have affected how the claim
was settled.
Having read the police report carefully,  I think it clearly supports Mr Bs view that he was not
at fault. And although it doesnt explicitly comment on Mr Bs driving, it does criticise the car
drivers actions, as Ive mentioned above.  So, I think its reasonable to conclude the police
felt the car driver was the one at fault here. Not Mr B. But Gefion have suggested  the report
wouldnt have changed how they settled the case.  They said this was an opinion and it was
not stronger than the relevant case law.
And, whilst a police  officer  is a relevant, qualified professional, Ive noted  they didnt witness
the accident or attend the scene. It seems his opinion was based on accident  photos and
accounts the drivers  gave at the time,  which dont  really differ from the information  later
given to Gefion.  So, I agree  with Gefion that the police report  isnt strong enough evidence to
show the car driver  was fully responsible for the accident.
I can see Gefions point  here is that more weight should be attached to the relevant case
law. And where  the circumstances are sufficiently similar,  I think  its reasonable for Gefion to
put weight on the relevant case law. But on reviewing their correspondence in this case, Ive
noted that Gefion  referred to three different pieces of case law which  they said were
relevant. Gefion have  provided us with no information about how or why they have preferred
the case of Hillman v Tompkins over the others.
Having reviewed these  cases, there are some  similarities, but also differences.  And Im not 
persuaded that any of these cases are sufficiently  similar that their findings should  have  
been applied  in Mr Bs case. 
Ref: DRN36608753For example, Joliffe v Hay didnt involve a motorbike. In Hillman  v Tompkins  the motorcyclist 
was found partially  liable because the judge  believed they were travelling too fast on the 
approach to a junction. However,  the estimated speeds of this motorcyclist where higher 
than any mentioned in Mr Bs case. And in Mr Bs case, the car driver  was not turning at a 
junction, but into a driveway  of some unoccupied, new build houses. And in 
Davis v Schrogin, the car turned to the offside prior to pulling out, meaning the indicators 
wouldnt have been visible  to the overtaking motorcyclist  something which isnt suggested 
in Mr Bs case. In view of all this, it is difficult to know what the outcome of Mr Bs claim 
would have been if it had been considered  by a court.
But  as Ive said - I dont  think  the police report is particularly persuasive,  so I dont think
theres enough for me to say getting it would  or should have led to Gefion defending the
claim against Mr B. Because liability was disputed, I think  Gefions  50/50  settlement was
reasonable, even  allowing for the what police report said. So, whilst I appreciate this will
come as a disappointment  to Mr B, I dont  think Gefions  mistake in not getting the report  has
prejudiced his position.
But I think the service Mr B received from Gefion was poor. As well as the issues  with not
obtaining the police report, I can see Mr B wasnt kept up to date about his claim. Given  it
took nearly a year to settle the matter, I think its reasonable to expect Gefion to have let
Mr B know  what  was happening. But after writing to him in July 2018  to request his account
of events, Gefion didnt contact Mr B again until he requested an update from them  in
January 2019.  I also dont  think Gefion acted reasonably here to progress negotiations and
the claim effectively. For example, on more than one occasion  it was over a month  before
Gefion responded  to correspondence sent by the car drivers insurer. And whilst I dont think
these delays impacted  the outcome, it unnecessarily  prolonged the process for Mr B.
For these reasons I dont  think  Gefion  acted reasonably in the handling of Mr Bs claim.
And I think this caused him distress and inconvenience.  So, I think  they should  pay him £100
in compensation  to reflect this.
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I partially uphold this complaint and direct Gefion Insurance A/S 
to pay Mr B £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3660875