K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that TSB Bank plc didnt arrange the survey report  theyd asked  for 
as part of their mortgage  application  leading to them  buying  a property with several 
defects.
background
Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage  with TSB,  via a broker.  As part of their application,  they 
chose to request  a homebuyers report, and paid the appropriate fee to TSB.
They say they didnt receive  the report before the purchase completed. But after they moved 
in, they found  a number  of problems  including  damp, woodworm and problems with some  
of the electrics. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to the third party surveying company TSB had asked to value the 
property, which Ill call C. C said it hadnt  been  able to carry out the report  itself because  of 
pressure of work, and had asked another company, J, to carry it out instead. 
C said J had said it wasnt possible to do a homebuyers report because of the propertys 
age and type. C said it had sent TSB an email  about this, and asked whether Mr and Mrs H 
wanted a full structural survey. C said it no longer had a copy  of the email. TSB said it hadnt 
received any such email.
In the event, as it wasnt told to do a full structural survey J carried  out a basic valuation, 
which was sent to TSB. The valuation said the property was in acceptable condition but 
noted that there was evidence of damp to ground floor walls  and recommended the 
instruction of a damp contractor to investigate  further.
Mr and Mrs H had, by then, moved quite a long way with their house purchase.  Their broker 
rang TSB to chase  up the homebuyers  report and TSB read the comments on the valuation 
to the broker over the phone. The broker rang back around two hours later to tell TSB that 
Mr and Mrs H had agreed  a price reduction on the property because  of the damp, and TSB 
issued a revised offer. The sale then completed.
A few months later, after theyd discovered  other issues with the property, Mr and Mrs H 
complained to C. C said it hadnt carried  out the valuation. It said it had told TSB a 
homebuyers report couldnt be done and hadnt received further instructions. It said it had 
refunded the additional  cost of the homebuyers report  to TSB to pass  on to Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H then complained to TSB. They said theyd had to spend  a lot of money  on 
putting right problems theyd found  with the property.  Because theyd never had a survey, 
they didnt know  how much more needed to be done. Had they known  about  the propertys 
issues, theyd never  have bought it. They want TSB to refund their costs to date, commission  
a survey and pay for any further issues the survey  shows.  Theyd  never been told J had 
recommended a full structural survey. Theyd paid TSB for a homebuyers report and 
considered it was responsible for them not having  one  and the consequences  that flowed 
from that.
Ref: DRN32002842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several different types  of inspection that can be carried out as part of a property 
purchase. The most common  are a valuation, a homebuyers  report  and a structural survey.  
A valuation  is just a check of the propertys value,  carried out for the benefit of the lender to 
check the property  is adequate security. Homebuyers reports  and surveys  are more detailed  
inspections of the property for defects and structural problems, to advise the purchaser on 
the condition of the property. When carrying out a valuation, a valuer wont be actively 
looking for the sorts of issues covered by a homebuyers report  or survey  but may note 
them if seen  and advise  further investigation.
In this case, Mr and Mrs H wanted a homebuyers report. Thats what  they asked for, and 
thats what was arranged.
TSB instructed C to carry out a homebuyers report alongside the valuation  it needed  for its 
own purposes, and C in turn instructed J to act on its behalf.
C says J said it couldnt  do a homebuyers report, and C says it asked TSB what to do 
instead but received no response. 
However, C says it no longer has a copy of this email. If thats the case,  Im not sure how it 
can be certain that it was ever sent. Ive carefully reviewed TSBs notes, and theres  no 
evidence it ever received  this email if it was sent.  And in turn, TSB didnt ask Mr and Mrs H 
how they wanted to proceed.
On balance, I think its likely that TSB didnt  receive an email  from C. It therefore didnt know  
about the problem with the homebuyers report  and couldnt tell Mr and Mrs H or their 
broker about it.
TSB did receive a valuation, which noted the damp  problems. As exchange of contracts  was 
coming up, and as they hadnt  received  the homebuyers report they were  expecting,  Mr and 
Mrs Hs broker  called  TSB and had the contents of the valuation  read out to him. He passed 
this on to Mr and Mrs H, who re-negotiated the purchase price based  on what  they were  told.
This tells me that Mr and Mrs H were aware  of the nature and purpose of a homebuyers 
report. They wanted it specifically to advise  them  on the condition of the property. And they 
knew that they hadnt received it before they exchanged contracts.
The nature of the brief comments read out from the valuation report to the broker  would, or 
should, have told the broker  and so Mr and Mrs H  that what  TSB had received was a 
valuation report,  not a homebuyers report.  And I would have expected Mr and Mrs H not to 
have exchanged contracts  until theyd  seen the report they intended to rely on. Id also have 
expected Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor to have advised  them not to proceed  until theyd seen the 
report they had paid for.
I dont think it would  be fair to hold TSB responsible for Mr and Mrs H buying  a property with 
defects without seeing a homebuyers report first. TSB commissioned the report from C, but 
did so on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf. The valuation was for TSBs  benefit,  but the homebuyers  
report was for Mr and Mrs Hs benefit.  In that respect, C and J were acting for Mr and Mrs H, 
Ref: DRN32002843not TSB.  And Mr and Mrs H decided to go ahead with their purchase before seeing  the 
report theyd asked  for.
However, Mr and Mrs H paid for a homebuyers  report, and never received one. C says it 
refunded the difference between the cost of that and the cost of a valuation  to TSB for it to 
pass back to Mr and Mrs H. As it was via TSB that they paid for it in the first place, thats the 
right process. However, TSB now cant say whether or not it passed  that refund on to Mr and 
Mrs H at the time; they say it didnt, and TSB accepts it should do so now. I think  thats fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc should  refund to the 
difference in cost between a homebuyers report and a valuation  to Mr and Mrs H, adding 
simple annual interest of 8% running  from the date they paid it to the date of refund. I make 
no other direction  or award. TSB may deduct income tax from the interest  element of my 
award, but should give Mr and Mrs H the necessary certificate, if they ask for it, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3200284