K820x#14complaint
Miss L has complained  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold a number 
of packaged bank accounts.  Her account  history is as follows;
Account 1
Account opened  as Select Platinum in May 2014
Upgraded to a Reward Platinum account in February 2016
Changed to a Reward Silver  account  in February  2017
Account closed in March 2017
Account 2
Opened as a Reward Platinum account in February 2017
Account closed April 2017
background
Our adjudicators looked at this complaint and did not think that NatWest  had mis-sold the 
accounts for Account 1. We did not look at Account 2 as the fees for this had already been 
refunded by NatWest.  So my decision will not address account  2. 
Miss L did not agree with the adjudicators  assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look 
at her complaint.
This decision will also not address Miss Ls bank accounts being closed by NatWest,  as this 
is being dealt  with separately, under a different reference number.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about Miss Ls complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that NatWest mis-sold  the 
packaged accounts to Miss L. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Miss L has not said that she was unaware that these accounts  were optional for her. And I 
can see that she opened a fee free account around the time she first took out the Select  
Platinum account  in 2014. So I think Miss L wouldve been aware that free accounts  were 
available to her. Her complaint seems to mainly  be that the benefits that the accounts  came 
with were in her words  useless.
All of these sales were  carried without  a personal  recommendation. So given this, NatWest 
did not need to ensure that these accounts were  right for Miss L. Instead NatWest needed to 
give Miss L enough information to allow her to do this for herself. Miss L has not indicated 
that she was not told about the benefits or the cost of these accounts and I can see that Miss 
L has registered  for the majority of the benefits  that the accounts came  with. So I am 
satisfied that the major benefits of the accounts and how to use them were likely explained 
to her. 
Ref: DRN34517452I accept that NatWest may not have explained  everything about all of the benefits  that the 
accounts came with. But I cant see anything specific  that Miss L was not told about, that 
makes me think Miss L wouldve changed her decision to take out these accounts, had she 
been given more information about them.
In closing, I should say that for me to uphold a complaint and recommend that the account 
fees be refunded,  I would have to be satisfied that NatWest did something wrong during the 
sale of these accounts. In this instance, while Miss L may not have used  the benefits that 
these account  came with as much as she had expected, and it may be with hindsight that 
Miss L may think these  accounts werent  value for money, this in itself does not mean the 
accounts were mis-sold  in the first instance.
Having looked  at all the information  provided and thought  about  everything Miss Ls said, 
I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the packaged accounts to her.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3451745