K821x#15complaint
Mrs Y says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs Y took out with a store  card in 2000. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ys case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mrs Y 
clear enough  information  about  the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Mrs Y knew about at 
the start of the policy. And I havent  seen clear  evidence that Mrs Y was made sufficiently 
aware of this term during the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs Y because shes told us that at the time of the sale she 
was suffering from a medical condition. Shes told us she was diagnosed  with the condition 
around a year before the sale, that she took medication for it and that it had caused her to 
have significant  time off work.
FICL has asked to see evidence of how the condition affected Mrs Ys ability  to work. But 
Mrs Y has told us she had to have time off work as a result  of the condition. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs Ys condition was so minor that she wouldnt want any potential  
claims as a result of it to be covered by the PPI policy. And FICL hasnt sent us any specific  
information or arguments about Mrs Ys condition  or why she would still have wanted the 
policy despite it.
Mrs Y has said she wouldnt  have taken  the policy if shed been  told any claims resulting 
from her existing condition wouldnt be covered.  And I dont think theres enough evidence to 
say that Mrs Y would  still have taken the policy if shed been told any pre-existing conditions 
wouldnt be covered.  And so I dont think she wouldve taken the policy if it had been made 
clear to her that any time off work as a result of her condition wouldnt have been covered. 
So I think shes lost out as a result  of FICL  not making the exclusion  clear to her.
Ref: DRN38965212putting things right
FICL should put Mrs Y in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs Y would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs Y owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs Y made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs Y would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs Y would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs Y 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs Y paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs Y 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs Y what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs Y a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ys complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3896521