K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  for a loan that Mr R took out in 2000.  The PPIs  cost 
was added onto the loan and attracted interest. Thats  called a single  premium  policy.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
I think Mr Rs PPI policy was mis-sold here, for the same reasons  as our adjudicator.
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mr R, so it had to check it was right for him. But I dont 
think it was right for him. It also had to give him information about  the PPI that was clear, fair, 
and not misleading.  But I dont think that it did.
Mr R had a medical condition when he bought the policy, which wouldnt have been covered. 
Mr R said the condition  was caused by an accident some years  before the sale, and that he 
had to have operations for it. He said he still had symptoms  at the point of sale in 2000 and 
was on regular medication, and this is still the case even today. He said it affected all 
aspects of his day-to-day  life and he had to take some time off work for his condition  around 
the point of sale. 
Barclays said it didnt feel there was sufficient evidence of Mr Rs condition. But it also said 
its internal notes recorded that Mr R was indeed off work for several months at a time, at 
multiple points, in the couple of years  before  the sale, due to an accident. So this fits very 
well with what Mr R said. Mr Rs bank  statements  also show a gap in his salary payments 
around the time he wouldve  been off sick.
So I think there is more  than enough evidence  to support Mr Rs testimony  which itself has 
been detailed  and plausible. Its difficult to see what other evidence Barclays  can reasonably 
expect Mr R to give.  I would  remind Barclays that it does not have Mr Rs original documents 
from the sale and so has not shown  conclusively that he agreed to the PPI. Barclays  argues 
that it cant be expected to have such documents after so long, which I understand. But then 
that expectation should apply to both sides.
This policy excluded  any claims  that resulted from Mr Rs pre-existing condition,  which cast a 
potentially wide net of things that he couldnt  claim for. And Mr Rs condition wouldve been  
the most  likely thing to cause him to take time off work again. So I think  this exclusion 
wouldve really mattered  to Mr R. But I cant see that Barclays took any account  of this in its 
advice, nor does it look like Mr R wouldve been  given  clear information about the exclusion.
Ref: DRN33998942I think that if Barclays had given Mr R suitable  advice, or if it had given him clear,  fair 
information about the PPIs exclusions, then it wouldve been clear the policy wasnt  right for 
him and he wouldnt  have bought it. So I think Mr R has lost out because  of what  Barclays 
did wrong.
putting things right
Mr R borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr R needs to get back  the extra he paid.  
So, Barclays  should:
Work  out and pay Mr R the difference between  what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr R paid each month from when  he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% simple a year.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr R can claim 
back the tax if he doesnt  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3399894