K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 2002  at the same  time as taking out a further  advance  on 
their mortgage. They  applied for the further advance and PPI policy  in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £107.17 a month towards Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £7.25 a month.  
Mr and Mrs H have provided  information  about their occupations at the time the further 
advance and PPI were taken out. However,  the information they recall does not match that 
provided on the further advance and separate PPI application forms. As it is more  likely the 
information recorded on the application  forms at the time is accurate, that is the information  
about their circumstances I have used  in determining this complaint. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a Heating  Engineer. Mr H has indicated he was not 
entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay and he didnt  have any other means  of repaying 
the mortgage should he be unable  to work.  Mr H has said he had a medical  condition  prior to 
the time of the sale. 
Mrs H wasnt covered  by the policy, however if Mr H wasnt working, they would  have had 
her income available. But according to the information on the application form this was 
substantially less than that of Mr H. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that Mr and Mrs H had also taken out another  
further advance  in June 2005  and then the mortgage account  closed in December 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs 
representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Lloyds should have told 
Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN35608492The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Lloyds should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have  had on Mr Hs chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  
be most  needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Mr and Mrs H arranged a further  advance in June 2005 on their mortgage  after mortgage  
lending became regulated in October 2004   this led to the whole mortgage becoming an 
FCA regulated mortgage. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of 
the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act 
and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about  the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN35608493The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees  of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Hs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If Lloyds gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN35608494Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them  to make  an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and Mrs H, 
I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mr and Mrs H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs H already  had their mortgage  in place and had taken out a further  advance  in 
2000 with Lloyds, when they applied for this further advance in 2002. They  had not taken out 
PPI with the original  mortgage or the first further advance, so they would have known  they 
could have this further advance without  taking out a PPI policy.  
Also Mr and Mrs H had to complete a completely  separate  application form for the PPI and 
on that form indicated  they want to take out the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs H agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H seem to have limited recollections  of the circumstances and 
detail of the meeting. The adviser  had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And although  a separate application form 
was completed for the PPI, to try to establish  whether Mr and Mrs H had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues  and 
existing means  I dont  think  it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
I say this as the questions  on the form were limited  and only recorded yes or no answers and it 
is unclear if any wider discussion around the questions took place. In this case,  the information 
requested and collected was far less comprehensive  than a full demands and needs record.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
Ref: DRN35608495While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Mr H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr and Mrs H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments  would have been put under strain if Mr H 
not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for Mrs Hs income.  
The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr H. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Hs employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  for him 
to claim.  Regarding  pre-existing  medical  conditions, Mr H has told us about  a back 
problem he had in 1988. This was some 14 years  before he took out the policy and there 
is no evidence  to show he had any ongoing treatment  for this other than around the time it 
occurred. So this doesnt appear to be caught by the policy  limitations and exclusions. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
While  the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim for 
accident, sickness  and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances.
While  the policy included a requirement that Mr H be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before je could  make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences  should Mr and Mrs H be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr H was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs H 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN35608496Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs H. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs 
H suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs H would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN35608497Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
H was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cannot be certain that Lloyds told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs H applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs H would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs H would get back  
in return in the event Mr H made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms  that Mr H knew 
about or ought  to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr H wasnt  
a permanent  employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  Mr H was unable to do 
the duties of his own job, a similar  job or any paid work which  his experience,  education 
or training  reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN35608498I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  Mr 
and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as they thought, and they might have decided  not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, 
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some consumers 
in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr H was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr H has mentioned  a 
medical condition  that occurred  some  14 years earlier, this is unlikely to have been caught  
by the policy  terms.  And if full information had been given about any exclusions, I dont think 
Mr H would have anticipated being  off work for any length of time as a result  of this 
condition, after being so long since it occurred, so it wouldnt have affected any decision 
about taking out this policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr H wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think Mr and Mrs H had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known Mr H could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about  what  he would have done.  
And I accept  it may have  given Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr H was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim Mr H made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they /had limited  other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  for each claim  would have been of benefit to them 
and would help them manage the consequences  should Mr H be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs H would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for Mr H, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mr H was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs H would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN35608499Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2002  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN356084910Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 February  2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3560849