K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I realise  this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, 
particularly given how long theyve waited for a final answer but I hope my explanation below 
is clear and helps  them  to understand why Ive made this decision.
Ive noted that the mortgage  associated with the PPI was originally  arranged  by a third party, 
not with YBS directly and Ive seen nothing which make me think  YBS told Mr and Mrs H the 
PPI was compulsory.  
The evidence Ive seen  supports that the third party suggested Mr and Mrs H make their own 
enquiries into PPI and that at some point after this Mr and Mrs H took out the policy  directly 
with YBS.  They did this by completing a separate application form for the PPI which  they 
both signed. The mortgage application also refers  to PPI and says:  The Yorkshire considers 
[PPI] insurance cover  so important that we will pay the first six months premiums for you 
(provided that you are eligible for cover  under  the normal terms of the policy) if you wish to 
take out cover. (bold emphasis mine).
So from everything Ive seen, I think YBS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
As Ive said above,  Mr and Mrs H took out the policy directly  with YBS  but YBS didnt 
recommend the PPI to them. This means it didnt have to check  if it was right for them or 
give them  any advice about  it. I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs H feel they didnt need  the policy 
because of their employment  benefits.  But as no advice was given, it was up to 
Mr and Mrs H to decide whether the policy met their needs.
YBS role was to make  sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for them. Its possible some  of the information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs H about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  
like they decided they wanted  this type of cover  at the time.
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   and it looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Ref: DRN34323962YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - including  what theyve said about the 
third party recommending the policy.  But this isnt a point I can consider against YBS. And 
the points made by Mr and Mrs H  including in their most  recent  correspondence   havent 
changed my decision.
what the business needs  to do
I understand YBS sent Mr and Mrs H a cheque but that it wasnt cashed. So, if it hasnt 
already done so, YBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra  they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS 
should also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  (if it hasnt done so already).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3432396