K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc are holding  her liable for cashpoint (ATM)  
withdrawals that she says she didnt make  or otherwise  authorise.
background
In 2018 Miss H opened an account with HSBC.  She says she didnt receive a debit card or 
PIN. She says that she lives in a flat within  a converted house that has a shared front door.  
She also says post often  gets messed  around between her and her neighbours. 
HSBC say the card and PIN were  sent separately around 14 May 2018 and the card was 
then activated  on 20 May 2018. They also say the account was credited with around £2,700 
cash in branch also on 20 May 2018. 
There were then six ATM withdrawals between 20 May and 23 May 2018. These were for a 
total of over £2,500. Miss H says she noticed the funds  missing from her account  on 24 May 
2018 and cancelled the card. 
HSBC investigated  but declined to offer Miss H a refund  for the transactions  she disputed. 
Being unhappy with this Miss H brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators  
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She concluded it was more  likely than not that 
Miss H had authorised  the transactions in question. As she still disagrees, Miss H has asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint. I 
know this will be disappointing for Miss H, so let me explain  why.
Generally, HSBC can only hold Miss H liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely than not that she made  or authorised them herself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transactions. But the regulations  relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold Miss H liable. So I also need  to think about whether 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss H consented to the transactions 
being made. 
Ive reviewed the reasons our investigator  gave for reaching her conclusions  and I agree 
with what she said. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable  for HSBC to 
conclude that Miss H authorised the transactions.  I dont  intend to repeat all the reasons our 
investigator gave, but overall the evidence  I find most persuasive  is:
The pattern of spending isnt typical of fraudulent use. Its common  for a fraudster to 
wish to achieve the maximum benefit as soon as possible.  At any time the genuine 
cardholder could  realise and cancel the card. There were  also no attempts to use the 
card for purchases, only ATM withdrawals.  
If the card and PIN were intercepted around  14 May 2018 Id expect  to have seen it 
used sooner than 20 May 2018  for the same reasons.  
Ref: DRN35292542In addition to the above,  the strongest piece of evidence  for me is that HSBC have shown 
that Miss H attended a branch on 22 May 2018 to temporarily increase the daily ATM  
withdrawal limit on the account. HSBC have said that ID would have  been  needed to make 
this request. And whilst  they dont have a record what sort of ID was provided, I think it is 
more likely than not that their branch  staff would only have actioned this request after being  
satisfied they were dealing with Miss H. I appreciate Miss H says it wasnt her that made this 
request. But Im more  persuaded by the evidence provided by HSBC. And if she really  hadnt 
received her card, she would have had no reason  to make that request. I also think its more  
likely than not that the transactions  that took place before this interaction  would have been 
identified and disputed  at that point.  
Miss H has asked that CCTV is checked, both in relation to the in branch interactions and 
the ATM withdrawals. Ive thought about  this point, but I dont think  it would provide 
conclusive evidence. Miss H could  have authorised another person to make the ATM  
withdrawals. And I think the ID being checked  by branch staff is stronger evidence than 
trying to identify Miss H through CCTV.
Taking all the circumstances of this complaint  into consideration, I think  its more  likely than 
not that Miss H made or otherwise authorised the transactions she disputes. It follows that I 
think it is fair for HSBC  to hold her liable  for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2019..
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3529254