K820x#14complaint
A complains U K Insurance  Limited  unfairly refused to pay a claim on its motor trade internal 
risks insurance policy. 
A is a limited  company. Its been represented during this complaint.  For simplicity Ive 
referred to the actions  of the representative  as being those of A.
background
A is a motor  trader.  It held two UKI motor insurance  policies.  One a motor road risks policy   
the other a motor  trade  internal risks policy. In September 2012 a car was damaged in an 
accident. A claimed  for the car on the road risks policy.  UKI refused the claim. An 
ombudsman at this service considered a complaint about that decision. They  said it was fair 
and reasonable.   
Then A claimed for the damage  to the car under its UKI motor  trade  internal risks policy.  
Again, UKI refused  to pay. It said the policy didnt provide cover as A wasnt  responsible  for 
the car at the time of the damage. A disagrees. It says it held the car as part of its stock. It 
said it had been  damaged  during a buyer  demonstration. So it wants  UKI to pay the claim.
Our investigator didnt  recommend UKI pay the claim. She wasnt persuaded the car was the 
responsibility of Auto Velocity at the time of the damage. A didnt accept her assessment. It 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms set out that insured property  suffering accidental damage at As premises 
is covered. It then lists the insured  property  covered by the policy. This includes Insureds 
Vehicles - Any Motor Vehicle the property of the Insured  or for retail sale including  those 
leased in or on consignment from manufacturers or distributors or on commission  for which  
the insured is responsible.  Also listed is Customers Vehicles - Any Motor Vehicle  held in 
the custody or control of the Insured for which the insured has accepted  responsibility. .
UKI doesnt feel the car was insured  property,  as set out by the policy  terms, at the time of 
the damage. Having considered it, I dont feel UKIs  position  is unfair  or unreasonable.    
Theres a lot of history and disputed  assertions  relevant  to this complaint. Its all well known  
to both A and UKI. So I wont repeat it in detail here. But it is worth providing  some 
information to set the scene. 
A isnt the owner and registered keeper of the car  it belongs to a Mr S. As premises and 
its surrounding land is owned by Mr S. A says it agreed with Mr S, in December 2010,  to sell 
the car on a commission basis. Since roughly that date the car is said to have been at As 
premises. A and Mr S say it only left on two other occasions  both to go to a garage  for 
repair work. 
Ref: DRN32392582Mr S and A say their relationship is varied. Hes its customer. But he also sometimes  helps 
the business out. His assistance to A is said to include occasionally  demonstrating its cars to 
potential buyers. A says say he was doing exactly that when the car was damaged.   
A says the car should be considered as insured  property at the time of the damage because 
Mr S was demonstrating the car, on its behalf,  to a potential buyer   Ill call him Mr K. It says 
that would  mean A was responsible for the car at that point. UKI doesnt accept that. It says 
at the time of the damage  Mr S car was in his own possession  for his own purposes.  It 
seems to doubt that A had been commissioned to sell the car for Mr S.  
Ive considered the two relevant insured property definitions. For me to say UKIs reason  for 
refusing the claim  is unfair Id need to think the following.  That at the time of the damage A 
was either  responsible for the car or that it was held in its custody or control. But I dont think 
either is most likely.  Thats the case even  if I accept A did have an agreement with Mr S to 
sell the car and that he did provide  it with occasional assistance.
Mr S initially  told UKIs investigator  that his friend was in the passenger  seat and he was 
showing the car to him. His statement does refer to it being a demo drive. But theres no 
reference to it being  for a potential sale. He and A seem to have explained that later on . 
But even if I accept Mr K was a potential  buyer,  Id need to think Mr S probably was acting 
on As behalf at the time. Without that A cant fairly be said to have been responsible for the 
car at the time  or holding it in its custody  and control. 
Theres been no explanation from A about how Mr K was contacted  as a potential buyer  
nor how his demonstration came about.  In a statement  Mr S says hes sure he would have 
let As director know he was giving a demo to the potential buyer, Mr K. And that director 
says, he too, is sure Mr S would have told him that he was demonstrating the car to Mr K as 
a potential buyer.  
But these  explanations dont persuade me that it was the actions of A, such as its advertising  
or previous dealings,  that sourced Mr K as a potential buyer. They make it sound like Mr K 
was Mr S lead or contact.  Its not clear  that A was even aware of Mr K before the accident. 
Mr K does say in a statement he went to see the car for a test drive by A. And Ive 
considered what  As said about Mr S health after the accident.  But overall, I cant say it was 
most likely A, rather than Mr S himself, that was dealing  with Mr K as a potential  buyer. I 
cant say Mr S probably was demonstrating the car to a potential buyer on behalf  of A. 
So UKIs claim that Mr S was possession of the car for his own purposes  isnt unfair or 
unreasonable. Neither is its position  that the A wasnt  responsible  for, or in control of, the car 
at the time of the damage.  That means it cant fairly  be described  as insured property at the 
time of the damage. So Im not going to interfere with UKIs decision to refuse the claim. 
Ref: DRN32392583my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2021.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3239258