K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that she was mis-sold an income protection insurance policy by Bank 
of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
In 1995, Mrs D and her partner met with an adviser from BoS while  in the process of seeking 
to obtain a mortgage. The adviser  recommended that Mrs D and her partner take out various 
insurance policies,  including  that Mrs D take out an income protection  insurance policy.
In 2018, Mrs D complained that the policy had been mis-sold. She said she hadnt wanted or 
needed the policy but had been pressured into taking  it out in the belief that she and her 
partner would otherwise not be granted their mortgage. She thought  that shed been over-
insured because she and her partner had also taken out payment protection insurance (PPI) 
when the mortgage started.
BoS didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that the recommendation to take out an 
income protection insurance policy had been appropriate. It acknowledged that by also 
taking out the PPI policy, Mrs D had become  over-insured. However, it noted that Mrs D and 
her partner had complained about the sale of the PPI policy  and had received a full refund of 
premiums, plus interest. In light of this, it was satisfied that the cover provided by the income  
protection insurance policy  had been  suitable  for her needs.  
Mrs D was unhappy at BoSs  response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  the 
adviser had made a suitable recommendation.
Mrs D didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said that the policy was designed to pay 
benefit after a waiting period of three months but she was entitled to twelve  months  sickness 
pay from her employer.  Furthermore, even after her employers sickness  pay expired, she 
could have relied on her partners income to pay both the mortgage  and the household  bills. 
She therefore considered that, like the PPI policy, the income  protection  insurance policy 
hadnt been needed and that the adviser  had taken  advantage of her inexperience. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Let me clarify that this complaint is not about  the PPI policy, which  has also been  referred  to 
as Mortgage Repayment  Insurance  (MRI) and an Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  
(ASU) policy. That policy provided cover  towards the mortgage repayments for up to 52 
weeks in case either  Mrs D or her partner was unable to work due to illness  or injury,  or was 
made unemployed. Following an earlier complaint from Mrs D and her partner,  BoS has 
accepted that the policy  was mis-sold and has provided a full refund of premiums, plus 
interest. I can therefore consider the current complaint about the sale of the income 
protection insurance policy  as if the PPI policy never  existed.
Ref: DRN36426272The evidence shows that the adviser  carried out a fact find which revealed that Mrs D had a 
need to protect  her income over the longer-term. The adviser recommended that she take 
out an income protection insurance  policy, which I consider to be a suitable 
recommendation. This would pay a monthly  benefit if Mrs D was unable to work because of 
illness or injury. The policy was designed  to run until Mrs D reached the age of 65. The sum 
assured was appropriate bearing in mind  her stated income and financial commitments. The 
waiting period of three months was to complement the sickness benefit provided  by Mrs Ds 
employer as recorded in the fact find.
I note that Mrs D disputes this and says she was entitled to twelve months benefit from her 
employer. However, the evidence  from the time of sale indicates that she reported the benefit 
to be for a three month period. I recognise the point  of sale evidence isnt as comprehensive 
as it might be but this isnt surprising given that it was so long ago. Based on the available  
evidence, Im satisfied that the recommended waiting period of three  months was suitable.
Mrs D says that she didnt  need  the policy and that she could have relied  on her partners 
income. However, the evidence indicates she wanted to protect her own income  and so I 
think the advisers recommendation was suitable.
Im satisfied that Mrs D would have been sent full details of her policy  at the time and would 
have had a cooling  off period to cancel it if shed been unhappy with any aspect of it. Mrs D 
chose not to cancel the policy. Im satisfied the policy was suitable  for her and I have no 
reason to suppose  she wouldnt  have been  able to receive benefit if shed needed  to make 
claim while the policy was in operation. With this in mind, I have no reasonable grounds for 
saying the policy was mis-sold or that BoS should  reimburse her premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3642627