K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an equity-release mortgage which, until recently, the late Mr D held 
with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited.  The mortgage was redeemed in early  2018, following 
the sale of the freehold property containing  the flat which was the security for the mortgage. 
Subsequently, Mr Ds daughter complained, with his authority, that hed been denied the 
opportunity to make a negative equity claim. Sadly,  Mr D died in late 2018,  and his daughter,  
Ms J, now represents his estate.
background
The mortgage was taken out in 2004,  secured on a leasehold flat occupying the first and 
second floor of a property.  From here on, for simplicitys sake,  Ill refer to the security as the 
Upstairs Flat.  Meanwhile, the ground  floor was a separate leasehold flat (which Ill refer to 
as the Downstairs  Flat) and didnt  form part of the security for the mortgage with Aviva.  
The mortgage was taken out jointly by Mr and Mrs D; after she died, the mortgage vested 
solely in Mr D. According to information  taken from Land Registry records, Mrs D owned the 
freehold of the entire building. In 2004, when the mortgage was taken out, a lease was 
created over the Upstairs Flat, with Mrs D as lessor (landlord) and Mr and Mrs D as joint 
lessees (tenants). Later records with Land  Registry show  that in 2015, Mr D acquired  the 
freehold for the entire  building,  seemingly  having  inherited it following Mrs Ds death.  
In early 2018, Mr D decided to sell the freehold; his solicitor obtained a redemption 
statement from Aviva, and following the sale, redeemed the mortgage over the Upstairs  Flat 
in full. A few months after that, Ms J, with her fathers authority,  raised  a complaint with 
Aviva. She said that Avivas security  was only over the Upstairs Flat which, in the local 
estate agents  opinion, was worth less than the outstanding mortgage  balance. That being 
so, Aviva should have  invoked a provision in the mortgage contract  that guaranteed that it 
would write  off any negative equity.
Aviva was willing to invoke retrospectively the no negative equity process in the mortgage 
contract. In the normal course of events, the process for that would involve obtaining  - in 
advance of the sale completing  - an independent  valuation of the security,  to satisfy Aviva 
that it was being sold at the best price reasonably achievable. If Aviva  were satisfied of that, 
then it would write off any difference  between  the outstanding mortgage balance and the 
sale price.
The difficulty  here was that it required the Upstairs Flat to be valued individually (and 
retrospectively) in order to establish  what it would have been worth  if it had been  sold on its 
own, in a separate transaction from the sale of the Downstairs Flat and/or the freehold for 
the whole  building. Aviva  tried doing this but found  it impossible to find a valuer willing to 
accept the instruction. There were two stumbling blocks:  firstly,  Mr D was reluctant for any 
valuer to request access from the new owner  and secondly, the property  had since been 
altered internally, such that, as I understand  it, the Upstairs and Downstairs  Flats  effectively  
no longer existed.
With matters at an impasse, the parties  were  unable to move  forward to an agreed solution,  
and the complaint was referred to us. Sadly, after the case  came to us, Mr D died, meaning 
Ms Js authority to bring the complaint  on his behalf ended. Nonetheless  our investigator 
looked at it, and explained to Ms J informally, that she considered Avivas response to be 
reasonable. She said that it was right for Aviva  to seek to invoke the negative equity process 
Ref: DRN32760312retrospectively, but without being able to obtain  the independent valuation,  it wasnt  obliged 
to accept the negative equity claim.
Having now obtained  grant of probate  appointing  her as executor of her fathers estate, Ms J 
has asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Ms J; like the investigator, I dont  think Avivas  done anything wrong either. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant  provision in the mortgage contract  is intended to remove  the risk of a borrower  
being unable  to sell the mortgaged property  for less than they owe on the mortgage. To 
ensure fairness  to both parties,  it requires that the mortgaged property be valued 
independently. Mr D didnt  approach  Aviva  in advance to ask for this, chiefly  because he 
wasnt simply selling the mortgaged property; that is, the Upstairs Flat. He was selling the 
entire building.
Its important to remember, however, that Aviva wouldnt have known this at the time of the 
sale. It was simply  informed by Mr Ds solicitors that the mortgaged property was being sold, 
and that a redemption statement was required. It provided the statement, and Mr Ds 
solicitors remitted  the amount it asked for to clear the mortgage in full. 
Aviva had no reason  to consider that it might have  received more  than it was due (and to be 
clear, I make  no finding that this is the case)  until several months later.  Its response, when 
informed of the wider  transaction, was in my view entirely reasonable. It agreed to apply the 
contract in the same  way that it would have applied if Mr D had requested it in a more  timely 
fashion. 
That this proved impossible to achieve  wasnt down to any omission or shortcoming on 
Avivas part. It was largely down to circumstances and events, none of which Aviva had any 
control over. Given that it proved impossible to obtain the necessary independent valuation, 
theres no reasonable basis  to say that Aviva should instead have accepted an anecdotal 
opinion on how much the Upstairs Flat on its own might have been  worth,  regardless of the 
knowledge and experience of the party giving that opinion.
Ms J says it isnt reasonable to expect an elderly man in poor health  to understand and 
follow the details  of a contract. Im not sure Id agree with that as a generalisation; each case 
has to be judged on its own circumstances,  and here it needs  to be remembered that Mr D 
wasnt conducting this transaction alone.  He had a solicitor working to transact the sale and 
redemption alongside  him. But the point is moot, in that Aviva  was willing  to work on the 
basis that he had understood  and followed the right process. 
And whilst I appreciate Mr D may not have recalled  the fine detail of what  the no negative 
equity provision required him to do, its a reasonable conclusion  that he knew that he was 
selling more than just the Upstairs Flat. In that respect, it seems to me he knew  more  than 
Aviva.
Ref: DRN32760313my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J, on behalf  of 
her late fathers estate, to accept or reject  my decision before 17 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3276031