K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that she was mis-sold a unit-linked endowment plan by Canada Life Limited 
because the cost of life cover meant  she couldnt make a meaningful  return.
background
Ms H took out a Capital Builder plan July 1993 with a term of 25 years at a premium of 
£52.27 based on the advice she was given. The plan provided  £100,000  of life cover  and on 
maturity it paid out £15,615. Ms H complained when she found out the cost of life cover  was 
between £35 and £40 when she says she thought it was only £9.
I issued a provisional decision a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In short I found that:
I wasnt satisfied the adviser had said the costs of life would only be £9 throughout  
the term of the plan.
Ms Hs objectives were life cover, income protection and savings and they had equal 
importance.
The Capital Builder  plan was recommended on the basis it could provide both life 
cover and savings.
The plan was sold predominantly as a savings plan, as its name and the phraseology 
in the plan brochure - which used terms such as the savings plan designed to put 
your money in your hands profitably - suggests.
The cost of life cover depended  on the difference between the amount of life cover 
and the value of the plan.
Given the amount  of life cover Ms H wanted  and her limited budget there  was always 
going to be a significant shortfall  between the value  of the plan and the life cover,  so 
the cost of providing the life cover  was always likely to be a reasonable proportion  of 
the premium she paid which in turn then impacted on the return.
It was unlikely Ms H was made aware of this by the adviser.
The advice was also unsuitable because the life cover was for her son and such  
cover would typically be until the child was 18 or 21 whereas  this cover lasted until 
her son would be 26. The term of the plan also didnt fit with her recorded expected 
retirement age.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider before reaching my final decision. Ms H responded and, in summary, 
made the following comments:
Will there  be any way of checking  Canada Lifes calculations, given they dismissed 
the complaint  from the start and will want to keep costs  to a minimum.
Why is the compensation  payable based  on Bank of England (BoE) plus 1% rather 
than our standard 8%? Could  the ombudsman reconsider  this?
The Capital Builder  plan was sold to her as a profitable savings plan and before  she 
invested in it she had intended to take out a Personal Equity Plan  not with Canada  
Life. 
The premium of £52 each month was quite a chunk of her income when her son was 
small and she was the sole earner and she believed most of it was being invested.
Canada Life also responded and made the following points:
Ref: DRN34653522Ms Hs priorities  are numbered in the fact find and it is clear that that her first priority 
was life cover of £100,000.
She only had £50.75  to put towards  life cover  and savings.
Whilst a retirement age of 55 was noted  on the fact find Ms H had no existing 
pension provision except state pension so it wasnt unreasonable she wanted a 
policy that would provide  life cover until state retirement age  which was 60 at the 
time.
The term of the policy was clear and Ms H paid the premium  until maturity in 2018 
which seems to reinforce the fact that she wanted the life cover provided by the 
policy despite her son reaching 18 years  of age in 2010.
She continued to pay into the policy despite  getting red re-projection letters from 
2001.
If Ms H wanted life cover until her son reached  18, as the ombudsman  thinks,  she 
wouldve selected a term that coincided with him reaching  that age.
Having cover for 25 years meant  Ms H wouldve had life cover until her son was in 
his mid-20s at which point he wouldve  finished  further education and hopefully be in 
a financially stable  position.
The plan included waiver of premium benefit, which most pure savings  plans such as 
a PEP dont provide. Its own PEP required a minimum premium  of £50.
A Level  Term Assurance (LTA) plan wouldve cost £22 including waiver of premium  
benefit. It is questionable whether Ms H couldve found a pure savings plan she 
couldve paid the balance of the premium into, and there is a strong possibility she 
wouldnt have invested this but used  it on living expenses.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has raised a concern about  Canada Life calculating the redress payable  because it 
rejected her complaint throughout. But it wasnt unreasonable for it to do so and this doesnt 
mean it would  calculate  the redress inappropriately. We generally rely on the business to 
calculate redress and I see no reason  not to do so in this case.
Ms H has also raised an issue about using  BoE plus 1% to calculate redress.  I have used 
this as the basis of redress because I think she wouldve  used the balance of her money 
after paying  for life cover  to invest in something else.  I dont know what  she wouldve 
invested in which is why I have used BoE plus 1%. I think this is an appropriate way to 
calculate redress in older cases where more recent benchmarks arent appropriate to use. 
The rate of 8% is not the normal rate we use where someone wouldve reinvested.
Canada Life has also made a number of points  which I will address.  I noted the numbering of 
Ms Hs priorities  in the fact find when  drafting  my provisional decision.  I took the view that 
the numbering  was simply a list of priorities  and not an indication of the relative priority of the 
three things  identified  in the notes the adviser sets out the life cover need  and then states 
that at the same time (my emphasis)  the client wants  a strong savings  element in any 
policy.
I acknowledge that I may be wrong about  this but even if I am, I still dont think  the Capital  
Builder plan was a suitable plan to provide what Ms H wanted  and I dont think  she 
understood how it worked.
Ref: DRN34653523I dont think the lack of pension  provision  has any relevance to how long Ms H wanted life 
cover. The only person  who would benefit  from the policy on her death  was her son and, as I 
said in my provisional decision, typically  cover  would be provided  until he was 18 or 21 and 
not 26. 
I think the lack of pension provision maybe relevant to how long Ms H wanted to invest for. 
On that basis it isnt surprising she kept the plan until maturity.  I dont think  this is evidence  
she wanted life cover until her son was 26, or that she wouldve taken out life cover  for this 
period if she had been properly advised. 
I didnt indicate  that Ms H wouldve wanted cover until her son was 18 as Canada Life has 
suggested. I asked  it to calculate  redress on the basis  she wouldve had life cover  until he 
was 21. I also dont agree that if she wanted life cover until 18 (or 21) she wouldve asked for 
a policy  that provided  that term. As I have already indicated, the term was more  likely than 
not determined  by how long Ms H wanted to invest not how long she wanted life cover  for.
I acknowledge the point made  by Canada Life about the possible difficulty in getting  a 
savings plan with waiver of premium  benefit  and accept this may only have been available 
for a plan that provided life cover. 
But Ms H may have been able to take out a separate investment plan with minimum life 
cover that might  have  also provided waiver of premium. And even if she couldnt, Im not 
persuaded that this was that significant  in relation to any investment she made.  I think  the 
continued payment  of the premium for life cover  was probably of more  concern to Ms H. So 
Im not satisfied the fact she may not have been able to get waiver of premium benefit for her 
investment if she hadnt invested in the Capital Builder plan means she wouldve still 
invested in the plan if she had been properly advised.  
I acknowledge the point made  by Canada Life about the minimum amount payable into its 
PEP, and such minimum payments werent  uncommon for PEPs generally. And there  is 
limited information available as to what investments wouldve  been  available  to Ms H in 1993 
as an alternative to the Capital Builder plan. But Im not satisfied Ms H wouldnt have been 
able to find any alternative investment.
What Canada  Life should do to put things  right
From the evidence I have  seen Ms H wanted life cover  for her son so I dont think it would be 
appropriate for her to get back the full cost of the premiums plus interest. But I think  she 
shouldve been  recommended  an LTA for 20 years  providing £100,000  of cover instead  of 
the Capital Builder plan.
Canada Life has calculated the monthly  premium  for this at £22.01.  This compares to the 
£52.27 Ms H paid for the Capital Builder plan. So, on its calculations the balance  she 
wouldve had available to invest  wouldve  been  £30.26 for 20 years and the full premium  
thereafter until maturity.
I think Ms H wouldve  invested the balance of the premium in an investment but it isnt 
possible to say exactly what she wouldve invested  in. So Canada Life should  calculate what  
Ms H wouldve  received if she invested  the balance of each premium each month and 
achieved a return based on the BoE Base rate plus 1%. It should compare the total figure 
Ref: DRN34653524Ms H wouldve  then received on maturity  and compare  that with what  Ms H actually received 
when her plan matured. 
If it calculates that what she wouldve received is more  than she did receive Ms H has 
suffered a loss and it has to pay the difference together with simple interest at 8% on that 
amount from the date of payment of the maturity value to the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above and in my provisional  decision. Canada 
Life Limited has to calculate  redress as explained above and if it calculates Ms H has 
suffered a loss it has to pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34653525COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms H complains that she was mis-sold  a unit-linked  endowment plan by Canadal Life Limited because  
the cost of life cover meant she couldnt make a meaningful return.
background
Ms H took out a Capital Builder plan July 1993  with a term of 25 years at a premium  of £52.75 based 
on the advice she was given. The plan provided £100,000 of life cover and on maturity it paid out 
£15,615. Ms H complained when she found out the cost of life cover was between £35 and £40 when 
she says she thought it was only £9.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  He didnt  think the 
adviser had explained the charging  structure to Ms H. He said the plan needed to achieve  a return  of 
10.5% for an amount to £36,000 to be paid on maturity.  He said the plan would  never have been able 
to achieve the target amount of £100,000. He said that although the illustration Ms H was given  when 
she took out the plan explained how mortality  charges are deducted this didnt tell her how much was 
deducted.
The investigator thought Canada  Life should repay all the premiums together with simple interest at 
8% on the premiums.
Canada Life didnt agree with the investigator and made the following  points:
There was not a target maturity value of £100,000. This was the sum assured  that wouldve 
been paid on the death  of Ms H.
The plan was never set up as a mortgage-linked  endowment plan but the red re-projection  
letters that were sent assumed the sum assured was the targeted maturity  value as is 
standard practice with mortgage  linked  endowment plans.
Ms H has provided no proof she was told the life cover costs would be £9 each month.
Its paperwork shows the life cover costs depended  on the sum at risk  the difference 
between the sum assured and the then current fund value so how could an adviser  indicate  a 
fixed amount of £9.
We had previously indicated that the term of the plan was too long given it was taken out to 
provide cover for a child and it should refund the premiums from when the child turned 18. It 
is concerned we are now saying all the premiums  have to be repaid.
The investigator responded  to the points made. He didnt  change his opinion  and said that he thought  
the plan was taken out on the basis Ms H would achieve the sum assured of £100,000. He said 
because of this he didnt think the adviser adequately explained  how the plan worked and that it 
wouldnt realistically achieve Ms Hs overall  objectives and if this had been made clear  she wouldnt 
have taken out the plan.  
As Canada  Life didnt agree with the investigator the matter  has been referred  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  it is important to make clear that Ms Hs complaint isnt that she expected a certain amount on 
maturity that had been guaranteed at the outset but didnt get. If it was that complaint  would probably  
have been made too late because Ms H was given  re-projections some time ago of the likely return 
on the plan which were  a lot lower than the original projections  as pointed out by another  
Ref: DRN34653526ombudsman in the jurisdiction decision  he made on this complaint  and nowhere near the £100,000  
the investigator suggested  Ms H was expecting. 
The first letter I have seen  that shows this is dated  May 2003 and showed  a maturity value of only 
£14,400 based on the regulators highest return. The other letters I have  seen after that show varying 
maturity values but all were  below £20,000. 
I note these  letters were sent to her on the basis that she had a Linked Homebuilder plan,  which was 
provided for mortgage  cover,  and they did refer to a target amount.  Canada Life explained  that when  
Ms Hs plan was set up the wrong plan name was coded onto its system  but that she always had a 
Capital Builder plan.  I am satisfied that Ms Hs plan didnt have  a target  amount and when she took 
out the plan she didnt do so on the basis she expected to receive £100,000 or any specific amount 
on maturity.
I think  the documents available  at the time of sale made this clear. In particular the illustration  
provided at the time simply  shows different  maturity values based on the percentage rates of return  
set by the regulator  at the time  the highest being  a return of 10.5% each year which provided a 
figure of £36,600 after 25 years.
So what is Ms Hs complaint about? She has said that she was told the life cover costs would  be £9 
each month  and it is the fact that she has found out that the costs were significantly higher  and the 
impact of this on the returns - that has led her to complain.
I accept she may have  some memory  of this figure being mentioned, but her recollection from so long 
ago is very unlikely to be entirely  accurate. There isnt enough evidence  given the only evidence  is 
Ms Hs recollection - for me to be satisfied that the adviser told her the cost of life cover throughout 
the term of the plan would only be £9. That isnt how the plan worked  and Im not persuaded  the 
adviser wouldve said the cost was fixed when  it wasnt.
But I dont think that is the end of the complaint. What has caused Ms H to complain is being made 
aware of the amount of her premium being used to pay the costs  of providing the life cover. She is 
unhappy about the impact  this had on her returns and thinks this made it very unlikely  the plan would 
provide a meaningful  return.
The fact find completed by the adviser  at the time Ms H took out the plan shows that she had three 
priorities - life assurance, income  protection, and savings. I dont think  that any one objective was 
more important than another. So I think obtaining a good return was equally important to her as life 
cover.  
There is reference to her having a PHI policy  a reference to Permanent Health Insurance which  is 
what the industry terms income protection. So I think Ms H was recommended an income protection 
policy which she hasnt  complained about.
The Capital Builder plan was then recommended  on the basis that it could provide both the life cover 
and savings  that Ms H wanted. The notes in the fact find state:
The client  feels the need to guarantee a £10,000 income  for her son in the event  of premature  death. 
Therefore cover for £100,000  is required on the basis that such  a sum can provide long-term a return 
of 10% p.a. once prudently invested. At the same time the client wished  to have a strong  savings 
element in any policy undertaken and she stated that at the present time she could afford £50.75 per 
month.
Although this indicates  that Ms H wanted a strong savings element in the plan providing life cover 
there is no reason  that life cover and savings had to be in the same plan. I dont think  this is 
something that Ms H said she wanted but is simply something  that fitted with what  the adviser was 
recommending. So I dont think  there was a need  for her to have just one plan.
Ref: DRN34653527I think  it is clear from the information  I have seen that the plan was sold predominantly as a savings  
plan. It was called a Capital Builder  plan and is clearly  identified as a savings plan. The plan 
brochure uses  phrases  such as:
 
The savings plan designed  to put money  in your hands profitably.
And:
The Canada Life Capital  Builder is a flexible and profitable way to save for your future.
But the plan wasnt just a savings plan. It also provided life cover which  had to be paid for. The life 
cover costs are based  on the amount  at risk  the difference between  the amount of life cover and the 
value of the plan. For example, in the first month the cost of life cover is in effect the cost of providing  
the full £100,000  of life cover  as only one premium of £50.75 will have been paid and the value of the 
plan is negligible. 
So in the early years the value of the plan is likely to be less than the premiums paid in. That is why 
the sample projected surrender values shown  in the brochure over the first five years of the plan 
indicate that more will have been  paid in premiums than will be paid out  based on an assumed 
growth rate of 8.75% as required by the then regulator.
The longer the plan is held the greater the potential to make a return  over and above the premiums 
paid. But for Ms H there was always  likely  to be a significant shortfall  between  the value of her plan 
and the sum assured given the amount  of cover  she wanted  and her limited budget. 
In the circumstances the amount on risk, and therefore  the costs of providing  the life cover,  was 
always likely to be a reasonable proportion  of the premium  she paid which in turn impacted  on the 
return her plan could achieve.
I dont think it is more likely than not that the adviser made this clear  to Ms H. And I dont think she 
was made aware by the adviser that the life cover and the value of the plan are inter-linked  so that 
when the plan was performing poorly  she was paying more for the life cover than she would if the plan 
had performed well, which in turn then impacted  on the return. 
I can see no reason she was put in an endowment  plan to provide her with the savings she wanted  
given the amount  of life cover she needed and her limited budget. I acknowledge that the life cover 
made the plan a qualifying plan for tax purposes. But she only needed to have a small amount of life 
cover for this, not £100,000. 
I also think  the plan was unsuitable for another reason. Life cover for children  is typically until they 
reach 18 or 21 years of age. But in this case the cover would provide cover until Ms Hs son was 
around 26. 
There is nothing in the fact find to indicate Ms H wanted life cover for when  her child wasnt a 
dependent. The term of 25 years also doesnt fit with her expected retirement  age as recorded in the 
fact find of 55 years.  In the circumstances I can see no good reason  a term of 25 years rather than 20 
years was recommended.
In the circumstances Im not satisfied the Capital  Builder plan was a suitable recommendation for Ms 
Hs objectives of providing life cover  to benefit her son and the savings she wanted  to achieve. I think 
Ms H shouldve been advised to take out a term assurance plan over 20 years with a separate 
savings plan.
 
What Canada Life should do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN34653528Ms H clearly  wanted life cover  for her son so I dont think it would be appropriate for to get back  the 
cost of the premiums  plus interest.  But I think she shouldve been recommended a term assurance 
plan for 20 years providing £100,000 of cover instead of the plan she was advised  to take out.
So I think Canada  Life should calculate what the monthly cost of a 20 year term assurance plan 
wouldve been  and deduct  this from the monthly payment for the Capital Builder plan. It should then 
calculate what  Ms H wouldve received as at 15 July 2018 if the balance  of each premium had 
achieved a return based on the Bank  of England  Base Rate Plus 1% and compare the total figure  with 
what Ms H actually  received when her plan matured. 
If the amount she wouldve  received is higher than what she did receive  Ms H has suffered a loss and 
it should  pay the difference together with simple  interest at 8% on that amount from the date Ms H 
was sent the maturity value to the date of settlement.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  Canada Life Limited  has to calculate and pay 
redress as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3465352