K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) declined  a claim 
he made on his motor insurance  policy after his car was stolen and written-off.
background
Mr K told LV that he and Mrs K had been gardening on a private piece  of land and that hed 
loaded up the car to drive home, leaving  the keys in the ignition. He and Mrs K then went 
into a sun house  behind a garage  to get changed  out of their work clothes. Mr K estimated 
that they couldnt see the car for between 10 and 15 minutes.  When  Mr K then walked  round  
to where the car had been parked, it was gone. Mr K told LV there  was a steep drive up to 
the garden, which was concealed by trees.  He thought someone walking along the main 
road at the bottom of the drive must have taken the car.
When LV declined the claim, it said the policy didnt cover loss or damage due to theft if the 
car had been  left unlocked and / or the ignition key had been left in, on, or near to the car. 
Mr K said unique circumstances  applied in his case.  The land on which  the car was parked 
is secluded as well as private, and is signposted  as private. The property can only be seen 
by walkers. The nearest  road is 30 yards away and is so busy  that there are rarely walkers 
on it. So Mr K thought it was safe to leave the key in the car occasionally.
As LV didnt change its decision,  Mr K complained to this service.  He set out all the reasons 
above for thinking LVs decision was unfair. He said the risk of someone taking the car was 
so low as to be non-existent and could not have been foreseen by him. And he said the 
model of the stolen  car was mainly  used by elderly  people. He said it wasnt worth  much and 
that he had always  thought it was unattractive to a car thief. Mr K said he and others were 
astonished that cars on private land arent treated differently.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ks complaint. She thought  LV had acted reasonably.  
She said the thief was able to access the land and the vehicle regardless of the low risk 
factors Mr K had referred to. She noted that Mr and Mrs K were  not in a position to deter  the 
thief as the car was out of their sight for 15 minutes.  
Mr K asked for a review of the investigators decision, so it was passed to me.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the wording of the exclusion in the policy for cars stolen when the car is unlocked and 
/ or the keys are left in it are clear. Mr K accepts  that was the situation here.
 
Sometimes we think there are circumstances in which  it isnt fair or reasonable for an insurer  
to rely strictly on the policy wording. But it depends  on the facts in each  case. 
One of the factors we consider is where  the car was stolen from. In this case, it was on 
private land, but that in itself isnt something  which makes a difference.  Mr K says a busy  
main road was only 30 yards away. So I think a large number of vehicles could  potentially  
have accessed  the property relatively  easily. The photos Mr K provided show that the drive 
is visible from the road. And from a thiefs point of view, a drive usually leads to something  
Ref: DRN32804322and it could be of interest.  I think if a thief decided to check what  was at the end of the drive,  
the thief would have  seen  the car and would have been able to take it quickly and easily.  
Mr K thinks  the thief must have been on foot, and he says the nature of the main road is 
such that very few people  walk along  it. But the car was stolen  and I dont  think  the thief 
was necessarily on foot. Thieves sometimes drive around in pairs looking for cars to steal.  If 
thats what happened here,  Mr and Mrs K are very unlikely to have heard a car approach.  
They were  well away from the drive  and the car, inside a building behind  a garage.  
In Mr Ks experience, most people dont access  private  drives  and take note of signposts 
indicating private  property. But I dont think most opportunistic thieves have  any regard for 
other peoples  private property  and what happened in this case is a clear  example of that. 
Mr K didnt think the car would be attractive to thieves. I think  hes right to an extent. Thieves  
looking for high end vehicles wouldnt have been interested in Mr Ks car. But I dont think 
most opportunistic thieves  are concerned about the type of car they steal.  Often the stolen 
car is used  for joy riding or in some form of criminal activity and is then abandoned.  
One of the other factors we look at if a car has been  left unlocked and / or with the ignition 
key in it is whether  the consumer was in a position to deter the thief.  In this case, 
Mr and Mrs K were  not close to the car and couldnt  see the thief approaching it. So there 
was nothing to deter  the thief from entering  the vehicle and driving off in it. 
I think Mr and Mrs K must have been very shocked  by the theft and by the fact that the car 
was later found damaged and had to be written-off. I have no doubt  that they both believed it 
was safe to leave the car unattended with the key in it. But I dont think the circumstances 
Mr K has described mean that it wasnt reasonable for LV to rely on the policy terms and 
decline the claim. So despite my great  sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs K have found  
themselves in, I cant uphold Mr Ks complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3280432