K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  gave him loans  irresponsibly.
background
This complaint relates to three loans provided to Mr C during 2014  and 2015  as follows:
Loan No Amount Date given Date  repaid Highest repayment
1 £200 12.6.14 22.8.14 £270
2 £400 22.8.14 30.1.15 £187
3 £400 31.1.15 31.7.15 £179
Loan one was a payday loan, repayable in one amount, whereas loans two and three were 
instalment loans, each  repayable by six monthly  payments. All the loans  have been  repaid.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. She felt that Mr Lender hadnt 
done anything  wrong in providing loan one. And, whilst she felt that Mr Lender shouldve 
asked for more information  before  providing loans two and three, she wasnt able to 
determine what such better checks mightve shown. As such, she didnt  consider  it 
appropriate to uphold loans two and three.
Mr C didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  
to meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing  had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN35222952There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required  to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Before each loan Mr Lender asked Mr C for details of his monthly income  and expenditure. It 
also carried our credit checks and an employment check. Mr C declared his monthly income  
to be £1,200 and told Mr Lender that his monthly  expenditure  was between £160  and £280.
Loan one
I agree  that Mr Lender did nothing wrong  in providing loan one. Against the information  
provided to it, I think it wouldve been  reasonable for it to conclude that the loan was 
affordable to Mr C. The repayment  didnt represent  a significant proportion  of his monthly 
income, and the credit  checks carried out by Mr Lender showed that Mr C wasnt  subject to 
any insolvency proceedings.
Loans two and three
Loan one had been scheduled for repayment  after 15 days.  But, the loan agreement  allowed 
Mr C to request rollovers and I can see that he did so on, it seems, two occasions.  Whereas  
loan one had originally been scheduled  for repayment on 27 June, it was ultimately repaid 
on 22 August.
On the same  day that loan one was repaid Mr Lender gave loan two to Mr C. Loan two was 
for twice the value  of the prior loan but, where loan one was a payday  loan with one single 
repayment, this new loan was repayable by six monthly instalments.
I think that, at the time he applied for Loan two, Mr Lender shouldve  considered  whether 
Mr C was experiencing any financial difficulties. I say this because:
Mr C had chosen  to defer loan one on at least two occasions by rolling the 
loan over;
Ref: DRN35222953repayment of loan one was simultaneous  with the drawing of loan two (which  
was for a greater  amount). I think Mr Lender  shouldve  considered whether 
Mr C was having  to borrow  more under loan two to cover  a hole in his finances 
created by repayment of his other borrowing. 
In these circumstances Id have expected Mr Lender to seek, more explicitly,  details about 
Mr Cs other  borrowings, including other short term loans. I cant  see that it did this. 
Mr C has told us that, at the time of this borrowing  from Mr Lender, he had other payday 
loans and had to borrow more to meet repayments due to other lenders. But he didnt tell 
Mr Lender about this.
In the light of the above, I dont think that Mr Lenders checks  went far enough. But I dont 
have any information  or evidence  to allow me to assess what Mr Lender  would  likely  have 
seen if it had undertaken the better checks that Id consider to be proportionate. This service 
has, on a number of occasions, asked Mr C to provide further information (such as, for 
example, his credit report or bank statements / transaction lists) to enable a fuller review  of 
his financial circumstances at the time of these loans. Unfortunately  we havent been 
provided with any more information.
As such,  whilst I dont think that Mr Lenders checks for loans two and three went  far 
enough, I dont  have sufficient information  available to conclude  that the loans shouldnt  
have been given. And so, whilst  I know  itll disappoint Mr C, Im unable to uphold his 
complaint that the loans were given  to him irresponsibly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3522295