K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Aviva  Insurance Limited refused a claim they made on their 
travel insurance when they cancelled a holiday because of redundancy.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  travel insurance, arranged through their bank account  and underwritten  
by Aviva.
In March 2018, they booked a trip abroad for their family, costing  in the region of £10,000. 
In around April 2018, the limited company Mr and Mrs W were joint owners  and sole 
directors of instructed an insolvency practitioner.
In May 2018, the limited company entered creditors voluntary liquidation. The liquidator  
dismissed Mr and Mrs W from their employment as directors by reason of redundancy. They  
were paid statutory  redundancy by the government scheme covering insolvent  employers.
Mr W contacted  Aviva.  They wanted to cancel their holiday because of the liquidation and 
their redundancy. They claimed on the travel  insurance, which covered cancellation due to 
redundancy.
Aviva refused the claim.  It said the redundancy cover was not intended to include situations 
where self-employed people were made redundant by their own companies. And it said it 
was likely Mr and Mrs W were at least contemplating the liquidation at the time the trip was 
booked.
Mr and Mrs W said they didnt know the company would go into liquidation when they 
booked the holiday. It all happened very fast due to problems  with litigation the company 
was involved in. They said theyd been made redundant by their employer and their claim  
should be covered.
Our investigator looked at the terms and conditions Aviva provided.  She said the terms 
required both redundancy, and for Mr and Mrs W to register as unemployed and claim 
benefits. She accepted Mr and Mrs W had been  made redundant. But they hadnt  registered 
as unemployed  or claimed  benefits.  Instead theyd  continued in the same trade through 
another limited  company.  So she said the claim wasnt covered under the policy  terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs W said the terms and conditions they had didnt contain the second part of this 
requirement. Aviva accepted it had sent us out of date terms and provided the current  ones,  
which didnt contain  the second  part of the requirement. Our investigator still wasnt minded  
to uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision.
my provisional decision
I agreed with the investigator that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld. As my reasons  were  
somewhat different to hers, I issued a provisional  decision  to allow the parties to comment. I 
said:
Ref: DRN32762132Its unfortunate Aviva originally relied on an older  version of the terms and conditions.  
Im satisfied its now provided the correct version,  and thats the version  Ill take into 
account in this decision. The current terms contain  no reference to a need to register  
as unemployed  or claim benefits.
The relevant  term says:
You can also cancel your trip if one of the following  occurs:
 if one of the following occurs:
a.you are made redundant;

What is not covered

c. Any claim for dismissal, misconduct, resignation or voluntary redundancy.
d. Any claim for redundancy if you or your  travelling companion knew of 
the redundancy at the time of opening your  [bank]  Account or booking  your 
trip (whichever is later) or where you cannot provide written  evidence that the 
reason you or your travelling companion left the job was due to 
redundancy.
There are two elements  here  the clause setting out whats  covered, and the clause 
setting out whats  excluded from the cover. Its for Mr and Mrs W to show that they 
came within the scope of the cover, and its for Aviva  to show  that any exclusion 
applies.
were Mr and Mrs W made redundant?
Mr and Mrs W say they were. Aviva says this clause is not intended to capture 
situations where a self-employed person or company owner effectively makes 
themselves redundant through closing their company or winding up their business. It 
says its aimed at genuine unforeseen employer redundancies  and this situation 
isnt one of those.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr and Mrs W provided. Im satisfied that their company  
of which  both were directors, with Mrs W acting as company secretary   went into 
voluntary liquidation. Ive seen letters from the liquidator dismissing  them from their 
positions as directors  by reason of redundancy  and making clear that they were 
employed by the company. As a matter of law and general practice, its not unusual  
for directors  even where,  as here, they own the whole  of the company between 
them  to be treated  as employees. Mr and Mrs Ws claim for statutory redundancy 
protection from the government scheme  was accepted.
Ive quoted the relevant  terms above. The words Ive highlighted in bold are similarly 
highlighted in bold in the original  and those words  have  a specific  meaning  in the 
terms and conditions. Any words  not in bold are not specifically defined, and so are 
to be understood  by the normal dictionary definition of the word. That includes the 
words redundant  and redundancy.
It was open to Aviva to limit the scope of this cover  in its wording  if it wanted  to. I 
dont think what Aviva now says was its intention in drafting  the term is relevant. 
Whats important is what the term says  not what Aviva wanted it to say. 
Ref: DRN32762133I think the evidence  shows that Mr and Mrs W were made redundant from their 
employment as directors of their company by the liquidator. In my view,  they come 
within the scope  of the policy cover  as they were made redundant within the normal 
meaning of the word.  
does an exclusion apply?
As Ive said,  its for Aviva to show that Mr and Mrs Ws claim is caught by one of the 
exclusions. In other  words, it would only be fair to exclude their claim if its more likely 
than not that:
this was a voluntary  redundancy situation;  and / or
Mr and Mrs W knew, at the time they booked  their trip, of the redundancy.
the chronology  of events
Mr and Mrs Ws company  (Company 1) was incorporated in 2004. Since 2014 
theyve been the sole directors and they  and the companys Companies House 
filings  say that they owned 50% of the share capital each.
According to Companies House,  a new company with a very similar  name 
(Company 2) was incorporated on 22 February  2018. Its sole director  and 
shareholder was Mrs W.
On 22 March 2018, Mr and Mrs W booked  their trip. 
On the same  day, Company 1s solicitor made an offer to the solicitors representing 
the other party in litigation. The offer was that both parties would drop  hands  
Company 1 would  abandon its claim, and the other side drop their counter-claim, and 
each would pay their own costs. On 18 April the other partys solicitors  sent an email 
rejecting that offer and indicating that the counter-claim would be extended to include 
other matters. Company  1s estimated legal costs to trial were,  in the context of its 
assets and profits,  very substantial. 
And, it seems,  Company  1 was also in dispute with another of its customers over a 
very substantial unpaid bill.
On 20 April 2018, the liquidators  wrote  to Mr W setting out the terms of their 
engagement. They  refer to a recent meeting at which  we discussed the financial 
position of the Company, and the subsequent meeting of the Board of Directors of 
the Company.  The Board  has concluded  that the Company is insolvent.
I dont know on what dates those  meetings  occurred. But I think the sequence of 
events is clear from the letter:
Company 1 decided to call in a liquidator;
Company 1 found and arranged a meeting with this specific  liquidator;
There was a meeting  at which Company  1s financial position was discussed  
with the liquidator;
Company 1s board (Mr and Mrs W) formally met, concluded the company 
was insolvent  and formally engaged  the liquidator;
The liquidator wrote  to Mr W.
Ref: DRN32762134The letter is dated  20 April 2018.  It seems  likely  to me that it would have taken 
weeks, not days, to go through  the process Ive outlined  above  which means  its at 
least possible the liquidation process started  before the trip was booked on 22 March  
2018. At the very least, I dont think it would have been  possible for this process to 
have started after the other solicitors rejected the settlement offer on 18 April.  
The next key date is 3 May 2018,  when  then board of Company 1 agreed to wind it 
up. The redundancy dismissal letters were sent to Mr and Mrs W on the same day.
On 18 May, Mr W was appointed as a director of Company 2. 
This, then, is the chronology:
2017  Company 1 becomes involved in (relative to its size and assets)  large 
litigation 
22 February 2018  Mrs W incorporates Company 2
22 March 2018  Mr and Mrs W book  the trip
22 March 2018  Company 1s solicitors try to settle the litigation action by 
drop hands. 
18 April 2018  the settlement offer is refused
Some time before 20 April 2018   Company 1 decided to call in a liquidator, 
identified and met with a liquidator,  Mr and Mrs W held a board  meeting and 
Company 1 engaged the liquidator
20 April 2018  the liquidator  confirms  the engagement
3 May 2018  Company 1 is wound up and Mr and Mrs W are made 
redundant
18 May 2018  Mr W is appointed as a director of Company 2.
was this a voluntary redundancy?
The relevant  exclusions  as Ive set out  are for voluntary redundancy or 
redundancy that was known of at the time of the booking. Like redundancy itself, 
voluntary redundancy  isnt defined in the terms and conditions.  So the ordinary 
meaning of the words  must apply   and not just the words individually; its a well-
known phrase in common  usage. In my view,  its well understood that a voluntary 
redundancy is a scheme whereby an employer offers employees the option to 
request redundancy, often to avoid  the need for compulsory redundancies.
In the sense that Mr and Mrs W, as directors of Company 1, decided  to put the 
company into liquidation it could be argued  and Aviva has argued  that this was a 
voluntary redundancy situation.  But I dont  think this was a voluntary redundancy 
situation as commonly  understood by that phrase.  The closure of a company and the 
termination of employment of its directors is not a voluntary redundancy.
were Mr and Mrs W aware of the redundancy when they booked the holiday?
Clearly, I cant  be certain what Mr and Mrs W knew and when they knew it. But what  I 
have to do is decide, based  on the evidence I have, what I think  is most likely to have  
happened.
The redundancy notices were sent on 3 May 2018. The holiday was booked on 22 
March. But I dont think its enough to say that this inevitably means Mr and Mrs W 
Ref: DRN32762135made the booking  before  knowing of the redundancy. Its the date of knowledge, not 
the date of the notices, thats  crucial.  In my view,  I think the exclusion means that the 
claim will fail if Mr and Mrs W knew they would be made redundant  and its possible  
for them to have had that knowledge  before the redundancy notices were sent. 
Mr and Mrs W were experienced company directors. A responsible  company  director 
would, in my view, know that an inevitable consequence of placing a company into 
liquidation is that its employees, including  directors, are made redundant.
So I think the crucial  question is when Mr and Mrs W knew that Company  1 would go 
into liquidation. Once they knew the company would go into liquidation, they would   
or should  have known that their redundancy would inevitably follow.   
The liquidators letter confirms that the board   Mr and Mrs W  had decided 
Company 1 was insolvent and should  be placed into liquidation  at some point before 
20 April 2018.
I dont have any firm evidence about  when that decision was made,  but I think  as I 
said above  its more likely have taken weeks rather than days for the process 
leading up to the 20 April letter to have happened.
Company 1 was engaged in high risk litigation well before  March  2018, and was also 
in dispute with another customer. In both cases, it was trying to recover very 
substantial unpaid bills  and in at least one was being counter-sued for a large 
amount. On 22 March  2018, its solicitors tried to walk away from one of the cases  
but the other  party wouldnt agree. Its likely instructions to the solicitor  to make that 
offer were  given before 22 March.   I also note that Company 2 was founded  on 22 
February 2018.
So by the date they booked the holiday on 22 March, Mr and Mrs W knew  that their 
company was engaged in high risk litigation  over substantial missing  income  and 
was offering not to recover one of those  debts in return for not itself being  sued.  It 
seems they had decided that Mrs W would  set up a separate company to carry on 
the same  business.  I think its likely they had already decided to engage a liquidator. 
Taking all the evidence into account, I think its more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs 
W had decided to liquidate Company  1 before 22 March 2018. If the other partys 
solicitors had agreed to drop the case its possible that wouldnt have  been  
necessary and they could have changed  their minds. But that avenue  was closed off 
on 18 April, and so the company was wound up on 3 May. 
Ive said that, as experienced company directors, I think Mr and Mrs W would or 
should have known that liquidation would inevitably have resulted  in their 
redundancy. It therefore follows  that if they knew of the impending  liquidation by 22 
March, I think  they knew   or should have done  that they would soon be made 
redundant. 
The terms of the insurance policy say that a redundancy claim is not covered if the 
redundancy is known of at the time the trip was booked.  My findings  on the evidence 
are that I think its likely Mr and Mrs W did know of the impending  liquidation, and 
therefore the redundancy, when they booked the trip. And it follows  that I dont think  
Aviva acted unfairly in refusing their claim for the cancelled trip.
Ref: DRN32762136Aviva said it had nothing  further to add to what it had already said. Mr and Mrs W didnt 
accept my provisional decision. Mr W replied, and he said:
Mrs W has never been  a director of Company 1. She was company  secretary.  The 
decision to declare the company  insolvent  was made by Mr W alone,  and Mr W sent 
me the board minutes showing that formal decision made on 20 April;
Therefore, Mr W said that Mrs W didnt  know she would be made redundant when 
the trip was booked;
Company 2 was set up by Mrs W alone,  with no involvement from Mr W. The 
liquidator made no claim on any assets of Company  2;
The decision to liquidate the company was not taken before the holiday was booked. 
An initial  discussion  was held with the companys accountant on 12 April,  and it was 
only after that discussion that Mr W seriously  considered insolvency. The solicitors 
email of 18 April convinced  him of that, and the decision  was made by the board 
(Mr W) on 20 April.
Therefore, Mr W said, when the holiday was booked it wasnt  known that the company would 
go into liquidation  or that Mr and Mrs W would be made redundant and so the complaint 
should be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mrs W was never formally a director of Company  1. However,  she was 
company secretary and a significant shareholder. The companys  last filed accounts  say the 
companys ultimate  controlling parties  are [Mr W] and [Mrs W] by virtue of their combined 
ownership of the entire issued share capital.
As company secretary, shareholder, controlling party  and indeed as wife of Mr W  I think 
its unlikely that Mrs W didnt know what was happening  if Mr W did. I think its most likely 
that, at the time the holiday was booked,  either both Mr and Mrs W knew  that liquidation was 
impending, or neither did.
Ive reviewed my conclusions about  that in light of the further evidence  Mr W has provided.  
But I havent changed my mind.
The formal  board minutes show that the liquidation decision  was made on 20 April. I found 
as much in my provisional decision.  The issue is when Mr and Mrs W knew that was going to 
happen  not when  it actually did.
Ive considered the email from the accountant  of 12 April. But I dont think  this was the first 
time Mr and Mrs W were  contemplating  liquidation. The email from the accountant  shows 
that this was the culmination of trading difficulties, cashflow problems, and debts to creditors 
and HMRC that had been building for some time  with turnover falling drastically  and 
losses sustained in the last year or so.
And Ive also considered  the minutes  of the creditors meeting, which Mr W has also 
provided. The minutes are dated 3 May, the same  day as Company 1 was wound  up. And in 
the minutes is a question  from a creditor which says that it is clear from the directors  report 
Ref: DRN32762137(which I dont have a copy of) that the company was insolvent in March. In response  Mr W 
said that the decision to place the company in liquidation was made  in April.
As I said in my provisional decision,  this case turns on what  Mr and Mrs W knew  and when 
they knew it. Thats inevitably something I cant be certain of. But it is something I can 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, based on the available evidence.
I accept that the formal  instruction of the liquidator happened on April 20. The formal  board 
decision was taken  on that day. The email  of 12 April is the formal advice from its accountant 
that the company is insolvent and should go into liquidation. But I still think its most likely 
that Mr and Mrs W knew that the company was insolvent and would likely have to enter 
liquidation well before that.
 
Its clear to me that Company 1 didnt become insolvent or enter liquidation as a result of a 
single event. Rather, there was a long period of worsening trading  conditions, coupled with 
the litigation it was party to. The company had significant debts  the creditors meeting 
minutes show that suppliers were  withholding funds for the purchase of necessary materials 
against outstanding debts   as well as cashflow problems and exposure to significant 
litigation risk. 
These were  all ongoing issues and would have  been  clear  to Mr and Mrs W at the time they 
booked the holiday  on 22 March. I think they knew the company was insolvent by then. And 
so they knew, or ought to have known,  that as a result the company would go into liquidation 
and redundancy  would follow.  In all the circumstances  I dont think Aviva acted unfairly when 
it refused the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3276213