K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  Shes unhappy with 
the service she received  after she made  a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs K was in a collision  with another vehicle in October 2017.  She said that while  her vehicle 
was stationary another vehicle collided with her while it was reversing. Mrs K informed her 
insurer Advantage of the collision. Advantage initially tried to reclaim costs from the other 
drivers insurer.  However, the other  drivers insurer disputed liability  for the collision. 
Advantage eventually settled the claim on a 50/50 split liability  basis. Mrs K was unhappy  
with this decision and complained to Advantage. Advantage  felt they had come to the right 
decision about liability. But they offered Mrs K £25 compensation for the call queues she had 
experienced while trying to get in touch  with them.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us. Our investigator thought  Advantage had dealt with the 
claim fairly. Mrs K didnt  agree so her complaint has been passed  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will now explain why.
liability
Mrs K has been very clear in explaining why she thinks  she wasnt  at fault. I appreciate  the 
strength of her feeling, especially as she believes the claim was fraudulent. Mrs K has made 
a number of detailed points supporting her case.  Ive looked at everything shes  submitted 
carefully and considered  what  shes said.  Its important  that I make  it clear that it isnt my role 
to decide whos at fault for an accident, because ultimately thats a matter  for the courts  and 
not for this service. 
Like most motor policies, Mrs Ks policy allows Advantage to conduct the defence or 
settlement of any claim. And where  appropriate,  Advantage is entitled  to admit liability. That 
means they dont  require  Mrs Ks consent  to decide how to settle a claim. And they may 
make a decision that Mrs K doesnt  agree with, if they think  thats the correct course of 
action. But Ill look to see if theyve  done so fairly and reasonably. 
Ive considered if Advantage has taken into account what  Mrs K has said about  the collision. 
Both Mrs K and the driver of the other vehicle gave differing versions of events. Mrs K said 
she was stationary and the other  driver reversed into her while he was trying to park. The 
other driver said he was preparing to park but was stationary and Mrs K collided with him as 
she tried to go around his vehicle. 
There is no further evidence or independent support for either partys version of events. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Advantage have  considered Mrs Ks version of events and 
the available  evidence. They initially tried to reclaim costs from the other  drivers insurer.  
However, the other insurer  was adamant their driver wasnt at fault based on his testimony.  
Ref: DRN36579612Advantage carried out an investigation into the other driver  which  didnt highlight any 
suspicious activity. I can also see Advantage obtained the engineers reports for Mrs Ks 
vehicle and the other drivers vehicle. Ive reviewed these reports  and neither is conclusive in 
determining liability. The other drivers  insurer wasnt  admitting  liability and was pursuing  
Advantage to accept  full liability for the collision.
The other insurer issued  proceedings  against Advantage. Given  the lack of evidence, 
Advantage tried to settle the claim on, what it considered, the best terms available  by 
proposing a 50/50 split liability. The other  drivers insurer rejected the offer so Advantage 
instructed their solicitors  to defend the case and issue a counterclaim. A few days before the 
case was due to go to court, Advantage accepted an offer from the other insurer to settle  on 
a 50/50 split liability basis.
Mrs K remains unhappy with that decision.  She said she was prepared to go to court to 
decide liability. Ive seen her submissions refuting some of the points in the other  drivers  
court statement. Its clear she was fully prepared to go to court  to defend  her version  of 
events. So it must have been frustrating when she was told Advantage had settled the claim 
as they did. Especially as she was due to go to court in a few days time.
But given the circumstances, Advantage had to make an assessment of what they thought  
would be the likely  outcome if the claim went to court. And court proceedings always  involve 
an element of risk for both parties.  Advantage says if they had let the matter go to court  they 
could have faced  significantly  higher  costs.
Taking everything into account,  I think their decision to settle the claim on a 50/50  split 
liability basis  in this instance was reasonable. In circumstances where  insurers  are faced 
with opposing  statements  with no clear route to determine which  one is most likely  correct, 
then its not unusual for insurers  to agree to settle  the claim on a 50/50 split basis without the 
additional costs  and risks of taking the matter  to court. 
I appreciate Mrs K feels frustrated by the situation, as she believes the claim was fraudulent 
and she was in the right. But I consider that Advantage acted fairly and reasonably  in settling 
the case as they did and so I wont ask them to do anything else in relation to this point.
delays and updates
Mrs K has also complained that she hasnt been kept updated  by Advantage and she had 
difficulty getting through to their call centre. Advantage has agreed that Mrs K suffered 
delays while trying to contact them. Theyve paid her £25 in compensation for these delays.
Mrs K says wasnt  regularly updated  and had to contact Advantage for updates  on several  
occasions. She raised an objection in February  2018 after receiving a letter  which said there 
was a possibility  Advantage  may settle  on the best available terms. She was told Apologies 
for any confusion but I have written to the other  party  advising that I am happy  with the 
evidence currently available and this supports us being the non-fault  party
The next update she received explained  that Advantage were making an offer to settle the 
claim by accepting a 50/50  split. I understand this must have been a source  of frustration for 
her. It would have been helpful if Advantage had given  Mrs K more  clarity around when they 
would update her about  the claim. And also if theyd  explained there was still the possibility 
the claim could be settled on a 50/50 basis when they responded to her objection in 
February 2018.
Ref: DRN36579613However, they were  still disputing liability  at the time, so what  they said was an accurate 
reflection of the action they were  taking. They also updated Mrs K whenever they received 
any subsequent  correspondence from the other  insurer. And they let her know  they were  
going to court to defend  the claim. So, Im not going  to require them  to do anything  else in 
relation to this point.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3657961