K821x#15Complaint
Mr E has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) took 
most of his wages in repayments and so he was forced to borrow  from them again. Mr E 
also says that his credit file contained  a number of defaults and so the facility  shouldnt have 
been approved.  Finally,  Mr E says this facility pushed  him further  into debt. 
Background
Mr E approached SNC  for a Safety Net facility in June  2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr E was initially  given a facility with a £450  credit  limit in June 2018. His limit was increased 
on a further two occasions  with his last credit  limit approved for £570  in August 2018.  Mr E 
stopped using his facility  in December 2018 and as of October 2019 an outstanding balance 
remained. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Es complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried  out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate,  although he did point out that the credit  file 
information along with the fact that SNC  appeared to have over estimated  his income ought 
to have put it on notice of some potential financial problems. But, ultimately he didnt think  
SNC had done  anything  wrong when it approved the facility. 
However, the adjudicator did think that SNC shouldnt have approved the second and final 
credit limit increase on 26 August 2018.  The adjudicator could see that by that time Mr E had 
take around 40 drawdowns  on the facility and he seemed to have exceeded his previous 
SNC credit limit. He also said that withdrawals were  generally taken fairly quickly after 
repaying making repayments. So he thought, this meant that SNC shouldve stopped lending 
to Mr E. 
Mr E appears to have  agreed with our adjudicator.  However, SNC didnt. It made  a number 
of points, including that Mr E used the facility  as it was expecting. As no agreement  could be 
reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im partly upholding 
Mr Es complaint and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below.
To begin with, there doesnt appear to be an ongoing dispute about  whether SNC was right 
to approved the facility, so I no longer think I need to make a finding on this. So instead, Ill 
focus on whether  SNC made an error  when it allowed Mr E to continue to drawdown on the 
facility after August 2018.
SNC had a responsibility to monitor Mr Es facility and take action where signs  of financial 
difficulty were  apparent. At the time Mr E took out his SafetyNet facility,  the regulation of 
consumer credit was the responsibility of the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
consumer credit sourcebook (section  6.7.2) says: 
Ref: DRN34531012a firm must monitor the customers repayment record and take action where there  
are signs  of actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.
During the time Mr E had the facility SNC was able to monitor the facility and Mr Es wider 
financial circumstances because it had access  to his bank statements. So it had a fairly good  
idea of Mr Es actual financial position.   
And, like the adjudicator, I think SNC  was wrong to have allowed Mr E to take further 
drawdowns from 26 August 2018, Ill explain below the way he was using the account 
indicated he wasnt using  it in a sustainable manner.  
Initially, I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC  to have  believed that Mr E would  repay the 
outstanding balance over a reasonable period  of time, which  could result  in monthly 
repayments of around £20. After all, this is what it was expected,  and the way this facility 
was designed.  But if Mr E wasnt using the facility as intended, this could  indicate  to SNC 
that he was having wider  financial  problems.  
In order to see whether  I think  it was fair to allow  Mr E to continue to draw down on the 
facility after August 2018, Ive considered the relationship between when repayments were 
made to SNC; the value of those payments and then when Mr E returned for further 
borrowing. After all, if Mr E was making  significant repayments to SNC, and then quickly  
drawing down a similar sum, this ought  to have indicated that he wasnt  using the facility as it 
was designed  to be used, and he therefore  may not have been  in a position  to sustainably 
afford the repayments.  
Looking at the transactions leading up to the credit limit increase on 26 August 2018,  I think 
there was evidence which shouldve been  enough  for SNC to have stopped Mr E from taking  
any further drawdowns. Ill set out the evidence  for this below. 
It appears that Mr E borrowed up to his credit limit by 26 June 2018 and on 
29 June 2018  made a repayment which cleared the majority of his balance.  Three  days after 
the repayment was made,  Mr E returned to SNC for further funds  taking three drawdowns 
over the next two days. Then, Mr E received funds into his bank account which enabled SNC 
to take a partial repayment. By 7 July 2018,  following the repayment,  Mr E still had a balance 
owing to SNC of around £106.
Between 8 and 24 July Mr E then took a total of 12 (indeed 10 of these occurred on 
consecutive days between 12 and 20 July)  drawdowns taking his balance back up towards 
his credit limit. On 26 July 2018, a payment was taken that cleared  all but £50 of the balance  
that was due. And then the same  pattern emerged again. From 2 August to 26 August 2018  
Mr E took 19 drawdowns  totalling £510. Again,  by this point Mr E was back  up towards his 
credit limit. 
Not only was Mr E taking out new funds fairly  quickly after making repayments that cleared 
most of his balance, I also think the pattern of the drawdowns themselves  is concerning.  For 
example, on 4 August 2018  Mr E took a £20 drawdown at 1.45pm and then two hours later 
Mr E returned for a further £50. This pattern was repeated  on 9 August and had previously 
occurred on 2 July. Mr E needing  to return to the same lending within a matter  of hours of 
taking a previous  drawdown I think shows that he was having problems managing his 
money. 
Ref: DRN34531013I accept ordinarily, the number of drawdowns isnt on its own a sign that there maybe  a 
problem, because after all the facility allowed for a degree of flexibility as to when  funds are 
taken. But given, the close proximity; frequency and value of each  drawdown,  I do think in 
this case it shows that Mr E was more  likely  than not having  some difficulties. Yet despite  
this, SNC still felt that Mr E was in a position to have his credit  limit increased from £510 to 
£570 in August 2018.   
Whilst SNC has said that Mr E could  have paid what he owed in monthly  instalments,  it had 
evidence that he was not repaying his account  in this way. And it needed to consider the 
manner in which Mr E was using the facility when it monitored the account. In my view,  given 
the frequency of drawdowns Mr E was showing a potential reliance on SNCs facility  by 
needing to borrow  each month,  borrowing mainly  up to his maximum credit limit within a few 
days of repaying what he owed. Although this wasnt a payday loan, Mr E was in effect  using 
the facility as such. 
So as Ive said, by the time of the final credit limit increase in August 2018,  the pattern had 
been established that Mr E would make multiple  drawdowns across a month then make a 
payment which  cleared  all or most of the balance.  But Mr E couldnt sustainably  afford  the 
repayments, so he would  immediately return to SNC in order to start to borrow again,  in 
order to fill a hole in his finances caused  by making  the repayments.  Essentially, Mr E wasnt  
in fact repaying his balance,  but paying interest  to service the debt over an extended  period 
of time. 
SNC had read only access to Mr Es bank statements throughout this period. So it was able 
to review and monitor his bank activity and had a fairly good idea of Mr Es financial position  
 taking into account how Mr E was using his facility. 
During the time that Mr E had the facility,  he was a frequent user of short-term loans, and at 
the time the credit limit increase in August 2018  he had three such  loans outstanding. SNC 
was also aware that he had two longer term loans, one being with a high cost provider and 
finally a catalogue  shopping account.  But, more  concerning, Mr E was making regular 
repayments for seven  credit accounts held with six different debt collections companies. 
So the number  of credit  facilities  that Mr E had coupled with how he was using the facility, in 
my view was a sign that Mr E wasnt in a position  to continue using the account and so SNC 
shouldnt have allowed  the increase in the credit  limit and or allowed him to continue  to 
drawdown on the facility.  
In my view, Mr Es account activity shouldve been  enough for SNC to have proactively 
contacted him to arrange smaller payments as permitted by the agreement and in line with 
what it would  take for the facility to be cleared within a reasonable period, rather than 
continue taking the full account  balance on a regular basis. After  all, I dont consider it fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to on the one hand argue that the facility  was affordable 
because it could be repaid within a reasonable period of time when it never collected 
payments on this basis. And the credit  agreement actually  suggests to me that there was 
never any intention  to collect payments on this basis either.
When considering  all of the information  SNC  had available to it about Mr Es circumstances  
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think  by 26 August 2018, it was 
clear that the facility  had become unsustainable  - and simply collecting the full outstanding 
balance on the account and then allowing  Mr E to once again borrow  the funds that had 
been recently collected was detrimental to his financial situation. 
Ref: DRN34531014When considering  all of the information  about Mr Es circumstances, including  how he used 
the facility and the information SNC could see in his bank statements, I think  by 26 August 
2018, it was clear that the facility had become  unsustainable and allowing Mr E to continue  
using was detrimental to his financial situation.  So Im upholding the complaint about this 
facility, and Ive outlined below what SNC needs to do to put things right for Mr E. 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr E, SNC  should:
remove any unpaid  interest fees and charges  from the current outstanding  balance and 
then refund  all the interest, fees and charges applied to drawdowns on Mr Es facility 
from 26 August 2018; 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above  
refund is sufficient to repay what Mr E owes, then the remainder of the refund should  
then be paid directly  to Mr E.
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay any outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mr E should try and come  to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order  to 
repay what  is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr E fairly;   
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit  file from 26 August 2018. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Es complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr E as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3453101