K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that a used car she acquired  under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Fowlersfinance.com Limited  wasnt of a satisfactory  quality. She wants  to reject the car and 
unwind the contract.
background 
In May 2018  Mrs C acquired  a used car under a conditional sale agreement with Fowlers. 
The car was eight years old and had a mileage of around 89,000.
Soon after collecting  the car Mrs C had problems with the cars electrics.  The lights on the 
dashboard kept going off as she drove.  Two weeks after shed acquired the car it cut out 
completely and she had to call roadside assistance.
Mrs C complained about the car to Fowlers and it was agreed that she should take the car to 
a garage for it to be inspected. As Mrs C didnt know a garage to take the car to, Fowlers  
recommended one to her. 
Mrs C says that the garage  told her the car had a large number of faults  and shouldnt  be 
driven. The garage didnt do any work on the car. Mrs C told Fowlers what the garage had 
said and it asked if the car could be inspected at its own garage to identify and repair the 
faults. Mrs C agreed to this.
The car was collected from Mrs Cs home a few days later. Fowlers says that before the car 
was collected  it was still being  used  by Mrs C.
When the car was inspected for a second time the fault was found to be with the battery and 
a new one was fitted. Mrs C was called by the garage and told the car was ready but she 
said she didnt want it back. Mrs C was asked to put this in writing but she wrote  a letter of 
complaint to Fowlers instead which didnt say she wanted to terminate the contract. As     
Mrs Cs complaint didnt comply with the terms of the agreement  for termination the car was 
returned to her in mid June 2018.
Mrs C didnt make any payments under the agreement  for the car. She says this was 
because she was told her account was on hold and not to pay. Fowlers says it told Mrs C 
she had an obligation  to pay.
In August  2018  the police  seized the car as it was being used by an uninsured driver. Mrs C 
went to the collect  the impounded car and was told that Fowlers had repossessed  it due to 
her defaulting on the payments. The car has now been sold.
Mrs C complained to this service. She said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale and she should be able to reject  it and unwind the contract. She wanted her deposit 
repaid together with the costs of the hire cars and taxis shed had to use while  she couldnt 
drive the car. Mrs C said shed found  the customer service poor and had been caused 
unnecessary distress over the way Fowlers had dealt with her complaint.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She said she 
thought it was likely that the car had a fault at the point of sale but that didnt mean the car 
could be automatically  rejected  and the agreement unwound. Mrs C had agreed for Fowlers  
to repair  the car. Fowlers said that the only problem with the car had been the battery  which 
Ref: DRN36443632it had replaced and so the car had been  repaired.  As there was no report  from the previous 
garage there  was no evidence that the car had any other faults.
The investigator said that as the car had been  driven after it had been returned to Mrs C this 
showed the repair had been  successful and so it was unfair for the car to then be rejected.
The investigator said that the car had been repossessed after Mrs C had defaulted on her 
payments and she didnt think Fowlers had acted unreasonably in doing  so. She said 
Fowlers offer to write off the outstanding balance and show  the agreement as settled was a 
fair settlement to Mrs C complaint and she wouldnt  require it to do more.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view. She said she didnt think  it had been properly 
investigated and that she wasnt warned the car would be repossessed  if she didnt make 
payments. She said she thought the payments were on hold while her complaint was 
ongoing.
The complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately there is a lot of evidence missing  from this complaint and when evidence  isnt 
available then I must decide what  the most likely  think to have happened is.
I think its agreed the car had a fault at the point of sale. Mrs C says that the car had many 
faults and was in a poor condition but Fowlers  says the problem was only with the battery  
which it replaced.
Mrs C has supplied us with a series of text exchanges  as evidence of the contact she had 
with Fowlers. Ive seen that shed initially complained about the dirty state of the car, a 
scratch on a door,  the wipers and the amount of diesel it was using.  Fowlers  agreed to cover 
the cost of the car being valeted for her. 
I have then seen  that a couple of days later Mrs C was contacted and told her account was 
in arrears. Mrs C queried why that was as Fowlers had her account details and she said she 
wanted to terminate the contract.  
A few days  later Mrs C then raised  the issue with the lights on the dashboard going off while 
driving. She said she couldnt  tell the speed she was doing and sent Fowlers a video of what  
happened. This video was sent on the day the car cut out completely.
Ive seen from the notes  of calls between Fowlers and Mrs C that the day after the car cut 
out she told Fowlers about the problem and said she wouldnt pay until the issue  with the car 
was sorted  out. Fowlers warned Mrs C that she was at risk of having the car repossessed if 
she didnt pay.
The car was then taken to a garage recommended by Fowlers. No work was undertaken and 
Mrs C says the garage advised her that the car was a death trap and shouldnt  be driven. I 
havent seen any report that confirms this was said. However, Mrs C then contacted  Fowlers  
Ref: DRN36443633and agreed with it for the car to go to Fowlers garage.  The car was collected within  a couple 
of days.
Fowlers says the car was found to have a faulty  battery and that this was replaced.  It says 
this resolved the problem. I havent  seen  any worksheets from this job but from the evidence  
Ive got Im satisfied that the car was driveable afterwards as it was being used by Mrs C. So 
I think its more likely than not that the repair worked. Mrs C says the problem reoccurred but 
I have no evidence of this nor did she raise  this with Fowlers.
While the car was at Fowlers garage being  repaired Mrs C said she didnt want it back.  But 
as shed agreed to it being repaired it was fair for Fowlers not to act on her request. It asked 
her to put her request  to terminate in writing which was in line with the agreement.  Mrs C 
didnt do this and once the car was repaired it was returned to her.
Mrs C complained to us and while her complaint  was being set up the car was impounded by 
the police  due the person  using it having  no insurance. Mrs C says that as she was getting 
no where with Fowlers she decided to use the car for a couple of weeks. She says she 
wasnt advised the car was liable to be repossessed.
Ive seen a copy  of the default letter Fowlers says was sent to Mrs C in July 2018.  It clearly 
states that her account is in arrears and that if the arrears arent cleared then Fowlers may 
terminate the agreement and seek to recover the goods. I appreciate Mrs C says she didnt 
receive this although  it was sent to her home  address  but I think in any event  its more  likely 
than not that she was aware of the consequences  of not paying.  The agreement  sets them 
out very clearly. 
I also havent seen  any evidence that Mrs C was advised by Fowlers that she didnt need  to 
make payments. And while I appreciate why Mrs C felt it was unfair for her to pay while she 
was complaining about the car she was obliged under the agreement  to make her weekly  
payments.
As Mrs C didnt  make any of the repayments and allowed the car to be used by an uninsured 
driver I cant reasonably say Fowlers  acted  unfairly  in repossessing  the car when it was 
impounded. Mrs C is liable for the costs of impounding the car.
Mrs C has also requested  that Fowlers cover all her transport costs that she incurred when 
she couldnt drive  the car. Ive seen that the agreement doesnt include the provision of a 
courtesy car. So I dont  think its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
request that reimbursement from Fowlers.
Looking at the evidence Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Im satisfied that Mrs C wasnt  
entitled to reject the car and wind back the agreement. Fowlers has offered to wipe off any 
outstanding debt and show the finance  agreement as settled on Mrs Cs credit  record.  I think 
this is fair and so Im not asking  it to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN36443634Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3644363