K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the administration of a whole-of-life policy  by Zurich 
Assurance Limited. They are unhappy  with recent information given to them about the status 
of the policy. They  say it wasnt explained that the policy could end up with no value and 
they could lose the life cover provided by the plan. 
Background
In October  1997, Mrs W took out an Allied  Dunbar  (now part of Zurich Assurance) Adaptable 
Life Plan, (a whole-of-life plan). It provided  life cover of £50,000 (the sum assured) for Mrs W 
only for a monthly  premium of £44.97. She agreed to index-link her premiums and life cover  
to reduce the impact of inflation. As a result, her premiums increased each year annually.
The policy was put in trust with Mr W as the trustee and sole beneficiary. 
In November 2005, Mr W contacted Allied Dunbar to confirm that they would be stopping 
payments into policy with immediate effect. Following this, Zurich  arranged for the policy to 
be put on a contributions holiday. From this date, Mrs W didnt pay any further premiums to 
the policy. And the policy didnt have any performance reviews due to the contributions 
holiday.   
In 2018, Zurich wrote to Mrs W to explain that the contributions  holiday facility  had come to 
an end as the value of the policy had been fully exhausted. This meant  the policy  would no 
longer provide Mrs W with the life cover  it was originally taken out for. Zurich  did offer to 
reinstate the policy and gave her two choices  to do that. Firstly, it said Mrs W could repay  
the premiums shes missed (around £8000)  and then continue  making  her regular premiums 
going forward. The other option  was to re-start her monthly contributions without repaying 
the missed premiums but the monthly  premium would need to be increased going forward.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  to either  proposal and said they were  unaffordable. They  
maintained that Zurich  should provide the life cover that was agreed when the policy was 
first taken out. Mr and Mrs W complained  to Zurich as they didnt think the policy  had been 
administered properly  since it took over responsibility from Allied Dunbar
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He didnt think  it should be upheld. In his 
opinion, Zurich had administered the policy correctly and didnt need to pay any 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with the investigators findings, so the complaint  has been passed  
to me to reach a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld   Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the details  of the policy Mrs W took out. It is a whole  of life policy meaning its 
designed to pay out on death whenever  that occurs. The key features document  (that Mr and 
Mrs W sent us) also explains, You will need  to make regular contributions, normally  each 
Ref: DRN35449272month by direct debit,  until a claim is made  on your plan. So while  the term of the plan is for 
the whole  of Mrs Ws life, she did need to keep  making payments until a claim was made. 
The policy is unit linked. This means  the money paid in premiums are spilt  some will be 
used to buy the life cover  and the rest will be invested.
Mrs W paid premiums to the policy for around  eight years but stopped paying in November 
2005. The policy does  allow for premiums to be stopped but this does have an impact  on 
how the policy benefits work. The key features document explains that depending  on the 
plans value when  the premiums stop being paid,  it can be used to continue to provide the 
life cover but only for a period. The policy document supplied  by Zurich for the Allied Dunbar 
Adaptable Life Plan further explains the impact of premiums not being  paid. It says that 
when payments stop, the cost of the life cover  is paid for by cancelling  units held within  the 
policy.  It goes on to say that if the effect  of cancelling units  is to reduce the Plan Value to nil, 
the plan will stop providing the sum assured (and other benefits). So this means  that if you 
stop paying premiums  you can have life cover but it will eventually  stop because all of the 
value in the policy has been  used  up.
The point at which the value of Mrs Ws policy could no longer be used to meet the cost of 
providing life cover  was in 2018. This was around  13 years  after she stopped  paying  
premiums  so the value  of the policy was able to be used to pay for life cover for some  time. 
But with no money  being put into the policy, it was eventually going to run out of units to 
keep the cover going. The only way for the policy to continue for the whole of Mrs Ws life 
was for her to keep  to her side of the contract and pay the premiums.  There is evidence  to 
suggest Zurich  explained to Mrs W (on more  than one occasion) what she needed  to do to 
reinstate the policy. Ive seen letters from 2008  and 2012 giving  options  to reinstate the 
policy. These were the same options as she was given in 2018   paying either the missed 
premiums or higher monthly  premiums  going forward.  I havent  seen anything to say that 
Mrs W agreed to either option but it does support she was aware action was required to 
reinstate the policy. Taking all of this into account,  Im satisfied Zurich  has administered  the 
policy in line with policy terms.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Ws comments  about how the policy has been  
administered since Zurich  took over from Allied Dunbar. They say Zurich has altered the 
terms of the policy  since  it took over and the funding  structure has changed. They believe 
the lifetime protection agreed when the policy was originally taken out was changed when 
Zurich took over the policy.  Zurich says it hasnt changed the terms. Mrs W also received a 
letter from Zurich at the time of transfer,  which confirmed the terms of the policy  hadnt 
changed.
Ive carefully reviewed the original Allied  Dunbar policy document  and the key features 
document in light of the current status  of the policy. This hasnt led me to think Zurich has 
altered the policy  terms. I do appreciate that Mrs W now doesnt have the whole of life cover  
she originally requested. But I dont think this is because the terms of the policy  or funding  
structure has been changed.  The reason the policy is no longer able provide the cover it was 
intended for is because the premiums havent  been continually paid  which  as explained  
above is in line with the original terms. So while the format of statements may have changed, 
I havent seen  anything to support that Zurich changed the underlying  terms of the policy.  
I do understand the difficult  position Mr and Mrs W are now in because Mrs W no longer has 
the life cover she thought she had. However,  Ive not found that Zurich has administered the 
policy incorrectly or are at fault for the situation.  
Ref: DRN35449273My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3544927