K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from September 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. No substantive responses were submitted.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As none of the parties has provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.  I require Bank of Scotland  plc to pay 
compensation as set out in my provisional decision below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33467352COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI in 2005,  around the time they were arranging  their mortgage.  Although it 
was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover Mr S for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagree  with the adjudicators opinion  and 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr S says that he agreed to buy the policy, knowing that he didnt  have to. So theres  no suggestion 
that Mr and Mrs S werent given  a choice  about taking it out.
Mr S was sold the policy over the phone, with the paperwork being sent out afterwards.  BoS says that 
it advised Mr S to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to him, it needed to ensure  that 
it met his needs.
Ive seen a copy of a demands and needs statement that records the answers that Mr S gave to 
certain questions he was asked over the phone. In response  to the question  Could you continue  to 
meet your regular  mortgage payment if you were unable  to work  as a result of being  made  
redundant?, Mr S has responded Yes. In response to the question Could you continue to meet your 
regular mortgage  payment if you were unable  to work  as a result of  disability and so suffered a partial 
or total loss of income? , Mr S has answered Yes.
There is then a section entitled Your Needs.  It states  To protect your regular mortgage payment 
against your income being reduced or stopped as a result of disability,  and then next to Mr Ss name, 
it says No.
Mr S therefore  has no identified need for accident, sickness  or unemployment  cover. And yet, in spite  
of this, BoS goes on to recommend that he takes out full cover. The justification for this advice is in a 
further section below entitled  Reasons  for our recommendation. It basically says that Mr S has stated 
that he has a need for such cover, but I cant see that hes said any such  thing.
As Mr S had no identified need  for the policy, BoS should either not have recommended it at all, or 
advised with caution by explaining why it was recommending the PPI in spite  of Mr S apparently 
already having other means by which to cover  his mortgage repayments.  This would have enable  
Mr S to make an informed decision about whether  or not he wished  to accept  the recommendation.
My view is that Mr S would not have bought the policy if it hadnt  been recommended  to him. Because 
I dont think hed have  considered it to be good value  for money in his circumstances. It follows  that I 
currently uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN33467353putting things  right
BoS should  put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and BoS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S made  a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, BoS can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs S.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest.  Bos must  give Mr and Mrs S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and require  Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay fair compensation as detailed above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3346735