K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has declined his claim and cancelled his 
insurance policy, because  they feel he breached the fraud condition in his contents 
insurance policy. He also feels hes been discriminated against due to his additional needs.
Background
At the beginning  of July 2018, a pipe burst in Mr Ns loft causing water  damage to his 
contents. The fire brigade attended to assist  in the emergency. And he contacted UKI and 
his landlord who Ill call P.
Mr N told UKI that the fire brigade had damaged some of his contents  and other content 
items were damaged  by the water flowing from the burst pipe attached  to the water  tank.
P arranged  for their contractors and electricians  to attend Mr Ns property to check  the 
property was safe and complete any required repairs. UKI also appointed a contractor to visit 
the property and take a video recording of the damage for UKIs claims department to 
review. Mr N explained to the contractors  that he was severely disabled and reliant on other  
people to move items from the loft as he couldnt  access it. 
Various conversations took place over the next couple of days between Mr N and UKI about 
what should happen with the contents of the property, and the work that P was looking to 
complete. Mr N explained that P needed the damaged contents removed from the property 
so they could arrange for the reinstatement work to be carried out. UKI told Mr N he needed 
to take pictures  of any items that were disposed of when  they were  being moved, as they 
hadnt yet received the video recording or been able to appoint  their loss adjusters to review 
the damaged  items. 
In mid-July 2018, UKIs loss adjusters who Ill call B attended the property and listed all the 
damaged items. Ps contractor also attended the property on the same day to remove the 
wet loft insulation  and the boxes in the loft which Mr N had wanted disposed  of. Mr N said 
some of the boxes contained several items, including  old computer consoles and books, 
some of which were first editions. Once  UKI started to investigate the claim, they became 
concerned with the information provided on the claim. And they felt that Mr N had breached  
the fraud condition of the policy. They said this was because:
There were  discrepancies  in the details given by Mr N and the fire brigade about  how 
they had entered the property, the equipment used, and the damage Mr N said they 
had caused;
Mr N had said two portable  DVD  players  were damaged  by the initial  escape of water 
which B didnt think they were  as the water  didnt smell the same  as it was on the 
other items, so felt it had come from a different source;
There were  computer  games and DVDs which Mr N requested to be marked  as 
beyond economical  repair  when B didnt think they were as they were in sealed 
cases;
There were  discrepancies  about  the items and books which had been removed from 
the loft, whod requested them to be disposed of and whether the books were  first 
editions;
There were  discrepancies  in Mr Ns versions of events when compared  to the other  
parties who had been  involved with the claim including P and B when theyd attended 
the property;
Ref: DRN36242852They felt Mr N had tried to manipulate both themselves and P by providing inaccurate  
comments and information,  and put pressure  on those  involved in the claim to agree 
a settlement;   
They were concerned about how the pipe which had caused  the leak had broken so 
suddenly;
There were  concerns about the level of damage to the carpets and whether they 
should have been  removed or not;
Because of their concerns  UKI told Mr N theyd appointed a claims inspector to review  his 
claim. After taking further statements  and reviewing all the information they had received in 
relation to the claim, UKI felt the claim had been exaggerated. 
Towards the end of November 2018,  they declined the claim on the basis Mr N had given 
false information in relation to the loss, and therefore breached  the fraud condition of the 
policy - as set out in their terms and conditions. UKI voided the policy from the date of the 
claim too. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair. He felt his claim had been unfairly delayed, and some  of his 
belongings had been destroyed by the loss adjuster when theyd removed them  from his 
property when they shouldnt have. So, he complained  to UKI. 
UKI didnt  uphold Mr Ns complaint. They  felt theyd invoked the fraud condition correctly. 
They also said the disposal  of any beyond economical repair  (BER) items  was standard  in 
these circumstances.  And that this process  had been explained to Mr N, and hed signed 
documents to say the loss adjuster could dispose  of the items. 
Mr N didnt agree so he asked this service to investigate his complaint.
I issued a second provisional decision on 18 December 2019. I said the following: 
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome as I did in my first provisional decision,  but I wanted to explain my reasons further  
and in more detail. Ive explained  this below. 
Mr N told us he feels UKI discriminated against him by saying  he doesnt have a disability,  
and they didnt make reasonable adjustments to communicate with him. Its not the role of 
our service  to make a finding on discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. Thats  
something only the courts can do. But we can take the relevant law and regulations into 
account when  thinking about  whether  a business  has acted fairly and reasonably  in the 
circumstances of a complaint. 
Ive looked at the evidence available and I havent  seen  anything from UKI disputing  Mr N 
has a disability. I have  seen that based  on the evidence available  to them, UKI questioned 
whether Mr Ns disability  is at the level he described. But I cant see anything that leads me 
to believe this has impacted the level of service Mr N received from UKI. Mr N also feels  the 
business didnt  make adjustments for his reading  disability  and wrote to him using language 
which was difficult for him to understand. However, Ive seen evidence that UKI discussed  
the claim numerous times with Mr N by phone and arranged face to face meetings with the 
claims investigator. So, I cant say UKI acted unreasonably towards Mr N. 
Ref: DRN36242853Mr N and UKI have both provided  detailed evidence about this complaint. Ive taken  on-
board all their points  although Im not going  to respond to each point individually. Instead 
Ill address what I consider to be the crux of the complaint, which  is whether UKI have 
treated Mr N fairly by declining  his claim and voiding his policy.  Where evidence  is 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on a balance of probabilities   what I think  is most 
likely to have happened given the evidence available  and the wider circumstances. And I 
have come to my conclusions based on this. 
Mr N wants UKI to pay his claim.  To decide this, I need to look at whether UKI acted fairly 
and reasonably when it used the fraud condition of the policy to decline Mr Ns claim. The 
condition says You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a 
claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. It gives  UKI the right to decline  the 
claim and cancel the policy if it has enough  evidence this condition  was breached.
It is for UKI to prove it is more likely than not, that the fraud condition was breached. So, as 
above, Ive considered all the information  provided  to me, to establish whether I think  it has 
shown this.
UKI said because of the discrepancies in information theyd seen, theyd appointed a claims 
inspector to investigate  further - to see if they were right to be concerned  about this. I 
recognise that Mr N was unhappy with this as he felt this was delaying  his claim. However, 
Ive seen there were  inconsistencies in the information UKI received from Mr N and the other 
parties involved in the claim process.  For example, how the fire brigade gained  entry  to the 
property and the items Mr N said were  damaged  by them. So, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for UKI to undertake further  investigations. 
Mr N also feels  UKI treated him unfairly by appointing certain staff who he feels had the sole 
purpose of preventing his claim being paid.  Ive listened to the calls Mr N felt were relevant 
to his case and I havent  heard any evidence that suggests this. It isnt unusual  for an insurer 
to appoint a claims investigator, and I think UKI made it clear to Mr N and the various  parties 
involved why the investigator was being appointed. So, Im satisfied  UKI acted  fairly  in this 
respect.
Ive listened to the recorded testimonies from the contractors that attended Mr Ns home. 
And Im persuaded that the information they provided to the claims investigator, combined 
with the information UKI already had was enough  for them  to fairly feel that Mr N had 
exaggerated his claim, and say that the fraud  condition in the policy  was breached.  
UKI said they felt Mr N was trying  increase the value of his claim by saying all the books that 
were removed from his loft were damaged, even if it was just one book in a set, and that 
they were first editions  when they werent.  They said Mr N wouldnt accept the valuation of 
the books despite there  being stickers with their value  on them. Mr N didnt agree. He said 
some of the books were  old and had been collected  for his children and it was B that had 
told him they might be first editions  as he didnt know  what  that was. But Im not persuaded 
this is the case.  Ive listened to calls from P where they confirm Mr N had already  said to 
their contractors the books were  first editions and worth thousands of pounds when they 
were initially  removed from the loft. And based on what Ive seen I think Mr N was fully 
aware of what a first edition book was and already  had a value  in mind before B even looked  
at the books.     
Ive also seen that there were further  discrepancies about the other items which  were  
removed from the loft by Ps contractors. Initially Mr N said it was only rubbish in the loft. He 
Ref: DRN36242854then later said there were  electrical items such as X-box and PlayStation consoles in the loft, 
which the contractors  had taken to be destroyed.  However, Ive listened  to calls with P who 
said theyd spoken  to their contractors  before  theyd  finished clearing the property and 
advised that only the rubbish should  be disposed of. P also said that anything electrical 
shouldnt be removed as UKI would need  to see this. 
Given the timeframe between P speaking to the contractors  and the rubbish actually being 
removed from the property, I think its more likely the contractors would have followed the 
specific instructions given to them by P. I also havent seen any evidence  of the items or 
proof of ownership. As there is no evidence that either Ps or UKIs contractors disposed of 
the items,  I think UKI acted reasonably in questioning if these  items  were actually owned and 
feeling like the circumstances surrounding them had been  exaggerated. 
Another key issue  UKI raised was around  some electrical items including two portable DVD 
players. Mr N said hed noticed the DVD  players  when  hed noticed  a plastic box in his airing 
cupboard. He said hed initially thought it was empty but when hed looked closer  the box 
contained water and the 2 DVD  players in a fabric  bag. However, B disagreed.  They said 
Mr N had initially presented the DVD players  to them and they werent wet. But shortly  after,  
he brought the DVD players  back to B and they were soaking wet. B also noted that the 
water didnt have the same smell and looked  like it was clean, rather  than stale  and dirty. So, 
it didnt look the same as the water coming  from the other items which had been damaged, 
and this was seen by several  of Bs staff.  
B said in their professional opinion, the DVD  players had not been damaged by the original 
escape of water and had been deliberately soaked by Mr N after theyd initially  shown to 
them without damage. There were  also discrepancies about what was contained in the 
cupboard when they were found, and if these were initially located  in a plastic  box or not. So, 
I dont think it was unfair of UKI to rely on the statements from several of Bs staff who were 
present at the time and saw the items originally dry and then later very wet. And I think  it was 
reasonable for them to note they were concerned there was a discrepancy on what  was 
damaged during the water leak, and what Mr N was actually  claiming  for.
B also told UKI they were made to feel uncomfortable and pressured by Mr N to declare 
items as BER when  they didnt need  to be - such as when they were reviewing the DVDs 
and computer games. Mr N said he questioned  what was being declared  BER because he 
couldnt see any difference between those that were  beyond  repair  and the items which  were  
classed as salvageable. And I recognise  Mr Ns comments that the games and DVDs 
couldnt be tested  at that point. However,  B said the items theyd classed as salvageable 
were all in sealed  plastic cases, and the ones marked as BER were  loose or not in sealed 
cases. So, I dont  think it was unreasonable of UKI not to treat all the DVDs and computer 
games as BER if the water hadnt been able to penetrate the sealed cases. 
Mr N also said he was concerned because one of his gaming consoles  wasnt  included on 
the list of BER items. He said he remembers it being looked at by B, and he didnt believe 
the console wasnt with the games  that B had recorded. However, Ive looked  at the itemised 
list that B produced of Mr Ns items, and it appears to be comprehensive  and detailed.  And I 
feel its reasonable for UKI to rely on the list provided by its contractors when coming to its 
conclusions. So, Im satisfied that UKI didnt have enough information to look at providing 
settlement for this item.
 
Mr N has said hes unhappy that UKI used information from his social media account to 
make a judgement  about his integrity.  UKI said based on what theyd seen, they didnt feel 
Ref: DRN36242855Mr N was being truthful about the level of restricted movement he said he suffered from. And 
they felt Mr N was exaggerating the things he couldnt do. I do understand Mr Ns concerns  
that UKI used his social media account  to make a judgement about  him. However,  its not 
unusual for insurance  companies to investigate an individual if they suspect  fraud or 
exaggeration on a claim has taken place. 
Ive looked at evidence UKI have reviewed and listened  to Mr Ns interview statements and 
from looking at these  pieces of evidence together, I understand  why UKI had concerns about 
how the water leak occurred. Ive seen that UKI obtained an expert report on how the pipe 
was damaged and given  the sliced description  of the damage, they felt the pipe could  have 
been damaged  deliberately, rather than a spontaneous  break   particularly given the claim 
happened so soon after the insurance policy being taken out. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for UKI to appoint a claims investigator to assess their concerns or for them  to 
use this as part of their decision when reviewing Mr Ns claim.
Mr N has said that various  independent parties  e.g. individuals  employed by P, have 
accused UKI of trying  to prevent paying the claim and coerced  them  into making  statements 
against him. However, Ive listened to calls between  UKI and the various  individuals 
involved, and I havent seen any evidence  from these calls, or the other information Ive 
seen, which  shows UKI was purposely  trying to not to pay the claim, or that the contractors  
were coerced into making false statements. But I have  heard the individuals  trying to provide 
UKI with a picture  of the events, which frequently doesnt match  Mr Ns. So, I think  it was 
reasonable for UKI to be concerned there were discrepancies in Mr Ns statements  
compared to the other parties involved. 
Mr N also said he feels UKIs contractors arent impartial, so their statements and versions  of 
events arent  correct. But Ive listened to the recorded  statements  and at the start of the 
interviews they were  asked to agree to a declaration.  This declaration  said their statements 
could be passed  to the police, law enforcement officials and legal representation  which 
they all agreed to. So, I think its likely the contractors wouldve given a truthful  version of 
events when questioned. And I havent seen any evidence that suggests  the information  is 
incorrect.     
Ive looked at the information Mr N has provided   both written and verbally  and Ive seen 
that his version  of events hasnt been consistent.  Ive also listened  to calls between  various  
parties to the claim where theyve said Mr N has given information that could impact the 
investigation. For example, Mr N said to P that UKI intended to take legal action against 
them because of the claim which UKI denied. Ive also read and listened to various 
statements made by Mr N which are inconsistent i.e. initially  Mr N said someone else had 
called the fire brigade about  the water whilst he wasnt at home and that theyd entered his 
property using a crowbar and had damaged items including his television. However, he then 
changed his statement to say hed called the fire brigade when he got back  from being out 
for the evening. He also stated his property had been  damaged  by the fire brigade.  But Ive 
seen a written statement  from them which confirms a crowbar  wasnt  used  and they had no 
record of damaging any items including the television  which was being  claimed  for. 
Ive also seen there were  discrepancies  about  the damage caused to the carpets in the 
property. Mr N said P removed the carpets  after UKIs first contractor came to the property 
and said they werent  salvageable. But this contractor was only there  to provide video 
evidence and wasnt visiting  the property to complete  any work. Mr N then said in different 
statements Ps contractors had ripped up the upstairs carpets because hed been told they 
werent salvageable, and hed asked them to do so. But he later said it was him that had 
Ref: DRN36242856taken up the carpet because B had told him it wasnt salvageable. However,  B had already  
told UKI they could  be salvaged, and UKI had communicated this to Mr N. Ive also listened 
to calls and seen case notes where  P have said theyd been told to remove  the carpets by 
Mr N, and that before this theyd been requested by Mr N to remove  the dryers from the 
property  without  an explanation - before the building and carpets  were  dry. So, I think UKI 
acted reasonably in reviewing these inconsistencies.   
Mr Ns policy  says, We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent,  false  or 
exaggerated. Based on the evidence Ive seen  from the various parties  who attended 
Mr Ns property, I think UKI had reason to believe Mr Ns claim had been exaggerated.  I say 
this because they felt:
The expert report obtained by UKI said it was likely the pipe had been damaged 
deliberately;
Mr N had tried to claim for books  which  were  part of a set but werent damaged, and 
said the damaged  books  were  first editions when they werent;
Mr N had taken up and caused damage  to carpets that had been declared as 
salvageable;
Mr N had tried to claim for DVDs and computer games that werent  damaged by the 
water leak;
Mr N had tried to claim for, and deliberately  damaged  two portable DVD players that 
hadnt been damaged  by the original water leak;
Mr Ns version  of events was inconsistent to the other parties that had been  involved 
in the claim.
Overall, I think UKI acted reasonably and in-line with the policy terms and conditions by 
declining the claim based on misrepresentation and fraud.  So, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly 
in voiding the policy and therefore not paying the claim.
I invited Mr N and UKI to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  UKI accepted  the provisional decision  but Mr N 
didnt. He repeated  some  of the points  hed raised previously but he also said in summary:
He felt the provisional decision was a personal attack, it was based on hear-say 
rather than evidence  and didnt  address the businesss mistakes  and reluctance to 
provide documentation;
He felt his disabilities  and supporting medical  evidence hadnt been considered by 
UKI;
He didnt agree to his furniture being  destroyed before liability had been accepted as 
he could have continued to use it. And because of a disability he didnt understand 
that he was being  asked to sign his agreement to this  and at no point was he 
offered assistance  to help him;
B had mentioned the damage  by the fire brigade and hed only repeated what  theyd  
said;
No-one knew what  was in the boxes which Ps contractors disposed  of at the same 
time as the insulation  as they were  sealed;
A surveyors report and diagram had been provided to UKI to show  the broken joint 
had been damaged  by a fatigue fracture  from movement in the water  tanks which  
had been witnessed  by himself  and Ps contractors;
Ref: DRN36242857My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . And Ive taken Mr Ns comments  into 
account, but Ive come  to the same  conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional 
decision. 
Mr N is upset that the proposed outcome isnt what he hoped for; and thats  understandable. 
Hes also said he felt the decision was a personal attack against him and was based  on 
hear-say, but Id like to assure him thats not the case. Our rules require us to determine  a 
complaint by considering all the evidence from both parties in order to decide whats  fair in 
all the circumstances.  Where the available evidence  is contradictory, incomplete, or missing,  
we reach  our conclusions  based on what is most  likely  to have happened on the balance  of 
probabilities. 
When making my decision on this case,  I have considered both the written and verbal 
information thats been provided both by Mr N and UKI which has also included phone  calls, 
statements and findings from the third parties involved, and Im satisfied the evidence Ive 
seen has been  provided by those  third parties. 
I recognise Mr N feels the medical information he provided wasnt taken in-to account by 
UKI. But it isnt my role to tell a business  how much weight they should place on the 
evidence provided  to them by a consumer.  I understand Mr N is unhappy with UKIs 
conclusions about  his level of disability, but that is their decision to make based  on the 
evidence available  to them as his insurance  company. Mr N has also told us he didnt 
understand what he was signing  when he agreed to his items being destroyed before liability  
had been accepted. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr N told B or UKI that he didnt 
understand what he was agreeing to and it needed further explanation at that point. 
Ive also noted  that Mr N said he had a friend who attended his property at various times, 
and that his father reads documents to him to help him when he cant do so himself. So, I 
think Mr N ought reasonably to have been  aware that if he was unsure on the content of the 
documents provided to him, he could have asked for assistance in reading them either from 
his friends, family or B before the items were removed or destroyed.  
Mr N has also said that it was B who mentioned the damage to his contents  by the fire 
brigade and hed only repeated what hed heard. But Im not persuaded thats  the case. Ive 
listened to the various statements and calls from and between Mr N, B and UKI and I havent 
heard this mentioned at any point. I also think its unlikely that UKI would have  contacted the 
fire brigade  to confirm  how they entered the property and what equipment  was used if they 
thought it was B that had drawn the conclusion over how items were damaged  rather  than 
to confirm what Mr N had said.  
Mr N also said that no-one  knew what was in the boxes Ps contractors disposed  of because 
they were sealed.  But I think  its unlikely that Mr N wouldve asked for the boxes to be 
disposed of without  checking what was inside  them  to at least agree there  was nothing 
valuable in them, or to check if anything was salvageable. Ive also listened  to the call 
between P and UKI where  they confirm theyd spoken to their contractors before any items 
were removed and instructed them  not to take away anything  except  the insulation.  And I 
think after being given  specific instructions  by P, its more likely the contractors would  have 
done as they were  asked and left everything else as it was. 
Ref: DRN36242858I acknowledge that Mr N told us he provided UKI with a surveyors  report and diagram for the 
broken pipe. However, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, Ive also seen that UKI 
obtained their own expert  report on how the pipe was damaged  which said they felt the pipe 
could have been damaged deliberately.  As I mentioned earlier, it isnt my role to tell a 
business how much  weight they should place on the evidence  available  to them. I can only 
make a decision on whether or not I think  they acted reasonably and in-line with the policy  
terms and conditions. And in this case,  I think there was enough evidence for UKI to believe 
the claim had been exaggerated and decline it based on misrepresentation and fraud.  So, 
Im satisfied UKI acted  fairly in voiding the policy and therefore not paying the claim.
I recognise that Mr N feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed  with my decision. 
But based  on everything Ive seen, I cant say UKI have done anything wrong. So, I wont  be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3624285