K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream,  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Lending Stream gave  Mr L three  instalment loans between April 2017  and December 2017. 
The loans were  repayable over six, monthly  repayments. Mr L repaid all the loans. A 
summary of Mr Ls loans with Lending  Stream is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
119 April 2017 300 26 October 2017
24 August 2017 200 27 December 2017
34 December 2017 600 26 April 2018
Mr L says he couldnt  afford to repay  the loans and had to borrow  again to get through the 
next month.  He says that Lending  Stream should  have realised that his debt problem was 
getting worse. Mr L says that his credit report would have shown his other debt repayments 
and the problems he was having.  He says that Lending Stream shouldnt  have lent to him. 
Mr L wants a refund  of interest and charges, with interest and negative information  removed 
from his credit record. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ls complaint. She said that she didnt think  that 
Lending Stream was wrong to give Mr L the loans. Mr L asked that an ombudsman consider  
his complaint, so it was passed to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN31355632the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mr L could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. Of course  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis  might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  I dont think that Lending Stream  was 
wrong to lend to Mr L. Ill explain  why.
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent to Lending Stream  about Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate for Lending  Stream  to ask Mr L for the amount of information needed to show  
the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information  Mr L provided at the 
time or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve 
been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr L said. Proportionate checks didnt require 
Lending Stream to ask Mr L for his bank statements in this case, so it wouldnt have seen 
that he was in difficulties. 
Lending Stream carried  out credit checks.  The information  a prospective lender can obtain 
from a credit check isnt the same  as the information Mr L can see from his own credit report. 
Based on what Ive seen,  there was nothing to alert Lending Stream  to the possibility that 
Mr L couldnt afford to repay the loans.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Ls lending history with Lending  Stream, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream  should  reasonably  have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt have provided 
any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I dont think that this point was reached.  
There were three loans over a period of about eight  months. I dont think that the pattern of 
lending, in itself,  was such that Lending  Stream should have realised that Mr L couldnt 
repay further borrowing.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr L and I dont doubt  that he was struggling financially at the 
relevant time but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Lending Stream  acted  
unfairly in lending to him. 
Ref: DRN31355633my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3135563