K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited did not extend his hire 
contract and requested the return of the car.
background
Mr S took out a two-year hire agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  in September  
2016. He contacted Volkswagen Financial  Services  on 7 August 2018 to enquire about the 
cost of continuing his lease beyond  the two-year contract.
Mr S says he didnt receive  the quote  until 30 August  2018,  after hed chased it up, but that 
when he called to agree to the price  he was told it had expired.  He says he then received a 
further quote on 16 October  2018, but as he was out of the country  with limited internet 
access, he wasnt able to respond  until he returned.  Mr S says he then tried to call 
Volkswagen Financial Services several  times  in November, but couldnt get through  so 
emailed them again on 20 December 2018.
Mr S says he received  a quote on 14 January 2019 and asked Volkswagen  Financial 
Services to phone him to discuss.  It responded with some security questions, to which Mr S 
replied on 10 Feb 2019 after also receiving  a letter. Volkswagen Financial Services  then said 
the car needed  to be returned as the contract  had ended on 28 September  2018  and no 
extension paperwork had been received. It added that it had received no contact since 
December, which Mr S denies. Mr S says he then received an email from a third party  on 27 
February 2019 telling him that his contract had been terminated and the car was being  
repossessed. Mr S says he then raised a formal complaint, and within  five minutes he 
received an email saying  his complaint  had been  resolved. Mr S adds that although hed like 
to have kept the car, he was happy to return it as long as there  were  no additional costs 
associated with that. Mr S is disputing  the additional  hire costs and the damage charges.
Volkswagen Financial Services says Mr S requested  several  extension  quotes, but he never 
returned the relevant paperwork.  It says Mr S owed a further £1,237.50  for the additional  
days he had the car, but it waived the £461.99 charge for damage to the vehicle.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. He found Volkswagen 
Financial Services was entitled to repossess the car and the charge was reasonable for the 
additional days of usage. He also considered Volkswagen Financial Services was entitled to 
charge for damage to the car. But our adjudicator did find there were delays each time Mr S 
asked for an extension quote and recommended it should pay £100 compensation for this.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that Volkswagen  Financial Services  had already offered 
to waive  the charge for damages.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the record of events provided  by both Mr S, and by Volkswagen  Financial 
Services, and I can see there were communication delays by both parties. Im satisfied  
Volkswagen Financial Services provided extension quotes each time Mr S requested  them 
and I have seen  at least four letters from Volkswagen Financial Services to this effect.
Ref: DRN33812672However, the letters clearly say Mr S had seven days in which to complete the paperwork 
and there  is no evidence that he did so at any point. I accept what Mr S says about being out 
of the country  and caring for his unwell father, but I cant conclude Volkswagen Financial 
Services did anything wrong by not extending the contract  when it hadnt  received any 
signed documentation.
That said,  Volkswagen  Financial Services did take up to three weeks to provide the 
quotations in some instances and, even then, it was after Mr S had chased it up. I can see 
from the contact notes that Volkswagen  Financial  Services acknowledged  this and 
apologised for its service. As a result, it offered to waive  the £60 administration fee should  
Mr S decide  to extend the contract. As this was following  the first delay in issuing an 
extension quote,  I consider  £100 is fair compensation to include the subsequent delays.
So, for the above reasons, I dont  find it was unreasonable for Volkswagen Financial 
Services to repossess the car. As Mr S had had it for a further 165 days following the end of 
his contract, it is fair that he should pay for this. I find the charge of £7.50 a day to be 
reasonable in this regard  and so Volkswagen Financial Services  is entitled to claim the 
£1237.50 from Mr S.
With regard to the damages to the car, Volkswagen Financial Services has confirmed that it 
agreed to waive  this figure.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited should:
Waive the charge  for damage to the car, as it has offered to do;
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for delays  in some of its communication;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3381267