K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the way Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited dealt with his annuity, 
which he says led to him not receiving any payment for several months.
background
Mr G had funds invested in a pension with Aviva. In advance  of his retirement, Aviva 
provided him with a retirement options pack, containing non-personalised  quotations. He 
decided to buy an annuity with Aviva because  it offered a better  income compared to what  
was offered on the open market. He submitted  his request through his financial adviser in 
September 2018. 
In October  2018 his adviser complained on his behalf that Aviva had delayed  setting  up the 
annuity. It was then put into payment  but the annuity  income  was less than the figure  Mr G 
expected to receive.
Mr G was unhappy about this. He said the actual income was less than the amount he could  
have got on the open  market. So he cancelled the annuity contract and asked  for his 
pension policy to be reinstated.  
Mr Gs financial  adviser then researched  potentially better annuity options and initiated the 
process to transfer  the funds to a separate provider. But because of the way the policy  was 
structured, the new provider wasnt able to accept  the transfer funds. So Mr G retained the 
policy with Aviva. My understanding is that in February 2019 Aviva carried out an internal 
transfer of funds to a different policy, as the original policy could not be reinstated. Mr G 
subsequently took a lump sum of 25% of his fund and used the rest of the funds to buy an 
annuity from a different  provider in May 2019.
Mr G complained about how Aviva dealt  with the whole matter.  The basis of his complaint is 
that:
at no time did he or his adviser  instruct Aviva  not to send comparison quotes;
if quotes had been provided,  he would have exercised his open  market option at the 
outset;
due to this error by Aviva,  his fund decreased from £98,832.32  to £94,802.98,  
although an additional payment of £733.83  has been paid to this plan for further 
delays by Aviva;
as a result of the errors he didnt receive  any annuity income for months. 
Our investigator said there was no dispute that the service  Mr G received from Aviva  was 
poor but Aviva wasnt responsible for the whole  period from September to November 2018, 
when the annuity was first put into payment. And Aviva had asked his financial adviser  for 
their permission to contact him directly to produce  a comparison quote but the financial 
adviser didnt consent. She said there  had been a short delay and without that delay, the 
transfer would have taken place sooner, but she thought Aviva  had taken reasonable steps 
to put things right by compensating  for that delay and paying  some compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr G.
Mr G disagrees.  He says there  were  errors  throughout, and whilst Aviva apologised on more 
than one occasion and paid some  compensation, he didnt receive  his annuity from 
September 2018 until March 2019 and has lost approximately £2,500 as a result. Hes 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN31891172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id expect Aviva to deal with an application  for an annuity within a reasonable time.  Mr G 
originally applied for an annuity  in September 2018.  In October  his financial adviser 
complained about delay  implementing this. Aviva then started  making payments, but Mr G 
was unhappy  when he discovered the payments were less than he was expecting
Aviva accepts there was an initial delay  in September and then a further (short) delay in 
December. It has calculated and paid compensation for the December period but not for 
September. Mr G says the whole period from September  onwards should be included  when 
calculating his loss. He says the crux of his complaint is that neither he nor his adviser  told 
Aviva not to provide comparison quotes, and he lost out on income as he wasnt  able to take 
his annuity from September until March due to all the errors. But I dont think  he was 
prevented from receiving his annuity for that whole period as a result of Avivas  failings.
Before putting  the annuity  into payment, Aviva didnt provide personalised quotes. Mr G says 
these should have been given and if they had been, he would have exercised his open 
market option  at the outset. But as our investigator noted, Aviva  asked the adviser if they 
wanted comparison quotes, in which case they would  need Mr Gs consent  to use personal 
and medical information. The adviser said they had already  done  their shopping around, so 
there was no need for this and they didnt provide Mr Gs consent. 
There were clearly some delays by Aviva. But the fact that the annuity  was substantially 
lower than the non-personalised  quotations,  and Mr G didnt know this until it went into 
payment, wasnt due to any failing by Aviva. The quotations  explained that the amounts 
werent guaranteed and wouldnt be until everything  was complete. And in this case  the 
adviser was asked and declined  to get a personalised quotation. 
Mr G has been distressed by the matter, not least as a result of being deprived of an income 
(or access to the lump sum) for significant  periods of time. But the reason comparison 
quotes werent provided wasnt  down to any failure by Aviva.  And although there  was some 
delay I think the compensation Aviva has already offered is appropriate in this instance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3189117