K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the outcome of a claim they made for damage to their home  
and garden under their St Andrews Insurance plc (SAI)  home insurance policy.  The claim 
has been declined  as there  was no subsidence damage to their house.
Mr and Mrs H have been told that in order to prevent future damage their neighbours will 
need to manage  the trees  and shrubs  in their gardens. They  are unhappy SAI hasnt 
completed investigations and produced reports that will support their position when they 
speak to their neighbours. They also want SAI to carry out a yearly site visit to ensure the 
neighbours are managing their vegetation properly and no further damage is being  caused. 
background
Mr and Mrs H arranged a home insurance policy with SAI in 2009.  Several years later they 
noticed some cracking to some walls at first floor level and reported it to SAI. We dont have 
the report from that time, but it appears they were  told the damage  hadnt been caused by 
subsidence or anything else covered by the policy.
In the spring of 2016 Mr and Mrs H reported the damage to their home had come back and 
was getting worse. SAI arranged for the property to be inspected. There was cracking in the 
house, but it wasnt due to subsidence.  However,  there was evidence  that there was 
movement causing  damage to a wall/gate,  which might be subsidence, and block  paving to 
the left of the house. This was put down to the neighbours  vegetation. The claim was 
declined as it wasnt thought the damage to the house was caused by subsidence and the 
external damage  would only be covered  if there was damage  to the main house. 
It was also explained  to Mr and Mrs H at that time that the vegetation in the neighbours 
garden was from a low water demand  group  and didnt  pose  a significant risk to their 
property. However, it was recommended that maintenance  of the vegetation be undertaken 
to limit their water demands and the growth  of their roots. SAI acknowledged that 
Mr and Mrs H had encountered difficulties in having maintenance done in the past and it 
confirmed it had written to the neighbour in the past. However, in the circumstances SAI said 
it wouldnt be able to take legal action to force  the neighbours to maintain the vegetation.
Mr and Mrs H called  SAI again  the following year as they were still concerned about the 
damage and possible  subsidence movement. A loss adjuster was appointed to inspect the 
property. It was detailed  in the loss adjusters report that Mr and Mrs H were also concerned 
about the risk posed by the neighbours trees. It was concluded the internal cracking  was 
due to deflection  in the floor supports and not subsidence. This damage wasnt  covered by 
the insurance policy.
The damaged garden wall was considered to have been damaged by a combination of 
shrinkage of the underlying clay subsoil  (subsidence)  and direct action of tree roots.  Both 
these issues were  attributed to the nearby trees (in the neighbours garden). As for the 
damage to the block paving it was concluded  it could be due to a number of factors including  
seasonal movement of the clay subsoil,  poor installation or water action washing fines  out of 
the subbase. As there was no subsidence damage to the house,  it was confirmed there  was 
no cover  available  for any external damage  caused  by subsidence. The loss adjuster said it 
would write  to the neighbours and notify them of the potential risk posed by the trees and 
request appropriate  tree management be undertaken. It has recently been confirmed this 
letter wasnt  sent.  
Ref: DRN39206762In May 2018  Mr and Mrs H contacted SAI again as there were  tree roots showing through  
their block  paved patio. They didnt agree with its previous conclusion that there wasnt 
ongoing subsidence causing the damage. Whilst SAI wasnt initially inclined  to have the 
property inspected again, it subsequently  agreed to do so.
Due to poor customer service Mr and Mrs H complained to SAI. It acknowledged there had 
been a delay in appointing loss adjusters to inspect the property  again  and there  were  
occasions where Mr and Mrs H were promised SAI would  call back, but hadnt.  SAI 
apologised for the upset  and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused them. It 
paid them £100 to cover  the cost of telephone calls theyd made and for the inconvenience 
theyd suffered.
The loss adjusters 2018 report, completed shortly thereafter, found the same thing as the 
previous inspections  there was no evidence the house had suffered from subsidence. 
However, there might have been a small  amount  of subsidence causing  damage to the hard 
landscaping outside. It was noted that the loss adjuster thought  much  of the damage in the 
garden was caused  by tree roots growing  and lifting/pushing on elements of the hard 
landscaping; moving it. It was again  confirmed that there was no cover available for the 
damage to Mr and Mrs Hs property.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with SAIs  handling  of the claim and werent satisfied with 
its response to the claim. 
SAI responded  to the complaint.  It reiterated  the loss adjusters findings; that the damage in 
the house wasnt consistent with subsidence and whilst there may have been some minor  
subsidence outside, it wasnt covered because there  was no damage to the main house.  
However, SAI found that some of Mr and Mrs Hs calls to the complaints department could 
have been handled better and they hadnt  been given the service  they could reasonably 
expect. It also acknowledged the loss adjusters report  hadnt  been assessed in a timely 
manner. It apologised  for the problems and paid Mr and Mrs H £50 for the poor call handling 
and £100 for the delay in assessing the report. 
Mr and Mrs H responded  to SAI and said they took comfort that their property hasnt suffered 
subsidence damage. However, the loss adjusters comments  dont allay their concerns. They 
pointed out the engineer had flagged up that there is an abundance  of mature deciduous 
and coniferous vegetation  within root spread distance of the property. Roots that may, at 
some future date, jeopardise soil stability and precipitate damage. Mr and Mrs H highlighted 
that they had no control over the neighbours trees. They wanted assurance that the loss 
adjusters comments wouldnt affect  the cover provided by the policy  and that matching 
cover will remain  in the future without undue premium increases.  
In addition, Mr and Mrs H said that they considered it would be sensible for SAI to contact 
the neighbours and place them on notice of a possible third-party action in the event of 
future problems associated with the uncontrolled growth of the vegetation on the neighbours 
side of the boundary.  Mr  and Mrs H thought it logically followed that it would be sensible to 
continue to monitor the situation  because  this could provide essential evidence  in the event 
of there  being a valid subsidence claim and SAI wanted to pursue recovery  of costs against 
the neighbours.
SAI assured Mr and Mrs H the policy cover  remained the same and the claim shouldnt have 
an impact on the premium. It said it couldnt guarantee the premium wouldnt go up though, 
Ref: DRN39206763as there  are lots of other factors  that influenced the price. It confirmed that as there was no 
subsidence occurring  to the main  residence,  there is no need for further monitoring of the 
property. It also said that it would only normally write  to Mr and Mrs Hs neighbours if an 
arborist had been  involved, which didnt happen in their case  because  there  was no 
subsidence damage to their home.  It suggested they might want  to show the loss adjusters 
report to the neighbours.
SAI subsequently confirmed it was only able to assist with a valid claim and it wouldnt 
continue to monitor a property it had determined wasnt subsiding.  It said it was unable to 
help Mr and Mrs H any further.
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with SAIs responses and referred it to us. One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt recommend  it be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with the investigators  conclusions. They  provided  some further 
photographs of the internal and external damage. They commented  that there is absolutely  
no way this is normal and couldnt comprehend why the insurers  didnt do site investigations 
and obtain an arborist report.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H are clearly  concerned about  the possibility of their neighbours shrubs and 
trees causing damage to their home,  given its built on a clay soil. However, none of the 
evidence I have seen  indicates their house is, or has, suffered from subsidence. There  is no 
alternative expert evidence that contradicts SAIs experts, so I see no reason to question 
SAIs experts conclusions.
An insurer  will only act where its liability has been engaged under the policy  thats in place. 
Like most buildings insurance policies, Mr and Mrs Hs policy only provides  cover for 
subsidence to structures and hard landscaping in the garden if the main  building  is 
subsiding. As there is no subsidence damage to the house, SAIs  liability hasnt been 
engaged and I dont consider it was unreasonable in declining the claim.  
SAI has said there  might  be some minor  subsidence to Mr and Mrs Hs garden structures. 
However, I note from the pictures and comments from Mr and Mrs H that there are roots 
visible at the site of some  of the damage.  Whilst subsidence damage caused  by the local 
vegetation dehydrating the clay under the foundations of the house would be covered by the 
policy, damage caused directly by the growth of roots isnt covered  by the policy.  So where  
plant roots have  grown and displaced the block paving, as can be seen on some of the 
photographs provided, there  wouldnt be a valid claim. 
I know that Mr and Mrs H would  like SAI to complete investigations so they could use the 
resultant reports when discussing their concerns about the vegetation with their neighbours. 
They would also like SAI to get involved in those discussions by notifying  the neighbours of 
the risk of future damage. 
Investigations are expected of an insurer if they are needed to establish  liability or, if there is 
a valid claim,  they are needed to determine  what repairs should be done.  In this case  neither 
of those scenarios  apply.  So, I dont think it was unreasonable for SAI not to complete any 
Ref: DRN39206764further investigations when it was satisfied  there  wasnt a valid claim under the policy.  
Furthermore, given the experts consider its unlikely the vegetation will cause the house any 
problems, I wouldnt expect SAI to get involved in discussions  with the neighbours. 
I can understand that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  about what  has happened in their garden.  
However, an insurance policy doesnt  provide  cover  for every eventuality  that can happen to 
a property and its garden.  Such  policies  also only deal with things  that have actually 
happened, so we wouldnt expect  an insurer to take preventative actions to stop an insured  
peril occurring or to monitor  a property for an eventuality that may never  happen. It is for the 
homeowner to inspect  their home for damage or problems and, if they believe they are 
covered by the insurance policy, to contact  the insurer. 
I know that this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but I dont  consider  SAI has acted 
inappropriately in relation to their claims beyond the customer  service issues  already 
identified.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 September 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3920676