K821x#15complaint
Mr K complaints that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd is recording a default on his credit file when he
wasnt aware of it. Hes unhappy that Lowell contacted him at an address he says he didnt 
live at and wants Lowell  to remove the default  from his credit file.
background
Mr K took out a loan with a company but wasnt able to keep up with his repayments. So in
late 2017, this lender  sent Mr K a default  notice.
In May 2018, Lowell bought the outstanding debt from this company.  Lowell  wrote  to Mr K at 
an address that it found as part of its tracing  process. By September 2018, Lowell had 
received a series  of balance adjustments from the original  lender which  brought  the 
outstanding balance to zero. Lowell says that it closed Mr Ks account as a partial settlement.
Mr K complained, saying  that he didnt receive the default notice. Mr K also says that he
didnt know that Lowell  had bought the debt as he wasnt on the electoral roll at the address
that it used. Mr K says he had never  lived at the address and hadnt  visited it in over ten
years. But Lowell didnt think it had done  anything wrong. So Mr K brought his complaint to
this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ks complaint be upheld. He explained that as the
original lender had defaulted Mr Ks account,  hed only looked at whether Lowells actions,
since it bought  the debt,  had been fair.
The investigator thought it was reasonable of Lowell to write  to Mr K at the address that it
found through the tracing service.
Mr K wasnt  happy with the investigators recommendation. He says that Lowell applied  a
default before it had bought the debt. Mr K is confident that a default from the original lender
never appeared on his credit file.
Mr K questioned why Lowell  didnt write  to him at the address which the original lender gave.
And that hed had no involvement with the address that Lowell used for many years. He
asked for his complaint to be considered by one of my ombudsman  colleagues.
The ombudsman explained that she intended to uphold  Mr Ks complaint in part. She didnt
think Lowell  should  remove the default, where she felt it had been correctly reported  based
on the information Lowell was provided by the original lender.
But she did note that by the time the original lender sold the debt to Lowell, it had in fact 
been partially settled.  So she didnt think that the debt shouldve been sold to Lowell. She 
appreciated that Lowell  said this wasnt due to any fault on its part. But she felt that as a part 
of its due diligence,  had it asked for more evidence of the debt before purchasing it  then it 
wouldve discovered that Mr K had settled this.
She added that there were opportunities after this where  Lowell received balance  
adjustments that she felt were opportunities for Lowell to have double checked things here. 
She felt it was fair for Lowell to pay Mr K £200  for the worry he wouldve had in finding  an 
entry on his credit file he didnt recognise and for having to get to the bottom of finding  out 
why a settled  debt was appearing on his credit  record.
Ref: DRN33630032Mr K didnt agree this was fair and said (in summary) that Lowell had breached  the relevant
rules here and that the default  should be removed. Lowell didnt respond before the
complaint was passed to me.
When this complaint was passed to me, I got in touch with Lowell and provided  some
observations I had about this complaint. I asked whether in light of these, Lowell would be
willing to remove the default.
Lowell says that when it purchased this debt,  it did so in line with its usual process  for doing
so. It purchased it in good faith from the original lender, which provided information showing
that it was a valid debt that was still owed. So it sought repayment from Mr K on that basis
and reported the status  of the account to credit  reference agencies.
Lowell has explained  that it was only in September 2018 that it received the final balance
adjustment that settled the outstanding balance. It amended the information it was reporting  
to reflect  this and continued to report the default where it viewed  it to be correctly  recorded.
I issued a Provisional  Decision on 26 February 2021 where I said the following:
Ill start by saying that Ive carefully  considered  what Lowell has said around  the fact that it
has followed  its processes here.  Lowell  has explained that what  its done is in line with its
business model, in terms of taking proportionately diligent steps when  purchasing debts.
I dont intend to criticise Lowells processes and business model in a general sense in this
decision.
Instead my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable  in the individual  circumstances of a
complaint. In doing so, there  may be times when strictly applying  processes or sticking to an
established business model leads  to an unfair  outcome for a customer in their individual
circumstances. In my view, this is whats happened  here.
Ultimately, the main issue is that Lowell purchased a debt that had already been settled.
Both sides accept this. Its unfortunate that Lowell wasnt told this prior to the purchase, but
as of September 2018, it was aware  that the debt had been settled. I realise that Lowell says
that it had no way of knowing this when  it purchased  the debt and I accept that. But it knows
this now and so Ive considered whether its fair that Lowell has chosen to still report  this
information on Mr Ks credit file.
I cant say it is though. The debt may not have  shown  as being settled when Lowell
purchased it and it may have thought it was entitled to seek repayment of this while  it didnt
know otherwise. But, now Lowell knows that there wasnt a debt owed at all.
While Lowell  may have  purchased  the debt in good faith and initially  chased it on this basis,
it received a series  of balance adjustments. Lowell says it didnt check  with the original
lender and it wouldnt usually do that. Again, I accept this is its business  policy  not to do so.
But this has again  led to an unfair  outcome for Mr K here. Because  had Lowell have done
so, it wouldve discovered that the debt had been settled much sooner than it actually did.
So in effect,  Lowell is reporting information about  a debt that should  have  never been
pursued. Lowell  says that the default  should  be reported  because  it was accurately
registered by the original  lender. Ive taken that on board here. But in thinking about what
should have happened,  I think Lowell now knows that this debt should never have been
pursued in the first place.
Ref: DRN33630033Ultimately Mr K never  had any dealings with, or obligations to, Lowell beyond  making  a
complaint to it. He never owed it any of the payments it may have asked him to make.  So I
dont think its fair that Lowell now reports  information that shows  its involvement with this
debt, where it doesnt give a fair or fully representative picture to other creditors.
For clarity,  I realise that Lowell shouldnt be held responsible for any acts or omissions made
by the original creditor. But this decision is focused  on Lowells decision to continue  reporting
what it is on Mr Ks credit  file, rather than what was reported by the original lender.
With that in mind, my suggestion here isnt that Lowell should just remove the default.
Instead, I think Lowell should remove any reference of the debt from Mr Ks credit file. I
realise Lowell think that this doesnt  give an accurate picture  of what actually happened
here. But I think that by doing this, it would reflect what should  have happened here. To be
clear, I accept  that Lowell  are technically entitled  to record  that it pursued Mr K for a short
time here, but for all the reasons Ive already given here, I simply dont think  that leads to a
fair outcome for Mr K in the individual circumstances  of his complaint.
Thats especially true given that Mr Ks credit file shows that this entry  on his file is the only 
clearly adverse piece  of information on there. Unusually, the original creditor didnt report the 
default. But that was its choice as a business. Im focusing on Lowells involvement here and in 
continuing to report this as it is, I think its likely to have a real impact on Mr K where  this is the 
only record of this particular debt on his credit file. So I can see that this will certainly  be causing 
him a great deal of concern, where  hes shown  hes maintained his payments to other  creditors.
I know Lowell has concerns that by removing the default, Mr K would be, in effect, benefitting
from the fact that the original creditor chose not to report  information  to a credit  reference
agency. But Im not making any sort of finding  on what  the original creditor did  only on
Lowells choice to continue reporting  this. And while I realise that the default  may have been
correctly registered  by the original  lender, that doesnt mean  that its fair for Lowell to keep
recording this here,  where I dont  think its fair that it records  information about this at all.
In saying all of this, Im mindful  that Mr K has raised  a number of concerns about the validity
of the default in terms of the address it was sent to and some  confusion surrounding this. But
the effect of what  Ive said above  is that I think its fair that Lowell removes  the default and
the other information  from his file, so I wont cover  those  points  in any detail here, other than
to say that I agree with many  of colleagues  points here, but have obviously reached a
different decision here around whats fair.
Ive also thought about whether what my colleague said about  Lowell having to pay Mr K 
compensation for his trouble and upset should  stand.  I agree that finding  out that there was an 
unexpected entry on Mr Ks credit file and having to take steps to understand why this was 
there wouldve been confusing and frustrating  for him. And Lowell could have thought about 
the fairness of continuing to report this information more when he contacted it too. So I think 
that Lowell  should pay £200  to compensate him for the impact this will have had on him.
Ref: DRN33630034Mr K responded and accepted my findings,  but Lowell said that it was concerned  at my 
suggested outcome.  It said (in summary) that my colleague had confirmed the validity  of the 
default in her provisional decision. Lowell added that the original lender confirmed the status 
of the debt and that it started  reporting  this to reflect the change in the legal ownership of the 
debt. The original lender has not exercised its right to purchase  the debt back and that the 
continued reporting of the default is an accurate representation of the account  history. Lowell 
also said that it was concerned  that any proposal to remove the default would, in effect, 
mean that the debt was hidden from other potential lenders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  what Lowell has said in response to my provisional decision. As Ive 
said previously, I do understand that Lowell  has followed its processes and that it views the 
default as valid.  And Ive taken into account what my colleague has said in her provisional 
decision too  but have  reached a different outcome and given Lowell and Mr K the 
opportunity to respond. In doing so, I appreciate that there  may be an argument to say that it 
would be technically correct to report the default  here. 
But my remit is to look at whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. 
Having done so  I still remain of the opinion that its fair to remove any record of the debt 
from Mr Ks credit  file and pay him the compensation I suggested.
I realise that the original lender hasnt exercised its right to purchase the debt back and that 
it chose not to report the default itself. The debt was settled  before it was purchased by 
Lowell and so while the lender couldve bought it back  and made  the adjustments,  it didnt do 
this. But that doesnt change my view that it remains unfair  that Lowell is now choosing  to 
continue reporting  this. As I said in my provisional decision, Im only considering  Lowells 
involvement in this complaint and in the individual circumstances  here  I dont think  that 
continuing to report the default  is fair.
Thats not to say that it would always be unfair  to report the status of an account in similar 
circumstances. But my decision  has to be based on the very particular set of circumstances 
of this complaint.  And, as Ive mentioned  in my provisional decision,  there  are a number of 
reasons that I dont  think that reporting the default is fair here. I can see where Lowell is 
coming from in terms of this having the effect  of hiding the debt. Thats  something I 
referenced in my provisional decision. But again, I dont think  that this would mean that the 
debt was being wrongly hidden from potential creditors.
This is a historic debt and, in the circumstances,  I think that by not reporting this it would give 
a fairer and more balanced picture  of Lowells  involvement with Mr Ks debt than by 
continuing to report it. I see that the issue here is that because the original lender chose not 
to report this, it will disappear from the credit  file by virtue of what Im suggesting. But I dont 
think thats unfair, or disproportionate here. And I cant comment  on the actions of the 
original lender, only Lowell. I dont think  that the way the lender chose to report this should 
mean that Lowell shouldnt  now take steps to reach  a fair outcome. 
Ref: DRN33630035So, while I realise  that Lowell will likely  continue to still disagree with my findings  I remain 
of the opinion I set out in my provisional decision of whats fair to put things right here. And 
its this Ill be telling  Lowell to do to resolve  this matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd should remove  any record  of this debt from 
Mr Ks credit  file and pay him £200  to compensate  him for the confusion  and frustration 
caused here.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3363003