K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr R says Nationwide  Building Society  (at the time Cheshire Building Society) mis-
sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr R case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr R says that he was told that if he didnt take out the MPPI,  he wouldnt be able to get the 
mortgage he was applying for. I cant know  what was said at the time, and Mr R hasnt said 
much about  this either. So I have to base my decision on the information  I do have.
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr Rs mortgage  application. I can see on this that the 
MPPI is presented as an optional product, and theres also no indication that an application 
including MPPI would be looked  at more favourably  either. I can also see that no MPPI was 
selected at this time. Nationwide  has also provided a copy  of Mr Rs MPPI application which  
was completed several months after his mortgage application  and after hes been  sent a 
letter confirming that his mortgage was already  in place.
So with this in mind, I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the 
MPPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  
this as it was so long ago.
Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr R so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr R got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr R about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think he chose to take out the MPPI - it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the MPPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr R.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr R because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN30262272To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr R any extra  interest 
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr R the extra he paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Nationwide  should also pay 
Mr R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr R.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3026227