K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  unfairly rejected a 
claim they made under a buildings  insurance  policy.
Background
I sent the parties my initial findings on this complaint  in October 2019. I explained in a 
provisional decision, which is attached to this decision, why I intended to uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint. 
In summary,  a chimney stack at Mr and Mrs Hs home suddenly  and unexpectedly  
collapsed. They had insurance under an all-risks policy which covered all risks of damage 
unless an exclusion applied. RSA rejected  Mr and Mrs Hs claim based  on poor 
workmanship and deterioration  of lime mortar  over hundreds of years.  And RSA said that the 
damage was caught by policy exclusions relating to loss or damage caused by:
inherent defect; alteration; renovation, repair, restoration or the like; defective design;  
defective workmanship or the use of defective  materials; wear, tear and gradual 
deterioration.
I explained the various differing views of the experts  and that it was only late on that RSAs 
expert changed his view on what he originally and erroneously considered  to be the cause of 
the damage. A company (M) instructed by Mr and Mrs H provided a report about the 
damage, albeit  the rubble  and debris had been cleared away by the time M attended  Mr and 
Mrs Hs home. M said over time lime mortar  would  perish but any degradation behind  render 
would not have resulted in sudden collapse.  I commented that this wasnt as persuasive as a 
report that said the mortar, in the chimney  stack, had actually perished. There  was no such 
report.
M also made other observations including;
The chimney didnt  serve any structural purpose.
Some internal chimney  adaptations were of inferior quality.
The chimney was not supporting the gable wall.
The inward collapse likely suggests  inferior  build, which may have caused 
loss of vertical or lateral support for the brickwork above.
There were  no penetrating  roots on creeper vegetation on the chimney and 
so wasnt a cause  of the collapse.
It was also apparent from a solicitor  (and unchallenged by RSA) initially  helping Mr and 
Mrs H that there was no structural problem with the chimney when the home was purchased  
some thirty years previously. An engineer had informed the local county council of this but 
had pointed out that some of the brickwork  at the base showed  deterioration.  The solicitor 
said repairs had been attended to promptly by Mr and Mrs H. In addition, a builder had 
carried out further maintenance to the roof and chimney in 2017. Evidence was provided  to 
RSA and its experts also had an opportunity to speak with that builder on site at Mr and 
Mrs Hs home.
I discussed legal cases that RSA had referred  to and other  more  general conditions of the 
insurance policy. I explained why I thought the (main)  case RSA relied on was 
distinguishable from Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and that I was satisfied theyd 
maintained the building in a good state  of repair and taken all reasonable steps to minimise  
Ref: DRN31759212the risk of damage.  And with respect to the differing  experts opinions, I wasnt satisfied that 
the main cause or the mechanism of failure had been established on the balance of 
probabilities.
In conclusion, I was minded  to determine that Mr and Mrs H had an insurance policy that 
covered them for all risks of damage  unless an exclusion applies. And where RSA seeks to 
invoke an exclusion it bears the burden of proving the exclusion applies.  The circumstances 
of the claim were that a maintained property, having  had significant and recent work carried 
out on the chimney, stood for a long period of time and then suddenly  and unexpectedly the 
chimney collapsed.  Why the chimney  collapsed had not been established in my view to the 
required standard. And in these circumstances, I reflected  on industry rules that say an 
insurer must not unreasonably  reject a claim.
To put things right I said RSA should  refund costs  incurred  in removing the debris/rubble,  I 
set out options  for dealing with the claim and pay £1,000 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Replies to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H accepted  my provisional decision and had no further substantive points  to 
make. RSA disagreed with me and made several  points which Ive summarised below;
There is a strong  legal defence and Mr H had informed RSA that he would take legal 
action.
RSA accepts I can uphold the complaint based  on whats fair and reasonable, but 
that I appear to be justifying an uphold based on the legal position.
RSA accepts that opinion on causation evolved  over time.
Ms report  concluded  adaptations  were  of inferior quality, newer brickwork hadnt  
been bonded to the original, lime mortar perished over time and these factors were  
the cause.
RSAs engineer said of Ms report that the collapse was initiated by failure  of historic 
brickwork inside the flue. It is speculated  that a section of the flue failed in part due to 
progressive soot related deterioration  to the lime mortar.
The load from this falling debris  damaged the walls of the [chimney] stack leading  to 
downwards vertical collapse.
In changing  his original opinion, the potential trigger  for the collapse as suggested by 
M was perishing of the lime mortar due to soot effects. This is a long-term process  
that has led to gradual deterioration in the strength of the construction.
Compliance with general policy conditions does  not broaden the scope of insurance 
cover.
Cover isnt widened  because of the age of a property, even if RSA is aware.
There was no external event but an internal defect.
An insurer doesnt have to show negligence or personal blame just that adaptations 
[renovation, repair, restoration  or the like] were not fit for purpose.
RSA doesnt  accept that sympathy or absence of fault is a reason to pay a claim.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive considered  RSAs  detailed 
response.
Ref: DRN31759213The starting point  is that my decision is not based  on sympathy for Mr and Mrs H nor am I 
justifying a decision based on the legal  position. I am mindful that my determination of this 
complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). These  rules  
say I must make my decision  by reference  to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.4R  says I need to take into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time.
My references to the law, as put forward by RSA, reflect  the fact that Im taking it into 
account. I disagree with RSA that Mr and Mrs Hs situation shares significant similarities 
with the main case it referred  to, and Ive explained why. But even if RSA is right, Im not 
persuaded that an outcome in line with that position  as stated by RSA leads  to one thats  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. In summary, and Ill expand  on 
this later,  I remain satisfied that the expert opinions are equivocal  with respect to why the 
chimney collapsed.  This is to the extent that the main cause, or mechanism of failure, has 
not been established, in my view, on the balance of probabilities.
Ms observations were  that it had seen many chimneys where the perishing of mortar  had 
not caused the chimney to collapse, the brickwork continuing to stand despite the loss of 
mortar, like a dry-stone wall. And M said the cause was probably a culmination  of defects 
including the various alterations to the chimney and to the flues, poor workmanship as well 
as the perishing  of the mortar.
I remain satisfied that on the balance of probabilities  the cause  of collapse hasnt been 
definitively identified. While I appreciate M has given a culmination of potential  factors,  
RSAs original opinion  on causation was very different. So, even with the expert  reports they 
are a matter  of professional opinion and I must assess them with a view to whats  persuasive  
on the cause of collapse to the standard of the balance  of probabilities. There is an apparent  
amount of speculation  and in deciding whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances, 
Ive considered this against the backdrop  of Mr and Mrs H having an all-risks policy.  Mr and 
Mrs H do not have  to identify or speculate on a possible cause  as all damage is covered 
unless excluded. And for reasons given  Im not persuaded RSA has demonstrated  that it is 
more likely than not an exclusion  applies.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im satisfied RSAs  rejection 
of Mr and Mrs Hs claim was unreasonable. All risks of damage were covered by the policy 
and the property was maintained as per the policy conditions. Theres  been  speculation  as to 
the potential causes but not such that Im persuaded identified the cause on the balance of 
probabilities. In these  circumstances it is, in my opinion, unfair to reject  the claim.
Ref: DRN31759214my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the 
following;
refund  the cost Mr and Mrs H incurred  in removing the rubble/debris
oadd simple interest of 8% per year1 from the date Mr and Mrs H paid this to 
the date payment is sent, subject to proof  of payment.
Deal with the insurance claim, which will be subject to policy limits and applicable 
excesses, by one of the following;
oRSA to instruct its own contractors  to carry out the repairs
oIf Mr and Mrs H dont want to use RSAs contractors, then RSA must pay a 
cash settlement based on the detailed costing of its contractor (in simple 
terms RSA will pay no more than it would to its own contractor)
oIf RSA doesnt want  to instruct contractors, then it must pay a settlement 
based on the market rate of repair so that Mr and Mrs H can instruct  their 
own contractors. To establish the market rate RSA should obtain and pay for 
two quotations  from surveyors  or building contractors capable  of costing or 
carrying out the work (in simple  terms this means that RSA doesnt benefit 
from the discount it might  obtain  by using its own contractor).
Pay Mr and Mrs H £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience2.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to take off tax from this interest. Royal & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc must give Mr H and / or Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
2 RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs H accept my final 
decision. If RSA pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple, which will be subject to footnote  1.
Ref: DRN31759215Provisional decision dated 22 October 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  has unfairly rejected a claim 
they made under  a buildings insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H purchased their home almost thirty years ago. It was originally built in the early 17th 
century and this was disclosed to RSA when insurance  was bought.  
Mr and Mrs H told us that last year part of their home, a chimney stack, collapsed suddenly  and 
without warning and so they made a claim under their insurance policy. RSA started an investigation 
instructing a loss adjuster  (Ill call Q) to examine  the damage and establish  whether it was covered  
by the policy.
Q issued  a report dated  15 May 2018, which had various pictures including  the rubble  at the base of 
the home and substantial damage to the homes gable end wall. It was noted  that it appeared 
structurally stable. Observation was also made that the top section of the chimney leaned inwards, 
most likely caused by long term moisture  expansion of the exposed  brickwork  compared  to the other 
side which would have had little exposure. And the inward lean had, in Qs opinion,  happened over 
time and was apparent in images  from 2011, as well as letters from when Mr and Mrs H had bought 
the property.  The report concluded that the root cause of the collapse was the leaning  chimney breast 
over the height of the gable.  
What Q couldnt explain  was the timing of the collapse. The author thought the chimney  would have 
been more vulnerable to collapse before maintenance  works carried  out the year previous. It was 
acknowledged that the collapse was sudden and unforeseen  without warning and so RSA may 
consider the damage  as arising accidentally. But also acknowledged that there was a conclusion  the 
inward lean was the cause of the collapse.
Q was specifically  asked by RSA whether the damage was inevitable  and visible and if the brickwork 
was showing signs of wear and tear. Its apparent from RSAs file that a representative had spoken to 
the builder who had carried  out maintenance in 2017 on site, which consisted of repointing and 
defective bricks cut out and replaced. The builder  apparently told the representative that the brickwork 
was in a reasonable condition and no external  cracking between the gable end and chimney breast.  
There was nothing  to support any issues with the brickwork other than it was old.
RSA having considered everything maintained  a view that the damage had occurred gradually over 
time and this meant cover  was excluded  by the policy.
Mr and Mrs H remained in their home and made temporary arrangements to close off the open gable  
end of their home.  They  want RSA to repair their home and compensate them for the inconvenience 
and extra cost of heating their home. Theyd also like RSA to refund the cost incurred in having  the 
rubble (circa 40 tons) removed. 
A separate company, Ill call M, carried out an inspection of the damage,  visiting the property in July 
2018. At this point in time RSAs decision to refuse  the claim was based on the chimney lean profile.  
Ms structural  engineer noted that the debris  had been removed and temporary  covers protected the 
home from the weather.  Whats apparent from this report is that Mr and Mrs Hs home  while originally 
built early  17th century, had had other building  work likely in the late 19th and early  to mid-20th 
centuries. And its also said that the fireplace and chimney had also had alterations since the original 
build.
M didnt recommend that the chimney be rebuilt as it didnt serve any structural  purpose. The 
conclusion about collapse  wasnt  definitive but made a number of comments;
Ref: DRN31759216Some of the internal chimney  adaptations were of inferior quality.
The chimney  was not supporting the gable  wall.
Over time,  lime mortar that was used would perish  but any degradation behind  the render 
would not have resulted  in a sudden  collapse.
The inward  collapse  of the chimney likely suggests inferior build,  which may have caused loss 
of vertical or lateral support  for the brickwork  above.
The creeper  on the chimney did not have penetrating roots so wasnt a cause of the collapse.
Mr and Mrs H had instructed  a solicitor to deal with RSA before the matter came to us. In 
correspondence the solicitor advised RSA that shortly  after purchasing  the home  an inspection was 
carried out by an engineer. That engineer  wrote to the local county  council concluding  there was no 
real structural problem  with the chimney although  there was considerable deterioration towards the 
base. He recommended repair works  and the solicitor said Mr and Mrs H promptly carried out those  
repairs. In addition  to this, further evidence of maintenance of the roof and chimney from 2017 was 
provided to RSA. RSAs  engineers have been on site and spoken to the builder  who carried  out the 
recent work.  They havent challenged  the fact that Mr and Mrs H have carried out substantial  repairs 
and maintenance.
RSA referred the report from M to an expert, who had previously accepted the damage was a result of 
the chimneys leaning profile. This time the expert changed  his opinion stating, the only potential 
trigger for the collapse  of the brickwork  flue alterations suggested by [M] (and the only one I can think 
of) is perishing of the lime mortar  of the alterations, due in part to the effects  of soot on the mortar.  
This is a long-term process that has led to gradual deterioration in the strength of the construction 
which ultimately has led to the failure. In summary, whilst the workmanship to the flue alterations was 
poor it was only the long-term perishing  of the mortar joints over hundreds of years that exposed  the 
issue leading to the failure.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with RSA and referred their complaint to us. One of our investigators  
opinion was that RSA hadnt shown  an exclusion  applied to the claim and recommended RSA settle 
Mr and Mrs Hs claim. She thought RSA should refund the cost incurred  in removing the rubble.
In coming to her opinion, the investigator explained  that the policy was an all-risks  policy. She 
explained how RSAs opinion of the cause changed and she wasnt persuaded that Ms report  stated 
the cause of the collapse  was perishing lime mortar. She considered the works and maintenance that 
Mr and Mrs H had carried  out and was of the view that theyd taken  reasonable care in maintaining 
the chimney. And she wasnt of the view that there were structural defects as a result of perishing lime 
mortar. Overall, she didnt think they could have done anything different and so it was unfair for RSA 
to reject the claim given it was a sudden collapse  that was unforeseen and unexpected.
The investigator also considered RSAs position that alterations to the chimney were poor and so 
would fall under the exclusion for poor workmanship.  She explained that the experts had assessed 
the alterations as having taken place over hundreds  of years. But RSA hadnt shown that the 
alterations werent compliant with relevant standards at the time of completion. 
RSA disagreed with the investigator  and sent in a detailed reply explaining  why. RSA repeated parts 
of the expert reports which it says support both poor workmanship and gradual  deterioration. Its 
worthy of note that RSA has also cited several  other exclusions;
inherent defect;  alteration; renovation, repair, defective design; defective 
workmanship or the use of defective  materials; and
wear, tear and gradual  deterioration.
RSA states the cause  of collapse was sub-standard adaptations  and perishing mortar. And to support 
its view RSA has referred to Leeds Beckett University v Travelers Insurance  Company Limited [2017]3 
as relevant case law for all-risks insurance policies. This case concerned what  can be described as 
3 [2017] EWHC 558 (TCC)
Ref: DRN31759217perished concrete blockwork intended  to give structural support to a building. The policy involved in 
the case  was taken out in August 2011 and the building showed visible damage in December 2011.  
RSA says the court  addressed questions of inevitability of the damage and gradual deterioration 
where it said it was inevitable the blockwork  would fail due to flowing water weakening the structural  
strength; it was inevitable from the outset and the only unknown was precisely when the failure would  
occur.
On gradual deterioration RSA refer to part of the judgment  where the court interpreted this as; 
deterioration  the process of becoming  progressively worse; and gradual  intended  to convey 
something which happened over a period of time. And if deterioration  is itself progressive,  then 
gradual deterioration must  mean a process that may go even more slowly.
RSA says the similarities in Mr and Mrs Hs case and Leeds Beckett  are significant;
Both policies cover  damage.
In both cases the damage was inevitable  at the time the policy was taken out.
In both cases there was gradual deterioration  arising  from interaction with the environment 
(soot), leading to sudden and catastrophic failure.
RSA cited  further case law Promet  Engineering v Sturge [1997] on the issue of latent  defects (in the 
case a sea vessels welds),  Correcting latent defects is, as a matter of principle, an expense to be 
borne by the ship owners and not by underwriters. And RSA also refers  to one of our predecessor 
scheme publications  about  accidental  damage that Accident need not be precipitous; it can be slow,  
so long as the actual damage done cannot reasonably be put down to wear and tear and the like, or 
to any excluded clause.
And on the back of this reply the investigator was persuaded that RSA had acted  fairly in declining Mr 
and Mrs Hs claim. She explained that the main  exclusions in play were i) poor workmanship and ii) 
gradual damage.
i)RSA had submitted the standard to be measured by was the current  expert evidence,  but the 
investigator said this wouldnt be fair or reasonable in her opinion. This was on the basis that 
the alterations had taken  place  over several  hundred years and there was insufficient 
evidence to show  that the standards applicable at the time had been breached.
ii)Company M had provided  further information to clarify its initial report. In particular, the 
investigator cited the following;
I consider that the cause of collapse was probably  a culmination of defects  including the 
various alterations to the chimney and to the flues,  poor workmanship as well as the perishing 
mortar.
The investigator said that both experts (Q and M) agreed that the most likely  cause of the collapse 
was perishing  mortar. And as this would  have  happened  over time,  the investigator was persuaded 
that the damage had occurred gradually and there was no evidence  of another cause.  The 
investigator was satisfied the exclusion for damage occurring gradually  applied to Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim. In considering what was fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances, she said insurance  was 
for fortuitous events rather than something inevitable.  And Mr and Mrs Hs policy  didnt give cover for 
property maintenance. Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to review  the case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  DISP  3.6.4R  says I need to take into account 
relevant:
Ref: DRN31759218law and regulations;
regulators  rules guidance and standards;
codes  of practice; and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time.
The issue to be determined by me in this complaint is whether, in all the circumstances, its fair and 
reasonable for RSA to have rejected Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
The extent of cover provided under  Mr and Mrs Hs policy  includes all risks of physical loss or damage 
to buildings unless any exclusion applies. And risk is defined in the policy as the possibility  of an 
unforeseen and unintended occurrence happening.  There is no dispute about damage; rather the 
point in issue  is that of an applicable exclusion. And in this case  RSA originally rejected  the claim 
because of the exclusion  for wear,  tear and gradual  deterioration (albeit  that RSA more latterly 
referred to other  exclusions  after our investigation began). There are other relevant policy  issues in 
play such as a general condition that the policyholder must  take all reasonable steps to minimise the 
risk of accident, injury, loss or damage. 
There is a policy schedule which shows the policy  period  renewed from 14 March  2018 to 13 March  
2019. And there is a statement  of facts which contains information about the policyholders  (Mr and 
Mrs H) and the property to be insured. Within this information is included the age of the house and 
that it is in a good state of repair. 
RSAs position is that the chimney collapse  was due to wear, tear and gradual deterioration. And it 
primarily bases this on the report by M, of which RSAs expert  said;
the only potential trigger for the collapse of the brickwork flue alterations suggested by [M] (and the 
only one I can think of) is perishing  of the lime mortar of the alterations, due in part to the effects  of 
soot on the mortar. This is a long-term process that has led to gradual deterioration in the strength of 
the construction which ultimately has led to the failure. In summary,  whilst the workmanship to the flue 
alterations was poor it was only the long-term perishing  of the mortar joints over hundreds  of years 
that exposed the issue leading to the failure.
I think  its worth pointing out that there has been professional disagreement about the cause of the 
collapse. RSA originally  rejected the claim based  on chimney lean and this was supported by RSAs 
expert. But that reason  was later accepted as incorrect  by RSAs  expert.  And the cause has been 
distilled down  by RSAs expert to perishing lime mortar,  a long-term process. And its this RSA says 
falls under gradual deterioration.
A useful starting  point when considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case is the age of the property that RSA knew it was insuring. RSA doesnt want  to provide a 
maintenance contract and indeed thats not the purpose  of insurance. In keeping with the policy 
definition of risk, the policy is there  to cover the possibility of an unforeseen and unintended 
occurrence happening. 
There is unchallenged evidence that Mr and Mrs H had carried out work to the chimney and other 
parts of the house particularly at the point of purchase and more recently  the year before the chimney 
collapsed. RSAs experts  had the opportunity  to speak with the builder  who carried  out the work in 
2017, which included re-pointing the chimney  and replacing some bricks. And there was no 
suggestion that this work wasnt carried out as stated.  So, Im satisfied that on balance the information 
provided by RSA and Mr and Mrs H shows the property was in a good state of repair  and that Mr and 
Mrs H had taken all reasonable steps to minimise the risk of damage in maintaining  their property. 
Indeed, RSA hasnt argued otherwise.
I dont think its necessary for me to talk about  the nature of insurance per se  its sufficient to say 
that buildings insurance is not a contract of property maintenance and is there for fortuitous events; 
those happening by chance as opposed to intention or inevitability.
Ref: DRN31759219Like every  insurance policy Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance contains terms, conditions and 
exclusions that limit and restrict the circumstances in which cover applies. Even though it is an all-
risks policy it doesnt mean that every event of loss or damage  is covered. 
Under what is covered the policy states  all risks of physical loss or damage to buildingsunless any 
exclusion applies. And risk is defined  in the policy  as The possibility of an unforeseen and 
unintended occurrence happening.
Before dealing  with the exclusions RSA relies on its relevant, in deciding whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances,  to point out what conditions were  placed  on Mr and Mrs H to ensure they 
retained cover. And two important conditions are;
You must  maintain the buildings  in a good state of repair.
You must  take all reasonable steps to minimise the risk of accident,  injury,  loss or damage.
RSAs reasons for declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim have developed from its final response letter  in 
December 2018. In that letter RSA cited wear, tear and gradual deterioration,  but more recently the 
reasons have developed to also include;
inherent defect;  alteration; renovation, repair, defective design; defective workmanship  or the 
use of defective materials.
Ive thought carefully about  the Leeds Beckett  case referred  to by RSA. Its worth pointing out that this 
case concerned a commercial building which was insured  under a commercial  insurance contract. 
The building  involved had to be demolished around 16 years after it had been built.  The problem  
concerned damaged foundations (below  ground level) caused by the continuing presence of 
groundwater on the site. 
The main issues with the court case were;
1.whether the damage was accidental  damage in line with the meaning of the policy, and, 
2.if so, whether it was within the exclusions for gradual  deterioration, faulty or defective design, 
or contamination.
On the first question the court found the damage was inevitable because the building had been built 
across the line of an old watercourse with several springs around and beneath the building. The 
design of the groundwater drainage  was faulty or defective  in that it didnt consider problems inherent 
in having the foundation blockwork exposed to continual  running water.  So, the inevitability  of the 
damage arose because of the building as designed and the environment it was in, namely the 
presence of continuing groundwater.
On the second part the court  said the exclusion for gradual deterioration applied as it encompassed 
the effect of the environment (that is the ground and the flowing water) on the building. The primary 
cause of damage was the faulty/deficient design and, in particular, failures concerning the drainage. 
That failure  meant known problems with groundwater on site were not addressed and the design was 
not fit for purpose.
RSA says that Mr and Mrs Hs case shares significant similarities  with Leeds Beckett but I dont 
agree. In Leeds Beckett the insurance policy defined;
damage as meaning accidental loss or destruction of or damage. Mr and Mrs Hs policy 
neither defines damage nor accidental damage.
defined peril whereas  Mr and Mrs Hs policy clearly and definitively covers all-risks.
The issue about environment in Leeds Beckett was primarily about the site the building was built upon 
(ever-present flowing groundwater) together with the design of the site below ground, such  as the 
drainage. In Mr and Mrs Hs case there is no such analogous environment question.  Mr and Mrs Hs 
home was, like every other home, built in the open and subject to the vagaries of the weather and 
atmospheric conditions. So, on these points  alone,  Im not persuaded that the outcome in Leeds 
Ref: DRN317592110Beckett fairly  transfers over as a fair and reasonable outcome in Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. There are 
in my view several distinguishing  features.
RSA has sought to draw out the applicability of accidental damage in this case  and cites parts of the 
Leeds Beckett judgment. At paragraph 199 the court discusses what accidental damage means. 
Mindful of course that Mr and Mrs Hs policy  covers all-risks (which arent defined) and doesnt define 
accidental damage. The court said;
it has been  suggested  that, to be accidental, damage cannot  be caused by an inherent vice of the 
subject matter, or by ordinary  wear and tear. But that is not correct: in some situations,  damage can 
occur due to an inherent vice and yet still be a fortuitous occurrence.  In my view, accidental  simply 
means an event that occurs  by chance, which is non-deliberate (wilful or deliberate damage  is always 
excluded: see Patrick  v Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society  Ltd [2006]  EWCA Civ 421). I take 
comfort from the fact that this starting point is also the one taken by Paul Reed QC, the author of 
Construction All Risks Insurance, Thompson Reuters, Second Edition (October 2016), at paragraph 
10-002.
Where I agree with RSA is that Mr and Mrs Hs policy  doesnt cover an inevitability. Here, if it was 
inevitable that the chimney would collapse, it matters not when it collapses  the mere inevitability 
would arguably be enough to defeat the claim. But I dont  think this can be fairly considered without 
further reference to the policy and the nature of the home itself. And I disagree with RSA principally 
on the basis that the policy in Leeds Beckett  contained defined perils, one of which was accidental 
damage. Mr and Mrs Hs policy  covered  all-risks rather than defined perils.  So, damage is covered 
unless a relevant exclusion applies and there is no requirement for Mr and Mrs H to show the damage 
was accidental. RSA would have to show  the damage was inevitable. But even  if there was an issue 
about whether the damage was accidental it seems to me that the courts words  italicised above,  
suggest a relatively broad  interpretation, accidental simply meaning an event that occurs by chance, 
which is what  Mr and Mrs H say happened.  
The crux of RSAs reasoning  concerns  perishing lime mortar and its worth pointing out again what 
RSAs engineer, who seemingly gave the final instruction to RSA on causation, said;
The only potential  trigger  for the collapse  of the brickwork flue alterations suggested by [company M] 
(and the only one I can think of) is perishing of the lime mortar of the alterations, due in part to the 
effects of soot on the mortar. This is a long-term process that has led to gradual deterioration in the 
strength of the construction which ultimately has led to the failure. In summary, whilst the 
workmanship to the flue alterations was poor it was only the long-term perishing of the mortar joints 
over hundreds of years  that exposed the issue leading  to the failure.
RSA knew  the context  of the home  it was insuring in so far as it had been built several hundred years 
hence, and as an experienced  buildings  insurer it must be aware of the risks inherent with properties  
of such  vintage. And on this aspect,  I reflect on the policy  conditions mentioned earlier  that Mr and 
Mrs H must;
maintain the buildings in a good state of repair.
take all reasonable steps to minimise the risk of accident, injury, loss or damage.
I said earlier  that Mr and Mrs H had carried out work to the chimney and other parts of the house, 
particularly at the point of purchase and more recently the year before the chimney  collapsed. And 
RSAs experts had the opportunity to speak with the builder who carried out the work in 2017,  which 
included re-pointing the chimney  and replacing  some bricks. There is no suggestion that this work 
wasnt carried out as stated. So, I remain satisfied that the information  provided by RSA and Mr and 
Mrs H shows  the property was in a good state  of repair and that Mr and Mrs H had taken all 
reasonable steps  to minimise the risk of damage by maintaining their property. 
Had Mr and Mrs H not maintained and repaired  their home, particularly the chimney stack,  then I 
would have sympathy with RSAs point on the collapse  being inevitable. The maintenance  and repairs 
Ref: DRN317592111are the activities  that mitigate against the risks of deterioration and Im satisfied thats what  Mr and 
Mrs H have done. If they hadnt done so it would be arguable that the conditions hadnt been 
complied with. But that isnt the case here. 
Looking at the authorities referred to in the Leeds Beckett  case  on gradual deterioration, a term not 
defined in Mr and Mrs Hs policy, it has been described as "a deterioration which is progressive by 
degrees, as opposed to sudden and catastrophic".
Whats interesting about Mr and Mrs Hs case is that the chimney itself was subject to a sudden and 
catastrophic collapse. There are no evident  degrees of progressive failure  of the chimney.  The lean, 
which may have occurred  progressively, has been  ruled out as the cause of the collapse.  Ive not 
found the reports in this case  to be definitive on causation, or the mechanism  of failure (to use the 
language in Leeds Beckett). There have  been  various observations made  and indeed  a complete  
withdrawal of some reasons. And Im mindful  of a comment from company  M that that over time, lime 
mortar that was used would perish but any degradation behind the render would not have resulted in 
a sudden collapse.
From all the information  provided Im not satisfied that the main  cause or the mechanism of failure has 
been established on the balance of probabilities. Some observations have been made  about  what  
might have happened  (lime mortar would perish over time is different from a physical observation of 
the mortar that has actually perished). Poor workmanship hasnt been identified as the cause  of the 
collapse and indeed works date back over centuries  and theres no persuasive evidence  that the 
techniques used breach  any regulator or industry standards at the relevant times.  And the 
workmanship issues potentially cover most of the other reasons RSA has more  recently  cited  to reject 
the claim. Theres insufficient evidence that shows the design  of the chimney stack was defective  
rather theres a suggestion that some  alterations were of a poor standard. So, Im satisfied that the 
relevant exclusions are wear, tear and gradual  deterioration as discussed in this decision.
This case has some challenging  issues and, in my view, the biggest is what, on the balance of 
probabilities, caused the chimney to suddenly collapse? What isnt in dispute is that Mr and Mrs H 
addressed issues with the chimney  when  they bought their home  (30 years ago), and essential 
maintenance was carried out by a builder who has had discussions with RSAs representative about 
that work. 
I remind myself that my role is to determine this complaint by reference  to what I consider  to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. RSA knew it was insuring a very old property on 
an all-risks  basis.  The policy places onerous conditions on Mr and Mrs H to keep the property in a 
good state  of repair and take all reasonable steps to minimise the risk of damage. And Ive explained 
why I am satisfied they have done so. In the particular  circumstances of this case, I find it unfair  and 
unreasonable that the outcome should be for RSA to reject Mr and Mrs Hs claim. The expert reports 
are equivocal  and not definitive or consistent about the actual cause, apart from RSAs  expert 
adopting some of what company M said.
Mr and Mrs H have an insurance  policy  that covers them for all risks of damage unless an exclusion 
applies. And where RSA seeks  to invoke  an exclusion  it bears the burden of proving the exclusion 
applies. The circumstances  of the claim  are that a maintained property, having  had significant and 
recent work carried out on the chimney, stood for a long period of time and then suddenly and 
unexpectedly the chimney collapsed. Why the chimney  collapsed has not been established in my 
view to the required standard. And in these circumstances, I reflect on industry rules that say an 
insurer must not unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mr and Mrs H are not in breach of any conditions and have complied  with what  they should do. 
Coupled with the equivocal observations of the expert evidence I am satisfied that what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that RSA deals with the claim. And by 
that it should  reinstate the chimney  stack or provide a cash settlement. The cash  settlement  should  
reflect market rates if RSA is unwilling to instruct its own contractor to complete  the work, or if Mr and 
Ref: DRN317592112Mrs H do not want to use RSAs  contractor  then RSA need pay no more than it would  to its contractor. 
And RSA must also pay the cost incurred  in Mr and Mrs H removing  the rubble.
I have taken into account RSAs comments about how we look at complaints involving gradual 
damage. And indeed, Ive considered comments about a predecessor (IOB) publication  from 1987 
that RSA has mentioned. My determination in this case is based on its particular circumstances as 
contained in the information  provided by RSA and Mr and Mrs H. The IOB reference is to accidental 
damage and inevitability and Ive addressed both these points in this decision. 
RSAs main concern about gradual  damage relates to foreseeability and that insurers would  
potentially be liable to maintain homes. Ive made clear in this decision that I agree the all-risks  policy 
is not a maintenance contract.  Ive set out the onerous conditions Mr and Mrs H needed  to comply 
with to ensure their home was covered by the policy. Its acknowledged that all-risks policies are 
generally more expensive policies and indeed  give much greater and wider cover. Such a policy 
doesnt restrict cover  to defined perils  or specific events. Mr and Mrs Hs policy  does though cover all 
possibilities of an unforeseen and unintended  occurrence happening, subject to specific exclusions. 
Ive explained why Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for RSA to cover the 
chimney collapse.
There is the issue of what, if any, distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs H have experienced 
because of RSA not dealing with the claim.  They have had to arrange temporary  cover over the gaps 
in the side of the house,  some rooms cant be used and they say theyve incurred  additional heating 
costs. 
The property is a substantial  one and Im not persuaded that the impact has been such  that living in 
the house  has been fraught with difficulties. What, if any, increased heating  costs might be are difficult  
to assess. Air temperature and frequency of occupation  impact on how much heating  energy  is used 
and no two periods are the same. I accept that the appearance of the property in its unrepaired state, 
and for such  a period of time, has been  distressing and Mr and Mrs H have  had to arrange  temporary  
repairs and rubble  removal.  Theres no evidence  that Mr and Mrs H have been deprived of essential 
facilities in their home, but they have lost the use of some rooms because  of the gaps that have 
remained. And, bearing all that in mind, I think a fair reflection  is £1,000 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and require  RSA to do the following;
refund the cost Mr and Mrs H incurred in removing the rubble/debris
oadd simple interest of 8% per year from the date Mr and Mrs H paid this to the date 
payment is sent,  subject  to proof  of payment.
Deal with the insurance claim, which will be subject to policy limits and applicable excesses,  
by one of the following;
oInstruct its own contractors  to carry out the repairs
oIf Mr and Mrs H dont want to use RSAs  contractors, then RSA must pay a cash 
settlement based on the detailed costing of its contractor  (in simple  terms RSA will 
pay no more than it would to its own contractor)
oIf RSA doesnt want to instruct contractors, then it must pay a settlement based on 
the market rate of repair so that Mr and Mrs H can instruct their own contractors. To 
establish the market  rate RSA should  obtain and pay for two quotations from 
surveyors or building contractors capable of costing or carrying  out the work  (in 
simple terms this means that RSA doesnt benefit from the discount it might obtain by 
using its own contractor).
Pay Mr and Mrs H £1,000 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3175921