K820x#14complaint
Ms U seeks  to recover nearly £120,000 from Lloyds Bank PLC,  which was stolen from her 
bank account  in 2017 as a result of an investment  scam.
background
In June 2017, Ms U sold her house.  She wanted  to invest some  of the proceeds of the sale 
into an investment that attracted a reasonable amount of interest.  Her first choice was to 
place the money  into a bank or building  society account. But upon looking at her options, 
she was put off from doing so by the interest  rates available at the time.  
So, over the following few months,  she decided to put money  into four different investments. 
Amongst other payments,  Ms U made the following payments to a company named Strategy 
Markets:
Date Type of transaction Transaction amount Account balance 
after the payment
18/08/2017 Faster Payment £20,000 £135,740.29
21/08/2017 Faster Payment £20,000 £115,660.01
03/10/2017 International Payment £80,000 £4,899.46
However, in September 2018, Ms U contacted Lloyds about these payments because  she 
thought that shed been the victim of a scam. She submitted that:
Before investing  into the four different investment areas, she had no previous 
investment experience,  so she was cautious with her research. 
After which, she opted to pay Strategy Markets the amounts  in the table above, in 
conjunction with investing approximately £83,000 into other investment ventures.   
Shed  found  Strategy  Markets online and thought its website appeared professional 
and genuine. The company website  displayed an address registered in London and 
she selected a link to email the company  about the possibility of investing. 
Her rationale for choosing Strategy Markets included her interest in investing in 
renewable energy.  The returns  appeared  attractive,  as she was told that she would 
receive up to 10% of total profit on the investment  and this was available  every  six 
months.
Upon reviewing Strategy Markets reply, she decided to go ahead  with what she 
thought was a viable investment opportunity. She made two £20,000  payments  using  
her online  banking  facility with Lloyds. She selected this amount, because £20,000 
was the maximum transfer amount allowed by Lloyds in one day. 
She had two main  contacts at Strategy Markets, who were  in regular contact with 
her. Often, emails and calls were exchanged with these  individuals  two to three  times 
per week.  Strategy  Markets also provided what she thought  at the time was an 
investment platform, which looked convincing in the sense that it displayed  the 
performance of her so-called investments. Despite trying  to find the information, 
shes since been unable  to locate any of the material that Strategy Markets provided 
her with. 
Following the first two payments, there were no real sales  tactics  or pressure from 
Strategy Markets to send further payments.  An individual from the company did 
enquire whether  she would be interested in investing in crypto-currency. But when 
she declined, there was no insistence to continue to send more money. 
Ref: DRN39075092The £80,000 payment came  as a result of one of her main contacts presenting an 
opportunity to further invest with the company. This led to a seemingly more senior 
figure at Strategy Markets  proposing the chance to consolidate her investment into 
renewable energy.  At the time,  she didnt  think that this being an international 
payment was unusual,  because she knew already that the company operated 
internationally. Also, the individual she was in touch with seemed professional and 
well-informed. 
As a result, she decided to send the payment and afterwards received what she 
thought was corresponding information about  the investment. Again, shes since  
been unable  to find these documents. 
In December 2017, she received a £2,000 dividend  payment that reflected the 
performance of her so-called investment. In light of this, all seemed well in her 
opinion. Also, it appeared that up to £10,000  worth of profit was available to draw  
down  but she thought it best to leave the capital where  it would keep accruing what 
she thought was growth on her initial investment.  
However, in February 2018, she grew concerned that she couldnt reach anyone at 
Strategy Markets. Her contact attempts  were going unanswered and she became 
increasingly worried that something  had gone wrong. 
She did some research online and found  that Strategy Markets  had changed its 
name to CPT Technologies and was now operating  in Switzerland. She continued to 
not be able to speak to anyone  at the company, nor did she have the option  to 
withdraw her money. 
So, on 18 September 2018,  she contacted Lloyds to raise that she thought shed 
been the victim of a scam.  
In response, Lloyds  said:
It sent an indemnity  request for the two £20,000  payments to the recipient bank the 
same day that Ms U raised the scam. That bank responded on 24 September 2018, 
stating that none  of Ms Us money remained in the account the payments were sent 
to.
It also sent an indemnity request to the recipient bank for the £80,000 international 
payment that same  day too. This was a German bank, which  confirmed that it tried to 
recover the payment   but the account  the money was received into was closed at 
some point  in November 2017, with no funds remaining.
Due to the length  of time thats since elapsed, Lloyds is unable to provide the login  
records for Ms Us online banking facility. Even so, it knows that she completed all 
three payments  using  her own online banking account. 
When making the payments, Ms U wouldve received a warning prior to making  the 
transfers. This is in place to check that she was comfortable with making the 
transaction. 
In terms of flagging  the payments before allowing the funds to be sent,  there are a 
number of different  factors that are taken into account by Lloyds, and these 
payments did not meet such a criterion to be referred. 
The regulators, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), first recorded information  
about Strategy  Markets being unauthorised in April 2018   after all of the payments 
had already been sent. 
When setting up a new payment online, the customer  inputs the sort code of the 
recipient bank account, then is presented with confirmation of what bank that code is 
for.
Ref: DRN39075093At the time the payments took place, the recipient  account  name  could not be 
checked when  sending payments electronically. Concurrently, confirmation of payee 
was also not in place. 
On account of this and the other circumstances of the payments, Lloyds does not 
believe it ought to have intervened to prevent the payments  going  ahead.  It maintains 
that the security  of its customers  accounts is vitally important; and its continually 
working to make  processes accessible  while limiting unauthorised access. Be that 
as it may, this does  not result in all payments/ transactions being referred for 
checking.  
Overall, its not in dispute  that Ms U willingly transferred money  from her own account 
to a third-party. Therefore, Lloyds is under no obligation to refund any of the 
payments because they were authorised. On that basis,  the bank has not agreed to 
reimburse Ms U as no error has occurred on its part.     
Unhappy with this, Ms U raised  a complaint with Lloyds. The bank reiterated that it was not 
at fault and did not offer a refund.  So, Ms U brought the complaint to our service. When  
doing so, she submitted  that Lloyds should have done more  to protect her money. 
Especially, because she found  out that some/all  of her money had gone to a Turkish Kebab  
shop  so it ought to have  been  reasonably clear to Lloyds  that this was not the intended  
recipient of her payment(s). Therefore, had the bank duly alerted her to this, she wouldnt 
have sent the money and would not now be at such a huge loss financially.   
Having considered everything, our investigator  thought that Lloyds could not reasonably be 
expected to have flagged  or intervened with either of the two £20,000  payments. 
Conversely, she did find that it ought  to have seen the £80,000 payment as out of character. 
However, she wasnt satisfied that even if Lloyds had spoken to Ms U, this would have been 
enough to prevent her from making  the £80,000 payment. In light of this, she didnt 
recommend that Lloyds  offer a refund. Lloyds accepted this opinion. 
Ms U does not agree. She accepts that the first two payments did look relatively normal 
and therefore  OK. But not the £80,000, as she couldve been alerted to the possibility of 
further fraud had the bank stepped in. On that basis, she believes that Lloyds should refund 
at least £80,000.  
Because Ms U does  not agree, the complaint  has been escalated to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Payment  Services Regulations  2009 (PSRs), and in accordance with banking  
terms and conditions, banks should  execute  an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. The starting position is that liability for an authorised  payment rests  with the 
payer, even if they were  duped into giving that authorisation or it was obtained by third-party 
fraud.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations  and good industry practice,  a bank has a
duty to protect  its customers  against  the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably
possible. 
Ref: DRN39075094Amongst other things, this might  involve a bank looking to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly  unusual or out of character transactions   that could involve fraud  
or be the result of a scam. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably  to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Accordingly, I first need to determine whether Lloyds breached that duty when executing   
Ms Us payment request for the three transactions under consideration. 
Here its not in dispute that Ms U authorised  all three of these payments. The first two were 
sent by Ms U via online banking  to bank accounts  in the UK. The final payment was an 
international one, again  through  Ms U instructing Lloyds to send the funds to an account 
through the online banking facility she has in place with the bank. Its not in question  that 
these online  payments were authenticated by Ms U using her security  credentials. 
Therefore, I conclude that all three payments were authorised, for which Ms U is liable   
unless there  is sufficient evidence that Lloyds shouldve reasonably done more to protect  
her. 
Turning first to the two £20,000 payment transactions,  Ive considered  Ms Us account  
balance and activity  at the material time, along with the circumstances of both the payments. 
Its clear that at the time Ms U was in the midst  of making a number of large  transactions, 
aside from those payments that had been  made  to Strategy Markets. She had chosen to 
invest in a number  of investment opportunities, of which  transactions  included that of a 
£50,000 payment  towards one (legitimate) investment company on 20 July 2017. Its evident 
that she purchased  a car for around £25,000  shortly afterwards. And there was a £10,000 
payment made on 3 August  2017, which appears  to be for foreign currency as an 
international transaction.  
These, amongst  other debits of quite substantial amounts, were made across the span of 
time from her house sale in June 2017 until August 2017. Naturally,  Ms U would not have 
queried such legitimate  payments with the bank at that time or at all. Bearing this in mind, 
Im not satisfied that either of the £20,000  payments  that are in dispute  would  or should have 
appeared particularly unusual or uncharacteristic to Lloyds or triggered  any fraud alerts.  
Indeed, Ms U has conceded  that the first two scam payments were not out of character for 
her at that time.  
Likewise, because the payments were made online,  Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt miss an 
opportunity to identify  either one of the payments as suspicious, e.g. through  a conversation  
over the phone or engagement with staff while  in branch. Therefore, Im not convinced  that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably before these two payments were sent. 
I appreciate that Ms U feels strongly  that it constitutes a failure  on Lloyds part by not 
correlating the payee name  to the actual  recipient  account name, otherwise known as 
Confirmation of Payee (CoP). Its true that CoP has since  been introduced as a way to give 
customers greater assurance  that they are indeed sending payments to the intended 
recipient. While, at the same time, helping them to avoid making accidental or misdirected 
payments to the wrong account holder.
Ref: DRN39075095However, Im satisfied Lloyds wouldnt have  had access to that information from a third-party 
bank at the time Ms U made these disputed payments. More stringent codes have since  
come into practice after the payments were  made,  as CoP should now confirm  the recipient 
account holder  name when sending a payment.  
CoP requires banks  and building societies (including  Lloyds)  to have signed up and 
implemented the scheme  by June 2020.  Therefore, in this case, I dont judge it to be fair to 
hold Lloyds accountable to a standard that was beyond  the expected codes of good  practice  
at the time. 
Further, as these arent checks Lloyds couldve reasonably carried out on its own,  it wouldnt 
be fair to apply these  changes retrospectively.  Under the PSRs, Lloyds was not under any 
obligation to check  if the name on the account  matched  only to pay the funds to the correct  
unique identifiers (that being  the sort code and account number).
So, it follows  that I dont  consider that Lloyds did anything wrong by processing  Ms Us 
instructions for each  of the three  payments and consequently sending the money to the 
unique identifiers she entered. 
Moving on to the third payment  in dispute,  I must take into account that there  were  aspects 
of this transaction that were  noticeably different to that of the previous two £20,000 
payments. Firstly, a new payee had to be set up in order for the payment to be sent to the 
recipient. Lloyds is aware of the increase in sophisticated fraud in recent times and, overall, 
it will generally be more familiar with the deceptive techniques used  of which a new payee  
can be a noticeable  tactic that is frequently  employed by fraudsters. 
The amount  of £80,000 was the largest  single value transaction leaving the account for 
some months (if ever).  It was an international payment  whereas  the overwhelming majority 
of the other payments  leaving the account were  sent to bank accounts with providers within  
the UK. Moreover, in terms of payments overseas, Ive set out that Ms U had historically 
made an international payment in August 2017. That said, this was for a far less significant 
amount of £10,000,  in terms of it reducing the present balance at the time.  Conversely, this 
£80,000 payment  used  up around  90% of Ms Us available balance. This was not in keeping 
with her spending habits  on the contrary,  I cannot see that the account had previously 
been so suddenly drained.  
As described, I consider that Lloyds should  have fairly  and reasonably been monitoring this 
account and any payments  made  or received to counter various risks  including  preventing 
scams. Irrespective of the payment channel used, extra steps can be taken, or additional 
checks made, before processing a payment  or the payment can be declined  altogether.  All 
of which  could help protect customers from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
Overall, the circumstances of the international payment in dispute  here persuades me that 
this particular transaction ought to have  stood out to Lloyds as uncharacteristic,  in contrast to 
the other account  activity. Particularly, as it was an international payment being sent to a 
new payee, with no comparable legitimate payments  in the recent account history. 
Consequently, its my judgment that Lloyds should have contacted Ms U before letting the 
money go. I therefore  need to determine  what difference  (if any) such a conversation  
between Ms U and Lloyds wouldve made.  
Ref: DRN39075096I accept that its possible  that Lloyds providing  information about the risk of fraud and scams, 
coupled with potentially  asking probing  questions, might have unravelled the trick being  
perpetrated against Ms U and/or caused the bank staff to realise  that something was amiss 
before it was too late. However,  I have to make  my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities, not mere  possibilities  so what I consider most likely to have happened,  
considering the evidence  and wider circumstances of the case. In other words, Ive thought 
carefully about whether its more likely than not that Lloyds intervening  and asking Ms U 
questions about  the payment wouldve unlocked the scam before the £80,000  was sent and 
effectively lost. 
Ms U is unable  to present  the email  interactions she had with the fraudster(s)  or the 
supporting documents that she received. Without this information,  determining whether 
Lloyds involvement  couldve ultimately prevented the payment is more  difficult.  
Based on what I do know, Ms U was convinced  she was investing in a genuine  and 
potentially prosperous venture. By her own account, she had cautiously researched 
legitimate investment opportunities, and, after a degree of scrutiny, she thought  Strategy 
Markets was in keeping with this aim. So, its reasonable to say that this wouldve been 
reflected in an answer to any relevant questions along the lines of was it her who identified  
and reached out to the company  not that she was suddenly approached and offered an 
unforeseen opportunity to make money. 
The corresponding material from Strategy Markets struck  her as professional and legitimate; 
as was the communication shared with the supposed members of staff. And to a certain 
extent, she relied on the platform showing  that her money was in fact where  she intended it 
to be  that is, invested in renewable energy.  
We also know that, at the point that the international payment was being initiated, Ms U had 
been coerced  over a space of more  than a month.  One of the persuading factors for Ms U 
was that there were  little, if any, sales  tactics  or perpetual attempts to convince her to 
transfer more over this span of time. This was a very sophisticated scam by the look or it. 
Ms U was not pressured into acting quickly and it would appear that this reinforced  its 
legitimacy in her mind. As I see it, its therefore  probable that Ms U would have relayed this 
confidence in the purpose of the payment  to Lloyds, had it asked her what  the payment was 
for. 
An intervening conversation may well have gone  into the detail  of what  Ms U had been 
promised by Strategy  Markets. Even so, it strikes me that this would probably not have 
unlocked the scam.  I say this because, we know that Ms U found the regular emails and 
calls that she received above board  and professional. And, given environmental concerns at 
the time and now, investing in renewable energy is feasible and potentially lucrative through  
legitimate schemes.  
For the purposes of determining the legitimacy of the £80,000 payment, Ms U has told us 
that she took comfort  from seeing her previous  two payments in what  she believed to be 
real time  which would  not necessarily be indicative of money lost or make it evident  to her 
or Lloyds  that the recipient was in fact acting mendaciously. 
Ref: DRN39075097I also cannot ignore  that Ms U has made it clear that she didnt have concerns about the last 
payment being  an international one. So, again,  I cannot presume that further probing about  
whether this was unusual  would unearth Strategy Markets true motive  for requesting this 
money to be sent overseas. I therefore  cannot safely conclude  that it wouldve stopped  the 
payment in its tracks, had this been tested by Lloyds or questioned  further.  
Unfortunately, there are a great deal of diverse  and sophisticated scams  for both banks  and 
consumers to try and stay safe from. The sheer  volume of potential  risks somewhat limits  the 
expectations on the ability for Lloyds to identify and keep track of every  scam: it is not 
expected to act as a detective  or regulator. But one way to counter such fraudulent  activity  
and protect consumers is to take note of the regulators information and warnings. 
Crucially, the Financial Conduct Authoritys Register at the time all the payments were made 
did not reflect the later unauthorised status  it holds for Strategy Markets now  rather, this 
information only came  to light in 2018.  As a consequence, Lloyds could not reasonably have 
found out the true nature of the company even if it were expected  to check  at the time (which 
I think would  be a stretch in the absence of answers  from a customer  which seemed, on the 
face of things, to be inherently implausible  or suspicious). With all of this in mind, I am not 
persuaded that a conversation would have highlighted to Lloyds or Ms U at the time that she 
was being duped into sending money  as part of a scam. 
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if Lloyds had asked probing  questions 
are reinforced by the fact that Ms U, by her own admission, was convinced  up until early 
2018 that this was a genuine investment venture. Although I have not seen the material  
itself, I accept her statement that the marketing literature and after-sales correspondence 
Strategy Markets provided compelled  her to believe that all was well  and this remained  the 
case until some three to four months  after the final of the three  payments was made.  
Indeed, its common  ground that Ms U only began to entertain doubts because Strategy 
Markets ceased  communication with her; together with her proactively becoming aware 
through online research that it had changed its name  and the country of its registered 
address. Naturally,  Lloyds  wouldve been unaware of such factors, given the sequence of 
events and regulatory information  available to it at the time of the transactions. 
Finally, Ive gone on to look at the steps Lloyds took once it was aware that the payments 
were the result of fraud. Im satisfied  Lloyds took action without undue delay, notifying the 
receiving banks the same day  which is what Id expect it to do. Unfortunately, by the time 
Lloyds had contacted these banks,  the money  had already been removed from the receiving 
accounts. There was a lengthy gap between when the payments were made and when they 
were first reported to Lloyds. And its not uncommon  for funds  to have been withdrawn or 
spent in such a span of time, because perpetrators generally move swiftly to extract  money. 
Its very unfortunate  Ms U has lost out and I understand  the whole experience was and is 
hugely upsetting for her. I can also appreciate  why she feels  strongly  that Lloyds should offer 
a refund. But under these circumstances, whilst Lloyds probably could and should have 
intervened when the £80,000 payment was sent, the evidence indicates  that this would 
probably have  made no difference  and therefore  did not cause  Ms Us loss. I dont think it 
could reasonably have intervened with stopping or recovering the first two payments, as they 
were commensurate with recent,  legitimate, unqueried spending  patterns.  
Ref: DRN39075098my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3907509