K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Yorkshire  Building Society  wrongly applied  interest to her offset 
mortgage. She had difficulty  finding  out what had happened.  
background
Miss W took out an offset mortgage in 2012. She opened  a savings account at the same 
time. Her intention was that the mortgage would be offset in full by the savings account so 
that no interest would  be incurred.  In 2018 Miss W received  a letter  from YBS asking her to 
make monthly payments. Miss W says when she called YBS it didnt explain how this had 
happened. And it didnt respond  to all of her complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said YBS had 
corrected its errors and offered £175  compensation for the inconvenience  it had caused  
Miss W. The adjudicator said YBS didnt make an error when  it applied  a letting fee in late 
2017 as Miss W had said she was letting the property. 
Miss W didnt agree.  She said she still wasnt clear about what  had happened and didnt 
agree that YBS had corrected its errors.  She said it was difficult  to contact YBS,  calls were  
lengthy and frustrating and she felt customer services tried to bribe her by offering financial 
compensation. Miss W wasnt happy that YBS hadnt sent her recordings of her phone calls. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
YBS contacted Miss W in early 2018  asking her to make monthly payments to her mortgage 
account. Miss W had arranged for her mortgage to be fully offset by her savings account.  So 
she asked YBS why this had changed.  YBS said her mortgage balance was increased by 
interest applied  in 2012 and fees (for copy statements and a lettings fee) applied in late 
2017. 
Following the call, YBS transferred £213 from Miss Ws savings account to her mortgage 
account. This meant the mortgage was fully offset  and no monthly payments were required. 
Miss W said this wasnt right. She said there  shouldnt have been any interest applied  in 
2012. And she says the fees should  have been  paid from the savings account.  
YBS accepts  it made an error. It had told Miss W in 2012 that it had adjusted her offset  
mortgage and offset savings  account so that no interest was applied to her mortgage. In fact, 
some interest had been applied. It provided evidence that it has now corrected this. It 
credited the interest (about £271) to the mortgage account as at 1 January 2018.  
YBS also refunded the £11 fee for the copy statements. It credited  £11 to Miss Ws 
mortgage account as at 1 January 2018. 
YBS hasnt refunded the lettings fee. I think the letting  fee was properly applied. YBS told 
Miss W the fee was payable and that it could  be paid in different ways. It said if the fee was 
Ref: DRN30996612added to the mortgage account interest  would be charged at the applicable rate. YBS 
received the letting application form without payment.  So I think  YBS was entitled  to apply 
the fee to Miss Ws mortgage account. 
YBS confirmed that it hasnt recorded  any late or missed payments relating to Miss Ws 
mortgage account with credit  rating  agencies. 
YBS transferred  about  £213 from Miss Ws savings account to her mortgage  account in 
March 2018 to ensure the mortgage was fully offset.  Since  then it adjusted  her account by 
refunding the interest from 2012  and the £11 fee with effect from January 2018. The transfer  
in March shouldnt  have been  necessary. YBS says Miss W can transfer this back to the 
offset savings account  if she wishes. It pointed out that no interest is paid on the offset 
account. Otherwise, I think the adjustments made  by YBS to Miss Ws mortgage account  
have returned  her to the position she should  have been in had it not made  an error. 
YBS said it asked Miss W to complete  and return a disclaimer form so that it can send 
copies of call recordings to her. It says it hasnt received the completed  form. YBS says once  
it receives the completed disclaimer form its team  will be happy to provide any relevant call 
recordings Miss W requests. 
Miss W was upset  about the errors  on her account. And I can understand that having to 
contact YBS more than once to get a clear answer about what  had happened was 
inconvenient and frustrating. I think its appropriate for YBS to offer compensation for this. I 
think its offer of £175 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. YBS says,  due to the time 
passed, Miss W might need  to contact it about replacement cheques  if she decides to accept 
its offer.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  Yorkshire  Building  Societys  
response and offer of compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3099661