K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him two Silver packaged bank 
accounts, in 2007 and 2014. Hes used a Claims Management Company (CMC) to make 
this complaint. 
background
Lloyds objected at us looking at the sale of the first Silver account as it thought that the 
complaint was brought too late. One of our adjudicators  looked  into this and agreed  that the 
complaint was brought too late. Mr Cs representative did not object to this and therefore the 
case was passed  to a different adjudicator to look into the sale of the second  Silver account 
taken out in 2014, who they did not think that this Silver account was mis-sold. 
Mr Cs representative did not agree  with this and therefore this complaint was passed  to me 
to issue a decision. In this decision  I will only be looking at the sale of the Silver account 
taken out in 2014.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint. Having done so, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Silver account to Mr C. Id like to explain why I think thats the case.  
Firstly, I will consider whether Mr C was given a fair choice to take out the Silver  account. I 
can see that Mr C had held a free account  for several years  with Lloyds prior to the taking 
out the silver account for the second time, so I think that he would have been reasonably 
aware that Lloyds  did free accounts  and they were  an option for him.
Mr C has said that he thought he had taken out a fee-free account and he did not ask for a 
paid for account.  But as stated above  he had already held a fee free account  with Lloyds for 
several years and I can see that he signed  an application form to change  his account to the 
Silver account. Mr C has not explained what he was told that made  him agree to change his 
free account  to a Silver, if all that he wanted  was a fee-free account that he already held. 
I also can see that there is a note from the time Mr C downgraded from the first Silver  
account saying  he wanted to downgrade as he was not using the benefits and did not want  
to pay for an account at that point. So this suggests that by the time he took out the second 
Silver account he was aware that the account  was optional,  it came with benefits and that 
there was a fee. So overall, I think that its more likely that he agreed  to the second account 
knowing he did not have  to as something  attracted him to it.
Lloyds and Mr C have  said that the Silver account  was recommended to Mr C, our 
adjudicator did not think  it was recommended  to Mr C. Overall,  I think that the account was 
recommended to him. Due to this Lloyds had to ensure that the account was right for him. In 
this instance the major benefits that the account  came with were  European  travel  insurance, 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. I note that Mr C has said that he did not 
travel, did not own a car and did not own a smart phone. However,  I can see that there is 
evidence of travel after the account  was taken. And I can see payments to mobile phone 
providers. So, I think that its possible he couldve  found the travel  insurance and mobile  
Ref: DRN39709062phone insurance  benefit useful. This is the cheapest  account  that was available that had 
these benefits.  Therefore,  I dont think that Lloyds  recommendation was inappropriate.
I accept that Mr C may not have been  told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with, but I cannot see anything specific  that he was not told that I think 
wouldve altered  his decision to take out the account. Mr C may now,  with the benefit of 
hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted  from the account as much he had hoped and 
expected when he initially took it out. And given what he may have read and heard about  
packaged accounts, I can understand why he might  now believe this account was mis-sold. 
But I dont think he was misled into taking it. So, I want  to reassure Mr C that having looked  
at everything provided and thought  about  what hes said, I dont think Lloyds  mis-sold  the 
Silver account to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3970906