K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc has not met her full claim, brought under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, after she experienced problems with her package  holiday. 
She wants compensation of £1,000 per person, which amounts to £4,000.
background 
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by a friend  Mr M, but for ease of reading Ill mostly 
refer to her.
Mrs W tells us that she made a booking  for herself  and three other family members for a 
holiday abroad. The holiday was arranged through an operator Ill refer to as "A". She says 
the total cost for the two week holiday was a few pence under £5,000 and included flights, 
accommodation and board. She says the holiday was part-paid for by credit card with the 
balance paid in cash.
Mrs W states that the flight was delayed  by over two hours and when they arrived  at the 
hotel her party found that building works  were  in progress. She says the noise lasted from 
early morning to 10pm at night; the lift didnt  work;  some amenities were unavailable; and the 
toilet in her room didnt flush properly. She feels the holiday was ruined and says that if shed 
known building  work was in progress  she wouldve cancelled it.
Lloyds accepted that the merchant (the hotel owners) had fallen short  in the notice that had 
been given about the building  work.  And it accepted that the noise  would have impacted on 
the familys enjoyment of their holiday. It said the breakdown of costs between  flight  and 
accommodation was 60% - 40%.  So that the total accommodation cost was £2,000.  It said it 
was willing  to refund £1,000 of this amount.  Lloyds  told us that the holiday was fully 
inclusive, so it felt this offer was fair as Mrs Ws party had been provided  with 
accommodation, food and drink for the duration of the all-inclusive holiday.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 September  2019. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint and that I would require Lloyds to pay £1,500 in compensation. Since I 
issued my provisional decision Lloyds has acknowledged its receipt  but not added any 
further comment. Mr M replied on behalf  of Mrs W, accepting  my provisional  decision. I 
thank both parties for their replies  but as Ive not been provided with any further information I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision which is largely  repeated in my final 
decision as set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs W and her family didnt get the enjoyment that was expected from this 
family holiday. And I accept that having travelled several thousand miles, to then suffer such 
disruption, makes things that much more disappointing. This claim has been brought under 
section 75 and whilst I dont apply  the law - directly  - I do take it into account. But its 
important to note that - as this complaint is brought against Lloyds - Im looking at whether it 
handled Mrs Ws claim fairly rather than deciding upon the merits of any underlying claim  
she may have against the package holiday provider. But I do take this into consideration in 
determining if Lloyds  has dealt with her claim properly.
Ref: DRN38570912If a breach  of contract and/or misrepresentation occurs in relation to the supply of goods or 
services, section 75 potentially provides a customer - who has used certain types  of credit to 
pay for the goods/services - with a "like" claim against the supplier  of that credit as they 
would have against the supplier of the goods or services.  It requires  various pre-conditions 
to be met before  a claim can be validated. But, as Lloyds is not disputing  that the required 
pre-conditions are met I neednt go into further  detail. This means  that my decision is 
directed primarily towards the level of compensation which Mrs W should receive on behalf 
of herself and her family.
Although I agree that the holiday is to be treated as a whole experience,  that doesnt mean I
can ignore those parts of the "package" which were provided reasonably  in line with
expectations and contractual obligations. Although there were  delays  to the outward flight  -
and it seems not all facilities on board were fully operational - the main  purpose of the flight
was to transport passengers safely to their chosen  destination. This was successfully
achieved. Flight delays  are usually covered by a separate compensation scheme and the
delays in this case were insufficient to trigger any payments under that scheme. So I shant
be asking Lloyds to do anything more about this.
Whilst A did - at very short notice - write to Mrs W and advise about the building work, she 
says - and I accept - she didnt receive this notice before the holiday. Whilst we all may have 
different ideas about what makes for a satisfactory  holiday, its a fair assumption that few of 
us would choose to travel and find ourselves in the midst of building and refurbishment work 
throughout the day and into late evening. So I accept that shed have  chosen  not to go if 
shed known of the disruption beforehand.
Mrs Ws main complaint  about the hotel is the noise  from the building works  which  lasted 
into late evening. Although she refers to other problems, including  issues  with the lift and 
toilet flush, it seems she was able to overcome such difficulties. I accept that being so far 
from home it wasnt practical to "escape"  and seek an alternative hotel. So I find that the 
enjoyment of the holiday  was seriously  impaired.
I have to make my decision  on this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. And in this case I think that requires me to take into consideration those parts  of 
the holiday which were  provided. I understand this was a "fully inclusive" package with food 
and drink provided as part of the overall price. So its fair to conclude that - even  if Mrs W 
and her party had been able to go elsewhere - they would still have incurred the cost of food 
and drink alongside any accommodation.
Its never a precise exercise in assessing the amount of compensation which should be 
awarded - for impairment or loss of enjoyment - when a service falls short  of the required 
standard. But here Im assisted by the cost breakdown  of the various  component parts.  Im 
not of the view that it would be fair and reasonable to order the refund of any part of the flight 
costs. I dont think most people would  consider  a flight as a feature that they would look to 
obtain enjoyment from. I think its likely to be viewed as being  merely an essential but 
incidental part of the holiday arrangements. So I shant require Lloyds to refund any part of 
the flight costs.
Ref: DRN38570913Taking into account the experience at the hotel, Id assess the level of impairment as being  
75%. Id expect most people to look upon  a resort holiday  based  in a fully inclusive hotel, as 
an opportunity to relax  and enjoy the facilities. So its probable that most of the holiday 
period would be spent within the immediate grounds of the hotel. Food  and drink,  whilst an 
essential part of the deal,  are also part of everyday life and have to be paid for even outside 
of holidays. And Ive seen nothing to suggest  that this part of the experience wasnt  
satisfactory other than the background disruption. So I think its right that Mrs W should 
expect to pay for this aspect. But whilst  accommodation was provided - the enjoyment of that 
was seriously impaired - and Mrs W and her family  had no practical  option  but to remain. Ive 
therefore reached the conclusion that Lloyds should  provide a refund of 75% of the hotel 
costs. This amounts to £1,500 in total.
I accept that Mrs W will be disappointed that Im not awarding her as much as she feels 
shes due. But for the reasons Ive given,  I think the suggested amount is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
In settlement  of this complaint  I require Lloyds Bank Plc to refund Mrs W £1,500,  together 
with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3857091