K820x#14complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
Mr Lender lent Mr P a loan for £200 in November 2018. The loan was due to be repaid in 
three instalments; the highest instalment repayment was £106.60 and theres a balance  
outstanding on this loan.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ps complaint  but didnt think it should  be upheld.  Our 
adjudicator thought that Mr Lender did enough before agreeing to lend this loan. Mr P 
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr Lender has told this service about the checks it carried  out before lending  to Mr P. It has 
said it checked his income, which Mr P declared  as £2,083.  Mr Lender also asked Mr P 
about his normal  living costs including loan repayments and other  regular outgoings  Mr P 
declared his total outgoing to be £904.  This included: rent/mortgage - £300,  utilities  - £125, 
food and travel - £140, phone - £58, council  tax - £25, other loans - £116, other regular  
outgoings - £140.
Mr Lender also says it searched Mr Ps credit  file when it considered his application. It has 
provided the results  of its search and the results show that at the time, Mr P had no defaults 
or bankruptcies recorded on his file. 
The regulation at the time Mr Ps loan was approved didnt require lenders to carry out credit 
checks. And when lenders did carry out credit checks, they werent required to search  a 
customers files to any specific  extent.  What this means is that Mr Lender didnt need to 
complete a thorough search of Mr Ps credit  file before it lent. But I think its reasonable to 
expect Mr Lender to react  to the information it found  from any of its searches.
Ref: DRN30782072Mr P disagreed with the adjudicator specifically because he says his circumstances at the 
time of this loan were  concerning. Mr P says he was borrowing from other short  term lenders 
and was in debt with his overdraft and credit cards  and a search of his credit  file wouldve 
shown this.
I dont doubt that Mr Ps actual financial position was as he says. Ive seen copies of his 
credit file and bank statements he provided  and I can see that at the time of this loan, he had 
no defaults or bankruptcies recorded on his file. I can also see that hed recently repaid at 
least two other short  term lenders before  he took out this loan and on the day he took out 
this loan, he borrowed from other short term lenders as well. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show that Mr Lenders search  of Mr Ps credit  file went  into 
the detail about his previous short term loan use. I can see that Mr P went on to borrow from 
other short term lenders  on the same day this loan was approved but again,  I havent seen 
evidence that Mr Lender was aware of this.
As stated above, Mr Lender didnt have to search Mr Ps credit file or do so to any specific  
extent, so I cant say its done  something  wrong  because of its credit checks. However, Ive 
considered what  Mr Lenders checks revealed  and what it knew  about Mr P at the time it lent 
to him. And what Mr Lender  knew about  Mr P didnt suggest hed struggle to repay  the loan.
Mr Ps income was over £2,000 and the highest loan repayment was around  5% of his 
declared income. Mr P was specifically asked about how much he spent  on loan repayments 
each month  and the figure he declared  plus all his other monthly expenses  suggested  that 
he had more than £1,000  in disposable  income each month
Mr Lenders credit search didnt reveal  concerning information about  Mr Ps finances  and I 
havent seen anything that suggests  Mr Lender  should have taken  its checks  further and 
shouldnt have lent to Mr P. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to rely on what  
Mr P declared about his circumstances  at this early  stage  of the lending relationship. 
So having  carefully thought about  the circumstances of this particular loan, I dont  think  
Mr Lender was wrong to lend to Mr P. Mr Lender wasnt  aware  of Mr Ps actual  financial  
circumstances and I dont  think it ought  to have  been aware from what  I consider reasonable 
checks. I appreciate  my conclusions will disappoint Mr P but I hope my explanation helps to 
clarify why Ive reached these conclusions.
I understand theres an outstanding balance  on this loan and Id remind Mr Lender of its duty 
to treat Mr P positively and sympathetically  as he appears to be struggling to repay the loan.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint or make  any awards 
against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3078207