K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the poor service  shes received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(Tesco Bank) about her credit card account.
She doesnt think Tesco Bank has properly dealt with transactions that she didnt authorise.  
And to make  matters  worse, shes been charged fees (which were  later refunded) and sent 
monthly and annual statements that dont  make sense. Lastly, shes  still waiting for an 
annual statement for 2016  2017.  All of this has been very stressful  for Mrs P and made her 
unwell.
Mrs P is being helped in her complaint  by her husband, Mr P. For ease,  Ill just refer to Mrs P 
in this decision (as shes the account  holder).
background
The detailed timeline of what happened with a number  of transactions on Mrs Ps credit card 
account since August  2018 have been  set out by the investigator  in his opinion  on this 
complaint. As the dates and amounts themselves arent in dispute, I wont repeat them  here. 
But I hope both parties will accept what follows as a brief summary:
Early in August 2018 Mrs P let her son use her credit card;
When he filled his car up with petrol there  was a problem with the payment  and it went 
through twice (Ill call this the duplicated transaction  for ease);
Mrs Ps son mislaid the card  so Mrs P rang Tesco Bank the next day and it cancelled  
the card and issued  a new one;
When Mrs P got her statement she saw the duplicated transaction  and queried it with the 
garage in question.  It told her to contact Tesco Bank, which  she did;
Tesco Bank refunded  the duplicated transaction;
But, by then Mrs P had paid her bill in full  so she ended  up in credit;
Mrs P drew cash out  but this resulted in a fee being charged;
Tesco Bank refunded  the fee and paid Mrs P £25 as a gesture of goodwill (by cheque);
But this refund  (as it was money  taken out of the account)  resulted  in another fee being 
charged;
This second  fee was refunded (again by cheque) and Tesco Bank  had to carry out further 
adjustments to Mrs Ps account  to deal with the fees that resulted;
While  this was going on, transactions showed on Mrs Ps statements that she clearly 
hadnt made   so Tesco  Bank  refunded those. And it cancelled  Mrs Ps card and issued  
her with another  (third)  one;
But the delay and overlap between when the refunds were made and Mrs P paid her bill 
meant her account statements didnt  make sense. She was concerned  that she was in 
debt when  she knew shed paid everything  that was due;
This prompted  her to look at the annual statements she got from Tesco  Bank  and they 
showed different amounts spent and paid (back). Mrs P was worried this meant  shed 
overpaid  and might be due much bigger refunds from Tesco  Bank;
Ref: DRN32473892All of this was a great worry to Mrs P so she wanted Tesco Bank  to send her earlier  
statements, but it didnt  send her the one for 2016  2017;
Throughout this process  Mrs P says Tesco Bank didnt  respond properly to letters and the 
letters sent with the refund cheques werent helpful. And she didnt think Tesco Bank had 
given her or Mr P proper information when they phoned; and
Tesco Bank sent Mrs P a cheque for £100  to make up for all the trouble shed suffered.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ps complaint. In summary, he said neither party was to 
blame. He was satisfied  Tesco Bank had refunded all the money that Mrs P was due  itd 
followed the proper  processes for doing this. Mrs Ps problems were  made  worse  because 
shed (rightly)  paid her bills in full. But the delay  and overlap between  the refunds and the 
payments Mrs P made meant  shed  ended up with statements that didnt make a lot of 
sense.
And he could understand the confusion  about  the amounts spent and paid (back) on the 
annual statements but was satisfied Mrs P wasnt due any money. He did think it might  be 
helpful if Tesco Bank was able to make arrangements for Mr P to deal with Mrs Ps account  
on her behalf  to hopefully  reduce  the worry Mrs P might have over things.
Mrs P didnt agree with what  the investigator  said. She thought  the investigator was siding 
with Tesco  Bank  and he hadnt  really  understood the problems shed had. Mrs P was still 
concerned that she was owed money because  the annual statements had different amounts 
on them   particularly as she hadnt  got the 2016  2017 one yet.
As Mrs P didnt agree  with what the investigator said, her complaints been passed to me to 
review and issue a final decision  on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs P (and equally Mr P) feels very strongly about whats  happened  here.  Thats 
clear from what  shes said to Tesco  Bank and to our investigator. And thats not surprising.
Mrs P has had a lot of statements on her account  that are difficult  to follow. Shes worried 
that Tesco Bank might owe her quite a lot of money. And shes  very upset about the way 
Tesco Bank has dealt  with her various issues. She says its made  her quite unwell.  So it isnt 
any surprise that Mrs P is worried about  things.
First, its most important  that I reassure Mrs P that we dont take sides when we look at 
complaints  were  impartial.  We look at the information provided by both parties.  Where  a 
bank has done  something wrong,  we will tell it to put things right.
Ive reviewed the whole file. But Ill focus  on what are clearly the main issues of concern to 
Mrs P. So if I dont  mention every  detail, its not because  I havent looked at, or considered,  
them.
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs P has been upset by whats happened since the duplicate 
transaction showed on her statement  and particularly that its made  her unwell.  I hope  that 
shell soon  be able to put this difficult time behind her.
Ref: DRN32473893But Im afraid I have to tell Mrs P that Im not upholding  her complaint about Tesco Bank. 
I agree  with our investigator that it hasnt done anything wrong  as such  in terms of all of 
the transactions on her account.
I do agree  with Mrs P that Tesco Bank hasnt dealt with things as well as it could or should 
have done. But Im satisfied the amount of compensation Tesco  Bank has paid Mrs P is 
enough to make up for that. So Im not telling Tesco Bank to do anything more.
In many ways, there isnt a great deal I can add to what our investigator has already  said. 
I think hes set out the reasons why Tesco Bank hasnt done  anything wrong quite 
thoroughly. But in order to help Mrs P, Ill summarise how I see whats  happened for each of 
the main areas of concern.
disputed transactions
Mrs P did the right thing  in telling Tesco Bank  as soon as she noticed something on her 
statements that didnt  look right.
In terms of the duplicated transaction  at the garage,  Tesco Bank  refunded this  because the 
garage didnt challenge  the bank when it went through the proper process for this. The 
problem arose because Mrs P had paid her bill in full before the refund was put on her 
account.
Mrs P was right to pay her bill. Shes always paid her bills in full. Thats really good. But the 
delay in the refund being put on her account made  her go into credit. That led to more  
problems because she (understandably) took money out of her account, as she didnt have 
any particular need to buy things using her credit card. But because  this was a cash  
transaction it resulted in a fee being  charged.
I can see from the later statements and the  very short  letters Tesco  Bank sent Mrs P that 
it has refunded her all of the fees that have been  charged. But I accept it can be difficult to 
follow through from one statement to the next exactly whats  happened.
The same is true of the other transactions Mrs P told Tesco Bank  that she hadnt  made.  
Again, the delay  and overlap in those refunds meant the next statement would look odd. And 
because Mrs P (again,  rightly) paid her bills in full the problems kept rolling on from month to 
month. Its rather  like a snowball effect.  The fact that Tesco Banks  automated system  
correctly  generated a fee when  credits were paid (by cheque)  didnt help.
Theres no criticism  of Mrs P here. But equally,  I cant say Tesco Bank  did anything wrong. 
Its just unfortunate  the delay and overlap of the refunds and when Mrs P statements were 
produced has led to some confusion.
Its most  important that I reassure Mrs P that Im satisfied shes  had all the money that shes  
due in respect of the disputed transactions and fees that have been charged  to her account.  
Ive looked at all the statements available and letters that were sent with the various  cheques  
 and they are correct.
Ref: DRN32473894annual statements
Given Mrs Ps concerns about  the figures quoted on her monthly  statements, it isnt 
surprising she was worried  about  the different figures on the annual  statements.
The idea of the annual statement is so that a customer can see at a glance how much they 
have:
borrowed  (by using their credit  card);
paid back; and
been charged (in interest and/or fees), in a 12 month period.
As much as anything, its designed  to help people understand if they might be overspending 
or underpaying over a long period of time  resulting in debt that they cant  manage.
Clearly thats not the case for Mrs P. She always  pays her bills in full and on time.
The problem with annual  statements is that they simply take the information from the 
relevant 12 months  statements and add them together. The amount spent each month  is 
clear enough   as is the amount that has been paid. But the amount paid refers  to the 
spending on the previous  months statement. So, like the problems with the various 
transactions above there is a natural delay and overlap that makes  things look odd. I hope 
the following  example table will help Mrs P.
Statement Spending Payment
(for previous month)Comments
January £100 £200   (for December)
February £100 £100
March £100 £100
April £100 £100
May £0 £100   (for April)
June £200 £0       (for May)
July £100 £200   (for June)
August £100 £100
September £100 £100
October £100 £100
November £100 £100
December £100 £100All the payments 
required in the 12 
month period  have  
been made.
Because the spending 
in some months was 
different  and paid in 
full the next month  
the annual statement 
will show:
Spending: £1,200;
Payment: £1,300.
From the above table  it can be seen there  is no refund due from any overpayment. It is 
simply that an annual  statement shows what has appeared on 12 monthly statements. It is a 
rolling process. This is normal. But I can understand why Mrs P may have had concerns 
about the annual statements shes received.
Im aware Mrs P hasnt  had a copy of her annual statement for 2016   2017. I expect Tesco 
Bank to provide  this to her. But I hope shell  now see that there  is nothing  unusual in having  
different amount in the spending (borrowing)  and payment amounts.
Ref: DRN32473895Based on what Ive seen,  Ive no reason  to think Tesco Bank  owes Mrs P any money in this 
regard.
service
Its clear Mrs P hasnt been  impressed  with how Tesco Bank  has dealt with things. In some  
respects, I agree with her.
But I do need to be clear that Tesco  Bank has acted correctly by refunding  transactions 
when it has done  so. And rather than just leave credit balances on a card that Mrs P clearly 
doesnt use a great  deal it paid her those balances by cheque.  That was the right thing to do. 
But I do understand how Mrs P might  have felt when getting those one line letters. They  
were rather  impersonal.
Tesco Bank didnt  respond to letters  as quickly as Mrs P would have liked. Given her 
concerns about  transactions and fees on her account,  thats understandable. And with 
hindsight Tesco Bank has acknowledged  it put the later letters sent by Mrs P on the file 
about her earlier complaint over the disputed  transactions. But, in general, I dont think the 
delays were that long.  It can take time for a bank  to look into things properly.
I have thought about what compensation  might be appropriate for the poor service  arising 
from the problems  Mrs P has had. And Im satisfied  the total of £125 already paid makes  up 
for that and the costs Mrs P incurred in sending registered letters  to Tesco  Bank. So Im not 
asking Tesco Bank to do any more.
summary
I know Mrs P may be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what  we, as an 
informal dispute resolution service, can do for her. Im sorry that were not able to help Mrs P 
any further.
That said I hope the above  explains why Im satisfied Mrs P isnt owed any money. The 
service shes received from Tesco Bank hasnt always  been as good  as it might have been. 
But Im satisfied the amount Tesco Bank  has already paid Mrs P makes up for that.
I do hope Mrs P soon feels better and is able to put this unfortunate set of problems  behind  
her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint and not asking Tesco Personal  Finance PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.  
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3247389