K822xcomplaint
Miss P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc did not process a chargeback as she 
requested.
background 
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I intend to uphold Miss Ps 
complaint in part. An extract of that provisional  decision is set out below.
On 3 November  2018 Miss P made a payment of £243 from her current account  to a retailer  
using her Visa debit card. The payment was for a hairdressing appointment.
Miss P was unhappy  with the quality  of the service  provided. She has sent us evidence  that 
she contacted  the retailer  directly  to complain that the services  she received were  not as 
agreed and asked it to rectify the problem.  Miss P has said the retailer  did not respond so, 
as a result, she requested that NatWest refund the transaction by processing a chargeback.  
NatWest declined as it said it was unable to assist  with disputes about quality of service.  
Miss P complained to NatWest as she felt this was incorrect. 
Under certain circumstances, consumers  can ask their card issuer to reverse  payments 
made on their card  by raising  a chargeback.  The rules around chargebacks are set by the 
card scheme, in this case Visa. Card  issuers, in this case NatWest, have to apply and abide 
by these rules. Ive referred  to the relevant  scheme  rules  in this case issued by Visa.
The Visa scheme rules explain the various  different reasons that chargeback can be 
processed. And one of these is if the cardholder  disputes the quality of the merchandise  or 
services received. NatWest said in its response to Miss P we do not have the grounds  to 
raise a dispute when  a customer is dissatisfied with the quality of service  received. But 
according to the rule Ive quoted, that is incorrect. So what NatWest told Miss P was wrong.
Ive explained  this to NatWest. And since doing  so it has offered a couple of reasons why it 
still thinks there was not a valid reason  to initiate a chargeback. First it said that by entering 
her PIN, Miss P accepted  the services  provided.  But having read the scheme  rules  I cant  
see that the relevant chargeback rule makes any mention of payment by chip and PIN 
preventing cardholders from later disputing quality.  It also said there  isnt any evidence  that 
the quality of service  was questioned or challenged at the time of payment. But again,  I cant  
see any mention of this being a requirement  in the relevant rule. So I dont agree that there 
was no valid reason to attempt  a chargeback. And the bank didnt give these reasons to 
Miss P at the time. It simply said there  was no right to initiate a chargeback  which as Ive 
said appears to be incorrect. 
NatWest has also said to our service that it isnt required to raise  a chargeback. And this is 
correct. But where there is a valid reason  for raising a chargeback  and the information 
suggests that chargeback may be successful  the ombudsman service  would, as a matter  of 
good practice, expect  NatWest to try. 
Miss P has said that as she requested the chargeback in time there is no doubt  it wouldve 
been successful.  But the chargeback initially going through  does not mean it is successful.  
Retailers still have the opportunity to respond  via their bank and defend the chargeback / 
refuse a refund. And only after that is it clear if the chargeback has been successful or not. 
And this is what wed expect card issuers,  like NatWest here, to think about.
Ref: DRN34290002NatWest has now indicated that it doesnt think the chargeback wouldve succeeded  as it 
wouldve been very difficult to prove the quality  of the services provided. The issue here 
though is that it never actually investigated  the circumstances. NatWest  incorrectly said 
there was no valid reason  for attempting the chargeback and didnt ask Miss P to provide 
any further information. So as no investigation  took place, it isnt clear what the likely 
outcome wouldve been.
Miss P has shown that she contacted  the retailer by email after the appointment  to express 
that she was unhappy  and what she was unhappy  about with the services  the cut and 
colour were  not what was requested. And she has said that the retailed hasnt responded. 
So it might be that the chargeback wouldve been successful. But at the same  time, it isnt 
clear what  was requested,  if that was the service that the retailer  agreed to provide and how 
different what was provided and what was expected were.  It isnt in dispute that a service 
was provided. And nothing Miss P has sent us suggests she raised concerns at the time, 
which the retailer may well have argued. I also think the nature of the service,  hair styling,  is 
subjective and happiness with the service provided  can come down to taste.  And because  of 
that it would  be difficult to say that the quality  of the service wasnt sufficient. So I think there  
is at least an equal chance that the chargeback may have been defended.
As it stands, while I know Miss P feels strongly  about this, I dont think  there is enough 
evidence to reasonably decide  whether the chargeback wouldve been successful or not. So 
I dont think I can reasonably ask NatWest  to refund the transaction to Miss P, as that could 
put her in a position she wouldnt otherwise have been in. 
But a large  part of the reason why there  isnt enough  evidence is that NatWest didnt 
investigate the circumstances as I think it shouldve  denying the opportunity  for this to be 
resolved. And NatWest  provided incorrect information to Miss P and continued to do so, 
despite her raising  reasonable  objections.  I think these actions have caused her 
unnecessary trouble  and upset. 
So taking everything into account, while I dont think NatWest should have to refund the 
transaction itself I think it should compensate Miss P for the unnecessary upset it has 
caused by not investigating her chargeback request properly. And in the circumstances I 
think £150 would be a fair and reasonable resolution.
responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
NatWest accepted my provisional findings  and agreed to the redress  proposed.
Miss P rejected my decision. She said the chargeback rules were clear  that the burden of 
proof was on the merchant to refute  her claims by providing compelling evidence   and she 
set out the legal definition  of compelling. She said the merchant had not responded when 
she initially  asked it to remedy the situation so she felt it was clear  that it would have been  
unable to provide  the level of evidence required to defend a chargeback. As a result  she felt 
it was clear the chargeback would have succeeded.  As a result she still thinks NatWest 
should refund the full transaction, in addition  to paying the £150 I recommended in my 
provisional findings for the distress its actions  have caused.
Ref: DRN34290003my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The ombudsman service  is an impartial dispute  resolution body. We are an alternative to the 
courts and our remit is to decide things on a fair and reasonable basis. As I said, Miss P has 
given legal definitions  of terms within the chargeback  rules  and what they mean for the 
merchant in order to support  their case.  And while Ive taken on board these comments  and 
the contents of the chargeback rules set by Visa,  overall Ive looked  at what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Having done so, while I know Miss P feels strongly about this, I dont agree with her that it is 
clear a chargeback  wouldve been  successful here. I dont think its reasonable to conclude 
that the merchant  not responding to Miss Ps email is enough to say it would have given no 
response if a chargeback  was raised.
The chargeback rules do talk about  a merchant being required to provide compelling 
evidence to dispute a claim. And examples are given  of what  this would be. But the dispute 
here has not reached the point of a claim and rebuttal.  I also think  the level of what  might be 
considered compelling  would  be gauged in relation to the level of evidence provided by the 
party bringing the dispute. And also by the nature of the dispute  itself  in this case that the 
services provided were not as described. Otherwise the system would be potentially  unfair.  
Miss P has acknowledged there was no written  contract  the level of service  was agreed 
verbally. So it could  be that counter testimony would be considered  equally compelling.
Having taken this, and everything  discussed  in my provisional decision about the nature of 
the services, into account Im still of the opinion that there is just not enough  evidence  to 
safely conclude a claim wouldve succeeded. So as I cant say its more likely than not 
Miss P wouldve received  a refund if a chargeback had been  processed, I cant  reasonably  
say that NatWest not processing one has caused her a loss or ask it to refund the 
transaction.
I do though remain  of the opinion that the incorrect information provided  to Miss P about the 
chargeback process  contributed to the current position  not knowing if the chargeback  
would succeed.  And that this was likely to have  caused her unnecessary upset. So I think 
NatWest should  compensate  her for the upset caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint in part.
National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Miss P £150 for the upset caused by its handling 
of her chargeback claim.
Ref: DRN34290004Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3429000