K820x#14complaint
Mr Q says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr Q had two loans  with Mr Lender  a £500 loan in October 2017 and a £750  loan in 
February 2018.
An adjudicator considered  Mr Qs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr Q didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Q 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
There may also come a point where  the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But as Mr Q only had two loans with 
Mr Lender, I dont think that point arose  in his case.  Ive therefore primarily focussed on 
whether Mr Lender carried out proportionate  checks.
I think Mr Lender  did carry out proportionate checks before  lending  to Mr Q. It asked him to 
provide it with information about his income and expenditure and the information Mr Q 
provided suggested both loans were  affordable. I think Mr Lender acted reasonably by 
accepting and relying on the information  Mr Q provided. As Ive said above,  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable.
I appreciate that Mr Q says he had a lot of other payday loans. But I dont think Mr Lender 
was aware of this  the credit check  it carried out didnt go into that much detail  and it 
wasnt required to carry out a credit check in any particular way (or at all). The information 
Mr Lender obtained  showed that Mr Q didnt have any insolvency arrangements or recent 
defaults. So it had no reason to think Mr Q was in financial  difficulty.
This means  I dont  think Mr Lender was irresponsible when it lent to Mr Q. Im therefore not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  PDL Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Ref: DRN33958312Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3395831