K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) has recorded adverse 
information about him to CIFAS, one of the UKs  fraud alert services.
Mr U has been helped  with his complaint by a representative. But for ease of reading, 
Ill only refer to Mr U himself.
background
In 2016 Mr Us account was used to receive almost  £6,000 in two amounts and over the 
following three days it was all withdrawn  in cash. The day after this, Mr U reported  that he 
hadnt carried out the transactions.  RBS refunded the money whilst it investigated. It told 
Mr U that it would remove the refund if further  information about his claim was available. 
Mr U immediately transferred £4,000 to another account. Two weeks  later RBS gave Mr U 
notice that it would be taking back the amount it had refunded to his account.
Mr U is now concerned that a CIFAS marker has been placed against  his name. This is 
preventing him from getting the job hed like and he hasnt  been able to open another account.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. He believed  that Mr U had 
either made the withdrawals himself or allowed a third party to use his account to receive  
and remove money from it. As Mr U couldnt prove  he was entitled to the funds and hed 
benefitted from them, the adjudicator thought  the CIFAS marker had been  applied fairly.
Mr U didnt accept this. In summary,  he doesnt think that the bank had proved that hed 
committed a criminal offence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied the transfers into Mr Us account  were fraudulent and werent authorised by the 
respective account  holders. Their own banks  will have investigated those payments before 
reaching that conclusion. 
Mr U says that he knew nothing about  the withdrawals that followed the receipt  of the 
money. He complained to us about  this in 2017.  He said that he didnt report his previous 
card as lost so he was unsure how a new card, which was used to make the withdrawals,  
was ordered. He thought  the replacement card was intercepted from the post and someone  
else carried out the transactions. He said this was possible  because he lived in the block  of 
flats. We thought it was unlikely  that he didnt know anything about  what  had happened and 
thought RBS had acted  fairly at the time. 
Mr U has now asked RBS to remove the CIFAS marker it recorded against him in 2016. In 
order to decide  whether  RBS needs to remove  the marker, I need to consider the 
circumstances in which those transactions took place. I also need  to consider whether the 
report to CIFAS was made fairly.  On this point, RBS needs to have more than a suspicion or 
concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds  to believe that a fraud or financial crime 
had been committed  or attempted.  The evidence  it has would have to be enough to support 
this being reported to the authorities.
Ref: DRN32551702money received
Mr U has now said that he expected to receive some money into his account for some  goods 
he had sold. But he didnt  tell RBS this when he disputed the cash withdrawals. He said at 
the time,  that he hadnt used his card because he didnt have any money coming in. He 
hasnt been able to produce  any evidence to show that he was expecting to receive almost 
£6,000 and, given the amount,  I would have expected him to be able to do so. He said that 
when he sold such goods he did it by word of mouth so there wouldnt have evidence. I 
have checked  his bank statements for the preceding 18 months  and there are no other  large 
amounts paid into his account to show that he did this from time to time.
cash withdrawals
RBS records show that Mr Us card was reported  as lost or stolen on 30 June  2016.  The 
following day it sent a new card to Mr Us address. A week  later it sent out a PIN, again to Mr 
Us address. Mr U has suggested that these could have been  intercepted  in the post. Whilst I 
accept this is possible, previous cards and PIN advices have been sent to Mr Us address 
and he has received them. And I dont consider it likely that a third party  would order the 
card and PIN and risk being  able to intercept them  in the post a week  apart.
£1,500 was removed from Mr Us account the day after the credit  was received, without a 
balance enquiry before the first withdrawal and using the correct PIN. I think  that whoever 
withdrew the money already knew  there was enough money  in the account.  The maximum 
ATM amount  was withdrawn each day within a short period of time.  There  were then no 
further attempts  to take more cash on that day so whoever made the withdrawals knew the 
account cash withdrawal  limit as well. If it was an unknown third party  then I would have 
expected to see some failed attempts to withdraw  more cash.
online banking activity
The two fraudulent payments arrived into the account within  a day of each other. RBS has 
shown that in that time period Mr U logged on to his online  banking  a number of times  each  
day during the time that the cash withdrawals were  taking  place.  Prior  to receiving the 
incoming payments Mr Us account was overdrawn.  
Mr U logged on to his account just under three hours after the first three withdrawals were 
made all within a couple of minutes. He continued to log into his account throughout the time 
from when the money was received  and over the next three days when the cash withdrawals 
took place. I consider that it is likely that, at a minimum, Mr U would have  seen that his 
overdraft had reduced substantially when he logged  on after the first cash  withdrawals and 
so checked the transactions for his account  during this time. And Mr U logged on to his 
account at least  five times the day before he reported the withdrawals  from the account. 
During all of his online  activity, I think,  at the very least, he would have seen his account  
balance changing.  Mr U said that he didnt make the withdrawals  himself,  so I think he would 
have been extremely  concerned about  what was happening on his account. I would have 
expected him to immediately report withdrawals he didnt recognise, particularly given the 
amounts and frequency, as soon  as he became aware of them.  But he didnt do so. Based 
on this, I think Mr U had at least  some  awareness  of what was going on.
Ref: DRN32551703CIFAS
RBS says that it applied the CIFAS  marker because Mr U received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So Ive looked at whether RBS was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence  
it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance  says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth  to meet the standard  of proof  set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that RBS needs to have enough information to make a formal  report to the 
police. And that any filing should be for cases where  there  are reasonable grounds to believe 
fraud or financial crime has been  committed,  rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Us account  of events and the evidence RBS has provided, Im satisfied 
that it had sufficient evidence to report matters  to the police to investigate  and so it was 
justified in recording the CIFAS marker.  In coming  to this view,  Ive taken into account  the 
following reasons:
The evidence provided by RBS supports that Mr U received fraudulent  funds into his 
account. He didnt report this to RBS at the time.
He made or allowed  someone else to withdraw  the funds and so was in control of who 
had the benefit  of this money.
RBS had grounds to believe  that Mr U had used fraudulently obtained funds based on 
the evidence it had. 
I appreciate that this will be a great disappointment to Mr U as the marker is causing  him 
difficulty now and in the future. But given what Ive said above, I dont think RBS has treated 
him unfairly  in respect of the disputed transactions and recording the CIFAS marker. So I 
wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3255170