K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is about the sale of two mortgage  endowment policies in 1987  and 1990.  He 
believes they were  mis-sold  because  they matured with shortfalls.  The policies were sold to 
him by Newcastle Building  Society.
background
The first policy was sold in 1987  to Mr S and his then wife. It was arranged  to protect and 
repay their joint interest-only mortgage. The policy was a traditional with profits  arrangement 
with a sum assured/target  value of £25,000  and a term of 20 years.  It matured in 2007 for 
just under £21,000
The second  policy  Mr S is complaining  about was taken out in 1990.  The policy is in his sole 
name and arranged to cover a further advance  of £15,000. Mr S has told us it was arranged 
as part of his divorce settlement. The term of the mortgage and policy was 17 years to match 
the existing mortgage. The endowment policy was again arranged  on a with profits  basis.  It 
was also on a low start basis, with the premiums increasing on the first five policy  
anniversaries.
Mr S paid off his mortgage  in 2001,  but kept the endowment policies, which matured  in 2007.
Mr S raised his complaint with Newcastle Building  Society in 2018. It didnt consider the 
merits of the complaint as it thought it had been  made too late. So Mr S referred the 
complaint to this service.  
As agreement on whether  we could consider the complaint  couldnt  be reached informally, 
the matter was passed to me to consider. I concluded  that we could only consider the 
complaint about  the sale of the 1990 policy; the complaint about  the earlier policy  had been  
made too late.
When submitting his complaint, Mr S completed an endowment mortgage questionnaire  for 
us. This detailed his recollections about his circumstances and the discussions had at the 
times of the policy sales. He told us that he was a 46 year old mechanical engineer earning 
approximately £23,000 each year. He had two dependent children and intended  to retire at 
65. He was divorcing  and increasing his mortgage from £26,500 to £41,500. The term of the 
mortgage remained the same and would  end in 2007 after 17 years.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  
Mr S didnt accept this and asked  that the complaint  be referred  to an ombudsman.  When 
telling the investigator  this Mr S pointed out that all that had been considered was the sale in 
1990; that the changes  thereafter hadnt  been commented on. He explained that in 1997 
hed taken redundancy and his income  dropped  significantly. This change in circumstances  
led him to sell his home in 2001. He maintained the payments to the endowment  policies  
hoping they would achieve  the target  amount on maturity with the plan of using the money  
to buy a small property for his retirement.
Mr S repeated that he believes  the advice he received was incorrect  or misleading as he 
was told the interest-only endowment mortgage was best for him. He said he wasnt  
presented with any other mortgage products to choose from. In relation  to the endowment  
policies, they were sold as with profits  and that this meant  there was a guarantee that the 
Ref: DRN33831072mortgage would definitely be paid off along  with a bonus on top. There was no explanation 
about how the policies were invested, that there  could be a risk or the policies could have a 
shortfall at the end of the term. He said that had he had the capacity to deal with any 
shortfall that arose,  he wouldnt  have made  a complaint. 
Mr S was also concerned  that Newcastle Building Society had more information about  the 
sale that it wasnt sharing  with us so that his complaint couldnt be looked into properly. He 
provided some documentation about the mortgage loan he had with a different lender, which 
was repaid in 2001. In relation to that loan, he said he didnt take out a new mortgage  in 
1995, and hadnt changed lender;  rather hed asked Newcastle Building  Society  to transfer 
the existing mortgage to his new property.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
I would firstly confirm that I have  reviewed my conclusions about our jurisdiction to consider 
Mr S complaint and I remain  satisfied  that I can only consider his concerns about  the sale of 
the 1990 policy. As such I will restrict my consideration and comments to just that policy  
sale.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In order  to do so I must consider the 
suitability of the endowment policy for Mr S based  on his circumstances at the time the 
policy was recommended to him. Events that happened sometime later, which  wouldnt have 
been known about at the time of the advice,  whilst  important to Mr S, arent something I can 
take into account in my consideration.  
I have noted Mr S comments about  the background information we have previously given 
about his lending arrangements. This information was given simply for information and didnt 
have any effect  on the conclusions  reached.  However, I would explain that we detailed a 
change in lender as Newcastle Building  Society and the bank Mr S provided  mortgage 
statements from for the mid-1990s onwards, were at the time, and still are, completely 
separate businesses.
It is unfortunate that there  is little information available  from 1990.  However,  it isnt surprising 
due to the fact it has been nearly 30 years  since the sale and over 10 since  the policy 
matured. Financial businesses are only required to keep records  for a limited  period of time 
and data protection legislation  discourages  keeping  records for longer than absolutely  
necessary. So I cant  find Newcastle Building Society  at fault for not having  records  of the 
sale. Whilst I have noted Mr S concern that Newcastle Building Society might be holding 
information back so that his complaint will be rejected, I have seen  nothing  to indicate  that is 
the case. 
In 1990 Mr S had two dependent children and so the life cover  included within the 
endowment policy could not be said to be inappropriate for his circumstances. He also 
appears to have been in a financially secure position  with an income notably higher than 
average for the time and a mortgage that would not have been stretching at less than twice 
that income. In addition,  the policy matured several years before Mr S anticipated retirement 
date and after his children would stop being  financially dependent  on him. This would 
indicate that if a shortfall had happened  at maturity, Mr S would have had time and capacity  
to deal with it before  his income dropped at retirement.
Ref: DRN33831073Based on his circumstances, Mr S was in a position to take the risks associated with an 
interest-only mortgage and endowment policy had he wished to do so. The policy  he was 
sold was also invested in the lowest risk fund available for such  polices. At the time the risk 
associated with the policy was considered negligible and thought  highly unlikely to ever 
come to fruition. That was not an unreasonable belief at the time, given how such policies 
had been performing up to that time. However,  the perceived small amount of risk did give 
policyholders the potential  for surplus  funds after the mortgage was paid off.
Overall, there is nothing in Mr S circumstances that would lead me to conclude the 
endowment policy was unsuitable  for him in 1990.  Mr S has said that he was told nothing  of 
the risks associated with the endowment policy. Yet it was a requirement  for him to have 
been given an illustration detailing possible maturity values based  on different growth rates,  
which would usually include  one that failed to meet the target  amount. The document would 
also provide a warning  about performance  not being  guaranteed.  Furthermore,  recollection  
of events so long ago may, quite understandably, not be perfect. I also note that Mr S has 
said that when  he stopped using  the policy for mortgage purposes he kept it in the hope  it 
would achieve  its target  at maturity, which would indicate he was aware there was some risk 
associated with it, albeit  one that would  not have been expected in 1990 to come to fruition.  
When upholding a complaint I have to be satisfied the financial business  involved made  a 
mistake or did something wrong. Based on all the evidence I have, whilst I accept it is 
possible Mr S wasnt  made aware of the risks associated with the policy and wouldnt have 
accepted the recommendation  if he had, I dont consider there  is sufficient evidence  that is 
the case. I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I havent  found that the policy was unsuitable for 
him and so mis-sold to him in 1990.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
2 April 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3383107