K822xcomplaint
Mr S complained about the running  of his bank accounts by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) after they were  frozen by court order. Hes told us he suffered  a great deal of 
stress and anxiety as a result.  Hes asked for all fees and charges to be refunded to him 
directly, together  with interest and compensation.
background 
The High Court applied  a Freezing Order to all of Mr S's bank accounts. These included  his 
Barclays Premier  account. Barclays then set up an Everyday  account for Mr S, to allow 
£1,000 a week to be transferred from the frozen  Premier account to cover his living 
expenses.
Bank charges on frozen account
Mr Ss Premier account is a packaged  bank account  (PBA). This means there  was a monthly 
fee of £17.50 attached  for additional  banking services. For a few months,  there was also a 
monthly £10 charge for Premier account  privileges . After the account was frozen, Barclays  
carried on charging monthly fees.  Mr S says that it was unfair to charge him for PBA 
services when he couldnt use them. In their Final  Response  letter  on 30 August 2018, 
Barclays originally said they could only think about returning the fees after the court  had 
unfrozen the account.
Fees and charges on which account?
Under the terms of the courts order, Mr Ss withdrawals were limited  to a weekly allowance 
of £1,000 for ordinary living expenses. And this amount was transferred from the Premier 
account to his Everyday account each week. What remained after direct  debits went out was 
for Mr S. Hes told us that some weeks he was able to withdraw  the full £1,000  but other 
weeks it was only £500 or less. This depended  on how much had gone out by direct  debit.
Mr S has said that the court gave  him £1,000 a week, not £1,000 a week  minus direct debits, 
fees and charges, which is what he was getting. So, he says that the fees and charges to be 
refunded by the bank should be paid back to him directly (or to his wife)  rather than returned 
to his bank account, which is what Barclays insists must happen.
Wrongly-taken direct debits and related overdraft charges
Barclays also deducted two direct debit payments of £18.66  and £1,061.65  from Mr Ss 
frozen Premier  account in error. The payment  of these  debits  caused  Mr Ss account  to 
become overdrawn.  And, Barclays applied daily overdraft charges. These totalled £239.00 
but Barclays has agreed to refund this amount as well as the two direct debits.
Destination of repaid  funds
Mr S is also unhappy that the bank wont return the charges that were applied  to his account 
directly back to him, or to his wifes account , rather than being returned  to his frozen 
account. Barclays have  said that because of the court order, any money returned must be 
paid back into the frozen  Premier account from which  it was taken.
Where we are now
Ref: DRN39646652In its final response letter,  Barclays said the monthly account charges on Mr Ss Premier 
account were correctly applied. Barclays said that once the Freezing Order had been 
removed it might be able to consider returning  the charges. But following our involvement, 
Barclays changed its mind. The bank agreed  to refund the monthly fees applied to Mr S's 
account between  the date the court order was applied until the fees ended in January 2017, 
as a gesture of goodwill.
They also offered to refund the two direct debits. They  also offered £50 compensation to 
Mr S for these  errors.
In his view, our investigator  decided that if the fees hadnt been taken, then Mr S would have 
been up by that amount, so hed been  deprived  of it. And he asked for the money to be 
returned to Mr S directly  rather  than to the frozen  account. Our investigator  also 
recommended that Barclays pay Mr S £500  in compensation.
Mr S, who has told us that he has suffered anxiety and severe emotional stress, depression, 
hardship and embarrassment,  says £50,000  would be fairer compensation. So, the case  has 
now come  to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  Mr Ss further 
submissions following the investigators view.
For completeness, I agree  that Barclays ought to refund the PBA charges as Mr S didnt 
benefit from using  the account. I also think the wrongly-taken  direct  debits amounts should 
be returned to him together with any associated overdraft fees as these losses  were  caused 
by Barclays mistakes.
So, the main point at issue  is whether the payment  can be returned  to Mr S himself (either 
directly or via his wifes bank account). Or, as Barclays insists, it has to be paid back  into
Mr Ss frozen bank account.
Fees and charges on which account?
Mr S has said he doesnt think it was fair that charges  came  out of his Everyday account. 
Because that account was supposed  to be available to allow him to withdraw money for day-
to-day spending. Mr S has said that imposing charges meant that there  was less money 
available to him than the court had authorised as part of his £1,000 weekly allowance.  So, 
hed have less of his allowance available to spend,  causing him financial difficulty. But Ive 
looked at the statements of Mr Ss Everyday account and I can see that it didn't have any 
account fees charged or any direct  debits taken. They were applied to his Premier account, 
so Barclays hasnt done anything wrong here.
And, as Barclays has already accepted  they were wrong to take the direct  debits and 
charges, I agree  that they should return them.
Destination of repaid  funds
Ref: DRN39646653Barclays has told us that when a court applies a Freezing Order to an account, its unable  to 
remove any features - such as those  used by PBA accounts. If a customer  asks for the 
package - and therefore the fees  to be removed from the account, the banks Court Orders 
team will keep a record  of this. Barclays also tells us that the fees themselves can only be 
fully returned once a court has discharged the Freezing Order  and informed the bank.
Ive looked through Mr Ss bank statements and Ive seen the regular weekly transfer of 
£1,000 from his Premier  into his Everyday account. Ive also seen from Barclays records 
that the Court specified eight recipients to be paid from the Premier account by direct  debit. 
These were  all utilities or significant financial or health commitments. And were all 
specifically directed by the Court to be taken  from the Premier account. Because they were  
part of what the court defined in its original Freezing Order as daily living expenses.  So, the 
withdrawal of all these  debits from Mr Ss Premier account was appropriate.
Mr S has also complained that in some weeks he was able to withdraw  the entire £1,000  but, 
other weeks, there was less money  available to him. But this is simply because  some weeks 
there were direct debits  falling due and other weeks there werent. The 2010 order states: 
All withdrawals are subject to the availability  of cleared sufficient funds . So, I think that the 
payment of the eight direct debits authorised by the court, takes  precedence. And under the 
courts terms,  Mr S is only entitled to the balance of the £1,000  each week.
As Ive said,  it appears it was always the intention of the court that these direct debits should 
be removed from that account, with the remainder available for Mr S to spend. It seems  the 
court never intended the arrangement to be £1,0000 per week  plus direct  debits. Barclays 
were simply following  the directions of the court, so I dont think they did anything wrong 
here. 
So, Mr S received his £1,000 a week allowance, less the courts specified direct  debits, 
whether the charges were  taken or not.  And so long as the £1,000 was transferred each 
week, Mr S was receiving everything he was entitled to. And, so far as I can see, this is what 
happened. He says that if these charges hadnt been deducted, they wouldve been 
withdrawn as part of his living allowance of £1,000 per week but I dont think  they made any 
difference to the amount he was able to access through his weekly allowance at all. Its true 
that the charges should never have been  taken in the first place but because  they were  
taken from the Premier  account at source and Mr S still got his £1,000 per week  (less  direct 
debits), I dont think he actually lost out in the past.  And the money will be returned to his 
Premier account, once  the account  has been unfrozen. So, Mr S wont lose access to these 
funds in the future either. So, the bank isnt doing anything  wrong  in returning the charges to 
the frozen Premier account. And as they didnt form part of either the direct debits or Mr Ss 
allowance, they must  be returned to the frozen  account.
Distress and inconvenience
After investigating  Mr Ss complaint, Barclays acknowledged and put right its mistakes.  It 
offered him £50 in compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused. Our investigator  
suggested the bank pay Mr S £500 in compensation.  But Mr S has told us that he has 
suffered anxiety and severe emotional stress, depression, hardship and embarrassment and 
has asked for £50,000.
Mr S has confirmed  that his bank  accounts  (both personal and business), have been  frozen  
since November 2010 and remain frozen. The court has ordered  Mr Ss assets to be sold. 
Ref: DRN39646654Mr S has told us that during this process, his health  and mental  condition  deteriorated. He 
told us that for the first four years  of the Freezing  Order  (2010-2014) he was not able to cope 
mentally and for five years he did not open  his post.  Hes confirmed he launched his 
complaint against  Barclays in July 2018.
Mr S lost access  to £17.50 each month  between  2010 and 2017 (and a further amount 
totalling £27.50 per month over seven  months in 2010 and 2011). So, the total amount  hes 
been deprived of since  2010  is £2,684.  (The money  taken in error by direct debit and the 
overdraft charges were  taken and then returned, so Mr S never actually lost these.)
Mr Ss anxiety  carried on for many  years,  caused by several very serious factors.  So, I dont 
accept that all his anxiety can be laid at the door of Barclays. Because  he received all the 
money he was entitled to, I dont accept hes had any actual limitation  on his access  to funds 
or any real inconvenience as a result of what Barclays has done . I understand that 
Barclayss actions may have caused Mr S concern and frustration  and contributed to his 
anxiety, inconvenience  and distress. But I think that its overwhelmingly  more likely to have 
been caused by the factors Ive listed above  rather than Barclays  withholding £2,684 over 
seven years that he wasnt entitled to spend anyway. So, I dont agree that the 
compensation of £50,000 which Mr S requests, is appropriate. For the reasons Ive given I 
think the £50 compensation Barclays has already offered is fair and reasonable. 
the response to my provisional  decision
In their response to my provisional  decision,  Barclays accepted everything except in respect 
of the destination of the £50 compensation payment. While they were happy to pay, the bank 
said that the £50 would become an asset due to Mr S so would  therefore  be caught by 
paragraph 7(2) of the Courts Freezing Order. This includes "any money  standing  to the 
credit of any bank account".  So, they said, the compensation payment cant  be paid to Mr S 
directly. It should instead be paid into the frozen account along  with the other sums. They  
also said that paying the £50 into his wife's account  instead would also be caught by 
paragraph 7(2) of the Order, or alternatively by paragraph 6. This provides that the Order  
applies to all of Mr S's assets  "whether or not they are in his own name".
Mr S also responded.  He made four points, all of which Ive considered. In particular, he said 
he was still being  charged overdraft fees arising  from the wrongly paid direct debit payments. 
He also asked whether  hed be able to receive the refunded PBA fees. And he repeated that 
the level of compensation didnt fairly reflect the anxiety hed suffered.
In response to Mr Ss first point, Barclays later clarified that all the charges applied to the 
overdraft for the unauthorised direct  debit payments had been addressed as part of this 
complaint and were  included in the amount theyd agreed to pay back.
So, now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Ref: DRN39646655Ive considered Barclays representations  and have consulted the Freezing  Order.  I agree 
with their position. The compensation payment cannot, therefore, be paid to Mr S directly, or 
to his wife, and should instead be paid into the frozen account along with the other  sums. 
In respect of Mr Ss belief  that he was still being charged overdraft fees, I put this to the bank 
and theyve clarified that he is not, as Ive set out above. In respect of the refunded  PBA 
fees, this money  will become available to Mr S when  his accounts are no longer frozen.  And, 
I have considered and addressed Mr Ss representations in terms of compensation already 
and he was able to add nothing new.
So, to summarise, in view of the response to my provisional decision, my decision remains  
the same, other than to direct that the £50 should also go into Mr Ss frozen  account. This is 
the only change.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
refund  the PBA fees (£1,295)  and Premier  bank account fees (£70)  totalling 
£1,365.00;
refund  the two direct debits (£1,061.65) and (£18.66) totalling  £1,080.31;
refund  the overdraft  fees totalling  £239.00;  and
pay compensation of £50 to a frozen account.
The refunds  should be applied to the Premier account. And as Mr S would have been 
entitled to interest  on this money had it remained in the account then Barclays  should also 
calculate interest at the appropriate rate on the amounts removed as wrongly-taken  direct  
debits and related  overdraft fees,  over the relevant period of time.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3964665