K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Close Brothers  Limited  refused  to let her reject  a car.
background
In December Mrs A acquired  a second had car with finance provided by Close Brothers  
under a conditional sale agreement. It was some  seven years old and had done 71,042  
miles and cost £5,495.  
In the first three months the car was returned to the garage four times to deal with the same  
general issue. The repairs were  carried out by a local garage under warranty,  but it told her 
the head gasket was going. After she had done  around 6,500 miles the head gasket blew.  
She says the car took 27 days to be repaired.
She complained to Close Brothers and provided the invoices for the various  repairs. It said 
that as the fault developed after she owned the car for six months the onus  was on her to 
demonstrate was present when she bought it. It noted the car had been repaired and was 
roadworthy.
Mrs A brought her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. He said he wouldnt expect a car to be 
completely free of problems, but the gasket and water pump needing to be replaced early on 
and the subsequent failure led him to conclude it was an ongoing problem. He thought Mrs A 
should be allowed  to reject the car. 
Close Brothers didnt  agree and said that despite  the thermostat housing,  a pipe under the 
housing and reservoir   cap seal being repaired within the first weeks of purchase it didnt  
mean there  was an underlying issue with the head gasket. It suggested  these components 
were generally replaced at services and they suffer normal unavoidable  deterioration.  
Unfortunately this occurred shortly  after purchase, but the car was second hand  and such 
things can happen.
It thought the later failure was unconnected with the earlier problems and Mrs A was just 
unlucky. No independent report had been  carried out and the car had since been repaired.  It 
also noted that the letter from the repairing garage said didnt say the fault had been 
developing at the point of sale and it did say that: It would be impossible  to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
Ref: DRN30843732The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have noted Close Brothers arguments  and while I have some sympathy with its positon  I 
find myself in agreement with the investigator. The repairing garage recorded that: This 
overheating fault appears to have  been  an ongoing issue  since  the customer purchased the 
vehicle could be connected to the problem with the head gasket, however as we had no 
dealing with the vehicle before October 2018,  it would be impossible to state this as a fact.
Usually independent reports  carried  out by experienced inspectors give an opinion  rather 
than state their conclusions as a fact. As such I dont set too much store by the reluctance of 
the garage to confirm  the problem had been  present at the point of sale as a fact. I am 
satisfied it believed it more likely  than not that the problem was developing at the point of 
sale.
I have taken into account that the car was relatively  old and had done a fair mileage, but I 
would expect the head gasket to have lasted longer than it did. I have seen nothing to 
suggest Mrs A did anything to cause  it to fail.
I also note that Mrs A had problem  with the car from the outset and the components which  
required repair or replacement were ones related to the final major fault. Mrs A has helpfully 
supplied extracts from her diary  which show the times the car was taken to the garage and 
the issues she had encountered. Having considered all the evidence  I think  that on the 
balance of probability the fault was present at the point of sale.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Close Brothers  Limited to:
allow Mrs A to reject the car and arrange for its collection  at no cost to her,
refund  any deposit she may have paid but not any sum used to clear equity on a 
previous car,
refund  any monthly payments or part thereof which  have been made when  the car 
was unavailable  subject to Mrs A providing  details,
remove any adverse entries it may have placed on her credit file,
pay her interest at 8% simple on any monies  refunded from the date of payment until 
the date they are repaid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Ref: DRN30843733Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3084373