K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Ms N says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy. The policy  was part of a packaged 
protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP  can be made  up 
of three  different  elements   a PPI policy, life cover and critical illness cover.  The individual  
elements of the cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes.  
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy   called Mortgage Repayment 
Cover - which covered  accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - not the life or 
critical illness cover. 
Ms N paid £13.20  per month for the PPI part of the cover.  If shed made a successful 
claim, the policy wouldve paid out the monthly  mortgage repayment for up to twelve  
months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms N says she didnt realise  she had PPI. Halifax has said the optional  nature of the 
policy wouldve been explained and it wouldve have obtained Ms Ns consent to add the 
policy. Halifax hasnt been able to provide copies of the actual  documentation  that she 
wouldve seen at the time of sale. But it has sent some of the paperwork she wouldve 
received after the sale. Where  the information is incomplete I will decide  what is most 
likely to have happened taking  into account  the evidence  I do have.
Halifax has provided me with the demands and needs statement together with other 
paperwork from just after the time of the sale. This paperwork  suggests that a discussion 
took place with Ms N, Halifax  set out the level of cover Ms N selected to meet  her needs. 
I think its likely that Ms N wouldve seen and read this. Halifax  also provided a copy of 
the welcome letter sent to Ms N after the inception of her policy. If Ms N hadnt agreed to 
the PPI I think this wouldve alerted her to it and shed  have  queried  it. I also 
acknowledge that its likely shed  have completed a separate direct debit mandate  for the 
PPI, and I dont think shed have done  this if she hadnt agreed to take it.
Halifax has provided a copy of the mortgage  illustration prepared  as a result of the initial  
mortgage meeting  with Ms N. I can see from this that Ms N was told she didnt have to 
Ref: DRN38558682take any insurance from Halifax, the only compulsory insurance being  buildings 
insurance which she could source from any provider. 
So, on balance, on the information I have, I think its more likely Ms N agreed to buy the 
policy knowing she didnt have to.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms N so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms N about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms N has said but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms N paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms N back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms N now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3855868