K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that TTR PT Limited (TTR)  mis-sold her a loan for a training course  and 
didnt treat her fairly when  she subsequently  suffered financial difficulties. 
background
In July 2018 Mrs W applied for an online training course to be financed by TTR.  It accepted 
the application and Mrs W agreed to repay  £2,395 over 36 months, by making monthly 
payments of £66.53. The first payment was due in November 2018.
TTR and Mrs W spoke  in October  2018 at which point she told of a number of reasons that 
she no longer wanted  to do the course,  one of which was that her financial situation had 
changed and she could not afford it. TTR said that Mrs W could  not cancel the loan as the 
cooling off period had ended. TTR said that Mrs W could make reduced  payments for the 
time being and invited  her to provide further details  about her finances. By January 2019 
TTR had not received  any payments from Mrs W, so it wrote  to Mrs W to say that it was 
passing her loan to its recovery  department to collect. 
Unhappy with how TTR had handled  things, Mrs W raised a complaint with it. In summary, 
she said that she was not told she would need  to repay her loan, that it was not affordable  
and that TTR should allow her to cancel the loan as she had not started  the course. 
TTR didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was satisfied  that the features of the loan had been 
explained to Mrs W and that it had judged the loan to be affordable  based  on the information 
Mrs W had given it. It also said that the loan was now outside  of the cooling off period, so 
could not be cancelled. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to our service, and an investigator upheld it. He agreed that 
the loan had not been mis-sold to Mrs W, but thought that TTR could have been more 
proactive and sympathetic in helping Mrs W in the circumstances. He concluded that 
because Mrs W had not started the course  and was experiencing financial difficulty,  in the 
particular circumstances  of this case it would be reasonable  to cancel the loan. 
TTR disagreed. It said that it thought it had treated Mrs W fairly by offering to accept a 
reduced monthly payment and attempting to talk to her about her financial circumstances. It 
argued that it had incurred significant costs in arranging the course and it wouldnt  be fair to 
expect those to be written off by cancelling the loan.
The case  was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary I said;
Ref: DRN36598982mis-sale of the loan
Our investigator concluded that TTR gave Mrs W sufficient  information to clearly  show that 
she was agreeing to sign up for a course which was to be financed by a loan and she was 
required to repay that loan on a monthly  basis. 
Ive also reviewed the communication that Mrs W had with TTR about the loan, as well as 
the information Mrs W was provided about it. During calls Mrs W had with TTR, I found it set 
out options of how Mrs W could pay for the course she wanted and one of those options was 
that she could  apply to finance  the course via a loan. I found that the terms of the loan and 
what was required of Mrs W were explained  clearly during the call. As a result,  Im satisfied 
that Mrs W ought reasonably to have been  aware of her responsibilities  under the loan and I 
dont agree that it was mis-sold on this basis. 
Mrs W also said that the loan was mis-sold because it was not affordable  at the outset. 
To establish whether or not this is the case,  I need  to determine whether TTR carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs W would be able to repay her 
loan in a sustainable way. If I find that it did not, I then need to consider whether reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have shown that she could sustainably  repay the borrowing. 
Carrying out reasonable and proportionate  checks does not look the same for every  
customer. Id have expected TTR to take into account a number of factors  including Mrs Ws 
financial circumstances, the amount  of credit, the total repayable, the duration  of the 
agreement and the size of the regular payments, in determining what a reasonable and 
proportionate check would be.
Mrs W applied  for a loan which required her to repay a total of £2,395  over 36 months, by 
making monthly repayments  of £66.53. At the point Mrs W applied for the loan, she told TTR 
that she had a monthly income of around  £2,300, and two thirds  of that was made up of 
benefit payments.  She said her outgoings  were approximately £1,300 per month.
TTR told us that it carried out a check of Mrs Ws credit file in addition to asking about her 
personal finances. It said that it would usually ask for further evidence when someone is 
judged to be high risk, or if their credit file showed  what it considered to be irregularities. In 
Mrs Ws case, it didnt judge her to be a high risk, and found  no irregularities. And I can see 
why it arrived at that conclusion; Mrs Ws credit file had seven active accounts, several of 
which were current accounts  or credit  cards and featured credit facilities which  appeared to 
have been managed efficiently. None of those accounts showed adverse information,  other  
than a telecommunications account  which showed  adverse information  a number of years  
prior to her application.  Overall, I can understand why TTR judged  Mrs W to be low risk. 
Despite this, I think that it would have been  prudent for TTR to ask Mrs W for evidence of her 
income, especially  taking  into account  that two thirds of it was made  up of benefit payments. 
Even if it had done so though, I think it likely wouldve ended up in the same position of 
offering Mrs W the loan. I say this because from what  shes said,  Mrs W accounts for her 
inability to now afford the loan due to a subsequent  reduction of her benefit entitlement, and 
the knock on effect of this. She has not suggested that the details of her income she 
provided to TTR at the outset was inaccurate. Ive seen a current account statement for one 
of Mrs Ws current  accounts,  which shows that in the month of her application  for the loan, 
the amount of benefits she was paid exceeded that which she told TTR of. 
Ref: DRN36598983Overall, even if TTR had asked Mrs W for evidence of her income, it appears that she would 
have been able to evidence the income  shed  told it about. Taking into account that Mrs W 
said she had £1,000 disposable  income per month at the point of her application, I think  it 
wouldve been fair for TTR to have judged that Mrs W could meet  the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way, and given her the loan she applied for. So, based on everything  Ive seen, I 
dont think that TTR mis-sold a loan to Mrs W because it was not affordable for her.
Should TTR allow Mrs W to cancel her loan
TTR called Mrs W in October 2018 to remind her that her loan payments would start soon 
after. I accept, as our investigator  did, that Mrs W clearly was confused  about the structure 
of the loan, as she expressed this during the call. However, as Ive explained above, having 
reviewed the calls between Mrs W and TTR at the point she applied  for the loan, as well as 
the paperwork, Im satisfied that the purpose  and structure of the loan as well as the 
requirements of Mrs W were made  clear  by TTR at the outset.
During this call, Mrs W asked TTR if it could cancel the loan, giving a number of reasons. In 
summary, she said;
-She only signed one document
-Shes now doing another course
-She has childcare responsibilities
-She learns better  in person than online
-She had not started the course;  and
-She now cannot afford the repayments
TTR said that Mrs W was not able to cancel the loan because she was outside  of the cooling 
off period. That was the case, but my decision isnt just about whether  or not TTR has 
followed the agreement  it had with Mrs W, rather,  it is based  on what  a fair and reasonable 
outcome would be in the circumstances. 
I dont think that many  of the reasons Mrs W gave for wanting to cancel  the loan are 
sufficient to require  TTR to cancel it. I say that because Im satisfied that Mrs W was given  
sufficient information  about what was required of her when she applied  for the loan, and that 
she signed the loan agreement. So, whilst  Mrs Ws circumstances may have changed, and 
that may have caused her to change  her mind about wanting to do the course, I dont think 
itd be reasonable to ask TTR to cancel Mrs Ws loan on this basis. 
I would, however, expect  TTR to have  taken Mrs Ws financial position into account in 
determining whether it would be fair to cancel the loan, taking into account  that by that point, 
she hadnt started the course.
As I understand it, Mrs W says that her monthly  disposable income was reduced  to just £90 
due to a reduction  in her benefit allowance,  which  in turn had an effect on her ability  to work 
and her childcare responsibilities.  I havent seen what  I consider strong evidence  to satisfy 
me thats  the case, but even if I accept it was, it doesnt necessarily mean that TTR should  
cancel the loan.
TTR has a responsibility to treat customers experiencing financial difficulty, positively and 
sympathetically. What constitutes positive  and sympathetic treatment can vary significantly 
from case to case, and Id expect  TTR to take Mrs Ws particular circumstances into account 
in deciding the best thing  to do. 
Ref: DRN36598984Ive seen that TTR offered  to accept reduced payments from Mrs W on a short term basis 
and subsequently attempted to engage  with her about her finances and ability to make loan 
payments. It also gave Mrs W details of organisations that could give her free advice about 
managing her finances. TTR has said that it was willing  to be flexible with Mrs W regarding 
the payments  she made, and based on the emails Ive seen it sent Mrs W trying to come to 
an amicable repayment  arrangement, Im satisfied that was the case, and that it did as much 
as Id have expected to try to help Mrs W in the circumstances.
Taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded that TTR should cancel Mrs Ws 
loan. Im also satisfied that TTR treated Mrs W fairly in light of her change in financial 
circumstances. 
Both Mrs W and TTR responded. TTR didnt have anything further to add. Mrs W did and 
she said;
-She didnt tell TTR she received £2,300  per month in benefits
-TTR did not complete a credit  check;  and
-She was bombarded  with misleading  information and pressured into doing  the 
course.
The case  has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  found cause to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mrs W told TTR she had a monthly income  of 
approximately £2,300 and two thirds  of that was made up of benefit payments. In light of 
Mrs Ws comments, I re-reviewed the call she had with TTR where she told it about her 
income and expenditure. Having done  that, Im satisfied thats what  Mrs W told TTR about 
her income. I also note that Mrs W told our investigator that was representative  of her 
income at the time and it was a subsequent  reduction in her benefit allowance  that caused a 
reduction in income.
I also revisited the bank  statements weve been  provided for one of Mrs Ws accounts. 
Overall, I think they reflect the income  that Mrs W told TTR of. Its clear that Mrs Ws income 
by way of benefit  payments varied somewhat, but Im satisfied that in the months leading  up 
to her application, her income by way of benefit payments was consistently  in the region of 
£1,500 per month. It appears that it was not until September  2018 that one particular  benefit  
payment reduced, which is in line with what Mrs W told us about a change to her benefit 
entitlement.
As my provisional decision  explained, as far as Im aware Mrs W isnt brining the complaint 
on the basis that the information she gave TTR about her income at the outset was 
inaccurate. Given that, Im satisfied that if TTR had asked Mrs W for evidence of her benefit 
entitlement and the amount she received, shed have  been able to demonstrate what she 
told it and it wouldve been  unlikely to affect  their lending decision   one which  Im satisfied 
wouldve been reasonable at the time.
Ref: DRN36598985Mrs W says that TTR didnt complete a credit  check.  However, Ive seen that it obtained a 
copy of Mrs Ws credit  file in July 2018. TTR has also given us an insight into how it 
interpreted Mrs Ws credit file. So, I think it most likely that it was taken into account in the 
lending decision TTR made.
Lastly, having revisited the calls Mrs W had with TTR about the course  and loan, I do not 
agree that TTR bombarded her with misleading information nor do I think  it pressured her 
into agreeing to a loan.  As my provisional decision found, Im satisfied that the purpose  and 
structure of the loan,  as well as the requirements  of Mrs W, were  explained  clearly  by TTR. 
Im not persuaded that TTR pressured Mrs W to take a loan.
Overall, for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision, as well as above, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs W was mis-sold a loan by TTR. Im also satisfied that TTR treated 
Mrs W fairly in response to her financial  difficulties.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2021.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3659898