K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage  that Mr and Mrs R held with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
until they sold the property in 2008. They say HSBC forced them to sell it for less than it was 
worth. They  also say they went ahead with the sale because HSBC had agreed to accept  
the sale proceeds in full and final settlement of the mortgage debt. They  say HSBC then 
went back on that agreement by pursuing  them for the shortfall.
 
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There is also a lot of duplication  and repetition of arguments. In what  follows,  I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own language and where appropriate, rounding the figures involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
Its also apparent that some of the events that led to the complaint  are matters that fall 
outside the scope of our remit; for example  the financing of Mr Rs now-dissolved limited 
company and the personal guarantee he gave for the company debt. Where  Ive mentioned  
these, its merely to provide context to the broader  picture.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs R sold their existing home, which Ill call B, and bought  a smaller, 
cheaper property, which  Ill call H, with a mortgage  from HSBC.  Theyve  told us that on the 
date of completion, HSBC  forced them to agree to a second charge over H in support of a 
personal guarantee Mr R had given the bank  for the liabilities of his limited company.
In November 2007, Mr Rs company went  into liquidation, and they decided to sell H. Theyd  
paid £575,000 for it the previous year, and say it was initially  marketed at that price. 
Unfortunately, it didnt sell and as 2008 progressed, HSBC was seeking  recovery  of the 
company debt in reliance  on Mr Rs personal  guarantee.  
In June 2008, Mr and Mrs R received an offer of £460,000 for H. HSBC  agreed to the sale 
going ahead and said it would release its charges over H on condition it received no less 
than £450,400 from the sale.  The sale went through, and the money was credited to the joint 
mortgage account on 20 August 2008. However,  it didnt clear  the mortgage debt in full; a 
shortfall of around  £5,400 was left over.
A little while  later, HSBC contacted Mr and Mrs R seeking repayment proposals  for the 
shortfall on the joint mortgage.  It also sought  repayment proposals separately from Mr R for 
the company debt under his personal  guarantee. In May 2009, Mr and Mrs R complained to 
HSBCs chief  executive. 
Ref: DRN36922562Its common ground that the complaint  was received, but no copy of the banks  response  to 
that complaint  has been traced.  Meanwhile,  HSBC took Mr R to court  over his personal 
guarantee for the company debt. The court issued a money judgement in HSBCs favour. In 
January 2010,  after what they describe as long drawn out discussions, Mr and Mrs R say 
they settled the outstanding mortgage shortfall  of just over £5,400.
Mr and Mrs R brought  the complaint to us in late 2018; initially, HSBC objected  to us looking 
into it, saying it had been brought outside  the time limits in our rules. We pointed out to 
HSBC that the original  complaint of May 2009  was made well within  the six-year limit in our 
rules for starting a complaint. Furthermore,  the absence  of a response to the 2009 complaint 
giving Mr and Mrs R referral right to this service meant  HSBC  could not rely on the provision 
in our rules that says a consumer must contact us within  six months of receiving a final 
response.
Eventually, HSBC  accepted that the complaint wasnt time-barred,  and one of our 
investigators considered  it. However,  when he did so, he wasnt persuaded it should be 
upheld. He didnt  think HSBC had forced Mr and Mrs R into selling H below what  it was 
worth; nor was he convinced it had agreed  to accept the net sale proceeds in full and final 
settlement of the joint mortgage debt.
Mr and Mrs R have asked for the compliant to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont  take either sides  
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  Im satisfied I can do 
so here on the basis of what  I have.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In asking for a review, Mr and Mrs R 
havent made any material new points or presented any material new evidence for me to 
consider. From that, Ive inferred that they want me to decide  the complaint on the basis  of 
the same  evidence that the investigator considered.  Ive done that, and I have some 
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs R; Ive reached  the same  overall conclusions as the 
investigator and for much the same  overall  reasons. 
By their own testimony, Mr and Mrs R put H up for sale because Mr Rs company had gone 
into liquidation. The period it was on the market - from November 2007 to August 2008  - was 
when what is now known  as the financial crisis had already begun to bite. The housing 
market was faltering  during that time,  so it wouldnt come  as any surprise to me if a property 
bought in 2006 for £575,000 didnt attract a buyer at or around the same price in 2008.
Ref: DRN36922563Of course its possible Mr and Mrs R felt pressured  to accept the offer of £460,000  because 
of the demand  HSBC  was making on Mr R in respect of the company debt. But as I 
explained earlier, the action to recover the company debt doesnt fall within our remit when 
considering this complaint. In any event, given  what I said in the previous paragraph about 
the housing market generally, its just as likely that Mr and Mrs R accepted  the offer of 
£460,000 because it was the best offer theyd received. Ultimately a house is only worth  
what someone is willing to pay for at any given time.
What that leaves, then is whether HSBC led Mr and Mrs R to believe that once theyd paid 
the net sale proceeds into the mortgage,  thered  be nothing more to pay. Ive looked 
carefully at everything  that was said between the parties during that period - at least, 
everything that is available. 
For me, the key piece  of evidence is an email from the bank  to Mr and Mrs Rs solicitors 
dated 27 June  2008. Mr and Mrs R have said this shows the bank agreed to accept  the net 
sale proceeds in full and final settlement of their debt.  However,  it doesnt  actually say that. 
What is does say is that HSBC will accept the payment in settlement of its charges:  
The words  full and final  dont appear  in that email, and Ive not seen anything anywhere 
else where HSBC makes such a representation. Nor does the email refer to settlement of 
debt. The reference  to its charges means  the legal charges over the property H that 
secured the debt. 
I fear Mr and Mrs R may have  inferred something beyond what HSBC actually said to them.  
Even if HSBC had led them (inadvertently or otherwise)  to believe theyd not be liable for the 
mortgage shortfall  and to be clear, I dont find that it did  Im not persuaded thats the only 
reason Mr and Mrs R accepted the offer of £460,000 to buy H. Given  the wider 
circumstances, I find it more likely than not that theyd still have gone ahead  with the sale if 
theyd been under no illusion that theyd owe a little over £5,400  on the mortgage and HSBC 
would want it repaid.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692256