K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited,  trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance,  has dealt  with his request to make reduced payments  to it 
because of his financial difficulties.
background
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance that he signed 
in December 2009 to pay for some replacement windows. He contacted  Barclays  Partner  
Finance in October 2017 because he said that he was struggling  to maintain the monthly 
repayments that were  due under  the agreement. He completed an income  and expenditure 
form in November 2017 and offered to make  reduced repayments  of £54 each month.  
Barclays Partner Finance  reviewed the information that hed provided and calculated that he 
had a disposable income of £315.20 so the monthly  payment of £172.54 due under the 
agreement was affordable for him  but it said that it would accept monthly repayments of 
£119.02. Mr S complained to Barclays Partner Finance but wasnt  satisfied with its response  
so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He believed that it 
was likely that Barclays Partner Finance had relied on the information  that Mr S had 
provided to determine  an affordable repayment. And he thought that it had treated him fairly 
by offering a lower  repayment amount and that it took steps to try to help him given the 
financial difficulties that he was experiencing.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that Barclays Partner Finances offer of £119 wasnt fair and reasonable as it left him with 
only £196 a month to live on and that it has tampered with the income and expenditure 
information that he provided.  He says that he completed the form by hand but Barclays 
Partner Finance  has destroyed  the form and altered his information by £340.86 to show that 
he could afford repayments  of £119. He says that hes been harassed for payments and not 
been treated fairly or sympathetically. He also says that interest of £12,304.80 over ten 
years on a loan of £8,400 loan isnt acceptable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr S has made other complaints about 
his loan. This complaint relates only to Barclays Partner Finances response  to his financial 
difficulties so I havent considered his comments about the amount of interest that hes 
paying.
A lender is required to respond to a customers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its required to accept a customers repayment offer,  
or to take any other particular action, as whats appropriate in each case  will depend  on the 
customers individual circumstances.
Mr S contacted Barclays Partner  Finance in October 2017 because he was struggling  to pay 
the monthly repayment of £172.54 that was due under the agreement.  It sent him an income  
and expenditure  form for him to complete. He returned the form which hed completed  by 
hand in November 2017 and offered  to make reduced repayments of £54 each month. 
Barclays Partner Finance  input the information from the form onto its system and says that 
Ref: DRN39978542the form completed by Mr S has since been  destroyed. Neither Mr S nor Barclays Partner 
Finance has been  able to provide a copy of the form that was completed  by Mr S. But Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to draw  any adverse conclusions  from 
that.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that Barclays Partner Finance used the information 
that was provided  by Mr S to complete its own income and expenditure form  a copy  of 
which its provided. But theres no way for me to know whether that information was correctly 
input by Barclays Partner Finance. 
It calculated that he had a disposable  income  of £315.20 so the monthly  repayment  of 
£172.54 was affordable  for him  but it said that it would accept reduced monthly 
repayments of £119.02.  That took account of the income and expenditure information that it 
says that Mr S had provided and left him with disposable income  of £196 each month. And I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It has also provided him with information about  organisations  that would be able to help him 
with his financial difficulties. And it says that, if his financial situation is different to the 
information on which its based its affordability calculation, he should provide it with updated 
income and expenditure information so that it can reconsider its position.  But Ive seen no 
evidence to show that hes done so. 
Barclays Partner Finance  has continued  to seek payments from Mr S and his account is in 
arrears. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence to show that it has harassed him or 
that its acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I consider that Barclays Partner Finance has responded  to Mr Ss financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically  as its required to do. And Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require it to accept  Mr Ss offer to pay it £54 each month  or to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3997854