K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a mortgage. 
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy in 1997. He paid a monthly amount  for the policy.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation as these  events happened over 21 years  ago and the policy was 
cancelled over 19 years ago.
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Halifax didnt make  Mr S aware  the PPI was 
optional. Considering how long ago the sale was in this case,  I havent  seen sufficient  
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint  on this point.  So having considered all the 
submissions I have  received in this case,  I think its more likely that Halifax wouldve made  
Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he may not 
remember that now, many years later. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr S. This meant Halifax  needed to take reasonable 
steps to find out about his needs and make sure the policy was suitable  for him. 
I think Halifaxs recommendation was right for Mr S based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Ive seen nothing  to make me think Mr S wasnt eligible  for the policy. And it doesnt 
look like he wouldve  been affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover, 
for example,  any unusual employment  terms or pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Mr S said he wouldve got modest  sick pay if he was unwell. Mr S has told us he had 
no other means he could  have relied on in that circumstance.  The PPI policy 
Ref: DRN33702512wouldve covered  Mr S for up to 12 months if he couldnt work through accident or 
sickness, or if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out in addition  to any sick pay or 
redundancy payment he mightve  got. So, considering all of this, and the potentially 
serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on his home, I think  he 
couldve found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears  to have been comparable  to other similar  policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr S.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr S, Halifax also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Halifax gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But for the 
same reasons Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
I know Mr S feels strongly and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. Its difficult to decide  a complaint when I know  so little about 
the sale. But on balance,  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think hes lost out because of 
anything Halifax mayve  done wrong  during  the sale. 
Halifax has offered to pay Mr S £50 to reflect what it considers to be poor service in how it 
handled Mr Ss complaint  and to reflect the trouble  and upset he has been put to in bringing 
this complaint. The offer seems to be a fair offer. I say this because In this case I havent 
seen sufficient evidence  that the poor service  caused trouble and upset that requires  Halifax 
to make a greater payment than the one its already offered to make. And whilst Mr S 
considers this inadequate, for the reasons given above, I feel that this is a fair offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint  about  Bank  of Scotland Plc. I 
leave it to Bank of Scotland Plc to make  the payment  of £50 to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3370251