K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined to refund  transactions  totalling more  than 
£10,000 over a period of more than two years. She says she neither made  the transactions 
herself nor allowed anyone else to do so.    
background
Ms M has explained that she had an account with HSBC  for many years. Since  about  2006 
she has been working abroad, although she still has an address in the UK and keeps a UK 
bank account.  
From around January 2017  until March 2019  Ms M says that her HSBC account was debited 
with card transactions abroad that she says she didnt make. She disputes most of the card 
payments made abroad in that period. The majority  of those were cash machine 
withdrawals, although  Ms M disputes  some retail  payments as well.
New cards were  issued  in February 2017, June 2018 and March 2019  and Ms Ms PIN was 
changed in May 2017, January 2018 and June  2018. So, the disputed  transactions  were  
the bank says  made using a number  of different cards and PINs. More recently, Ms M has 
said that shes switched  her bank account and that she has had no similar issues with her 
current provider. She suggests  that indicates  that there may be a problem with HSBCs 
systems. 
When Ms M referred  the matter to this service one of our investigators considered  it. She 
was satisfied that all the disputed transactions  had been made using  the genuine card in use 
at the time and the correct  PIN. She noted  too that, once cards were blocked,  there  were  no 
further attempts  to use them. She thought it unlikely  given what  Ms M had said about 
where she kept the cards and remembering her PINs   that someone had been able to take 
the cards  and use them without Ms Ms knowledge.
The investigator considered as well that some of the transactions had taken Ms Ms account 
overdrawn. But she explained that a payment  request  or withdrawal  would usually be treated 
as a request for an overdraft in such circumstances,  and it was for the bank to decide 
whether or not to agree  to that request. 
The investigator concluded, on balance, that it was more likely than not that Ms M authorised 
the transactions she was disputing. There was no evidence to suggest her details had been 
compromised as she had suggested. The investigator didnt recommend that HSBC refund 
the disputed transactions.  
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators findings, however, and so Ive reviewed the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
HSBC has provided  evidence which it says shows that the electronic  chip embedded in each 
of the cards  was read when each transaction  was made. Thats  a very persuasive indication  
that the genuine card was used, rather than a copy or clone of it. Whilst its relatively  easy to 
produce a cloned card by copying  information  from the magnetic  stripe on a card,  
Ref: DRN31808052producing a copy of a chip is an entirely different matter. Since the chip was read (not the 
stripe), I think  it most unlikely that cloned cards were  used here. Im satisfied too that the 
correct PIN was used  on each occasion.  
Ms M has said that she didnt make  the transactions herself and that she wasnt  in the 
locations involved at the relevant times. That may or may not be correct, but there is in my 
view clear evidence that her card was used at the cash machine or shop on each occasion. 
Since Mrs M has said she never  let anyone  else use her card,  it follows that she must have 
been with it. 
Ms M has suggested that there must have been  some kind of technical problem with HSBCs  
systems causing the disputed transactions. Whilst technical issues  can arise  with any 
computer-based system,  I think its unlikely that such a problem arose here.  If it did, it 
appears only to have affected Ms Ms account and to have continued across a number of 
different cards.  I think thats very unlikely. 
I have no reason to think that Ms M is being dishonest in saying she wasnt  responsible  for 
the transactions shes disputing, and shes no doubt  very upset by what has happened.  She 
clearly thinks shes  been treated  unfairly.  However, the evidence indicates  that the most 
likely explanation for the transactions  shes disputing  is that she made them  herself or 
allowed someone else to do so. It follows that it wouldnt  be fair to require HSBC  to refund 
them. It follows too that I dont believe HSBC should have declined transactions  that took Ms 
Ms account  overdrawn  or that increased  the overdraft.              
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything  further  to resolve  
Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Ms M to accept  or reject  my decision before  5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3180805