K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 1995 and 2003. Mrs P says Bank  of Scotland Plc ((BoS) trading as Halifax) mis-sold 
her the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs P case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mrs P says that it wasnt made clear to her that the MPPI policies were optional. BoS has 
provided paperwork from the sale that took place in 1995  I can see that the MPPI  is 
presented as an optional product  and Mrs P also completed a separate application  
from her mortgage application  for the policy. BoS hasnt  been  able to provide paperwork 
from the sale that took place  in 2003   but this isnt unusual  due to the time thats  
passed, and businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely.  But I do know that 
the sales process that was in place at the time required  BoS to present the policy  as 
optional. And I havent seen anything to suggest  that BoS did anything  different with 
Mrs P at the time.
So with this in mind, I think BoS made  it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the MPPI 
polices and that she chose to take them out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this as they were sold so long ago
BoS recommended the MPPI  policies to Mrs P so it had to check that the policies were 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that 
they were. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
policies and she seems  to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs P about the MPPI  policies wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But as I think Mrs P chose to take them  out - it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like they would have  been useful for her if something  
went wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I dont  think better information 
about the MPPI policies would have put her off taking out the cover.  
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI policies to Mrs P.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI sold in 1995 to Mrs P because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mrs P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN35176052BoS has also offered  to pay back some of the cost of the policy sold in 2003 to Mrs P  I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs P now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - including what shes said about her parents 
helping her out if needed. While I know that parents are often keen to help out when they 
can, circumstances can change  and ultimately  the mortgage repayments were Mrs Ps 
responsibility. So this point doesnt  change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mrs P any commission and profit share it got for the policy  sold in 
1995 that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium. BoS should also pay back  to Mrs P any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
BoS should pay back to Mrs P the extra she paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. BoS should also pay Mrs P 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs P can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policies  werent  mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have  to pay back  all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium for the 1995  policy. It should also pay the 
money it has offered  in relation  to the 2003 policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517605