K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls unhappy esure Insurance Limited  (esure) has declined  parts  of his claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  Hes also said it didnt  provide him with a courtesy car and hes 
unhappy with the service  hes received. 
Any reference to esure includes its agents. 
background
Mr L took out a motor  insurance policy providing comprehensive cover which started in 
October 2018. On 15 December 2018, Mr L was involved in a road traffic accident. So he 
made a claim on the insurance policy for the damage caused to his car. During the call to 
esure to report the accident, he explained another driver  had pulled out in front of him and 
stopped their car. He gave them time to move off but as they didnt, he manoeuvred to go 
around them. And as he was driving  past, the other driver side swiped his car. He explained 
this caused damage  along the side of his car  the front alloy, rear alloy,  rear passenger  
door and the front bumper.  
esure arranged  for a vehicle recovery company to pick up Mr Ls car from the safe place 
hed parked it away from the incident.  And a few days later, he called esure to let it know  the 
recovery company hadnt released the car to the appointed repair centre to start work. 
Photographs were taken of the damage  to Mr Ls car on 20 December 2018 whilst  it was 
with the appointed repair centre. And esures engineer inspected the damage to Mr Ls car 
using the photos. The following day esure explained  to Mr L it wouldnt cover the damage to 
the front of the vehicle  as the engineer thought the impact point was further back  on the 
passenger side of the car and led towards  the back  of the car. It said it didnt  think it was 
plausible that both the front and rear of the car were  damaged in the incident when there 
wasnt connecting damage along the entire passenger side.  And instead it said the front 
damage was likely caused by him hitting a kerbstone  or speed  bump.
Mr L wasnt happy with esures decision as it was based on photos  of the car rather than an 
inspection. He also said he thought the damage was either caused by the accident  or 
happened after the accident  whilst  it was in the repair  centre. And he pointed  out there had 
been damage to the rear bumper which he thought was caused by the repair centre.  
In February 2019,  esure arranged for an independent engineer  to inspect the car. The 
independent engineer concluded the outstanding damage Mr L wanted covered  was old 
outstanding damage. Mr L didnt agree with the independent engineers report. He said it 
didnt prove  the damage was pre-existing even if it wasnt related to the accident. And he 
provided photos of his car to show there was no prior damage.  
Mr L also complained  he wasnt offered a courtesy  car while his car was being repaired. 
esure offered him £250 to compensate him for this. It said it had offered him a car which hed 
declined. But it could  have made  it clearer to him that it was unlikely hed be liable for the 
cost of it. 
Ref: DRN38211572Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Overall, she thought the offer made by esure to 
cover the time Mr L was without a car was fair. And she agreed it was unlikely the damage to 
the front of the car could have happened  at the same time as the damage  down  the side and 
to the rear of the car. She also pointed out that she didnt think it was unreasonable for the 
engineer to rely on photos of the car to make their findings. And she didnt think the service 
provided by esure was poor. Mr L didnt agree with our investigators findings,  so the case  
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why. I know  Mr L will be very 
disappointed. 
outstanding damage to the car
Ive looked carefully  at everything weve been  given by both sides on this complaint. That 
includes everything Mr Ls said and the evidence hes given us. And Im not persuaded the 
outstanding damage  to the front of the car and the rear bumper  was either caused by the 
incident or by the repair centre  following the incident.
At the time of the incident, esure asked Mr L where the other vehicle had hit him. He said it 
had side swiped him all along the car  from the front to the back,  damaging the front 
bumper, alloy, rear door and rear alloy. But both the esure engineer and the independent 
engineer said the damage to the car wasnt consistent with the incident  Mr L described. 
Theyve said if things happened  as Mr L had said, theyd expect to see damage  for 
example dents or scratches starting  from the front of the car and carrying through to the rear 
of the car. And there was an area of no damage  between the front of the car and the rear of 
the car. Having thought carefully about  what Mr L and both engineers  have said, I dont think 
their findings  are unreasonable. 
Overall, I havent seen anything in this case which satisfies me as to how damage could 
have occurred to the front and rear of the car but not the area in between. 
I appreciate Mr Ls unhappy  the initial engineer  didnt inspect the car but instead relied on 
photos which had already  been taken. But I dont think thats unusual or unreasonable  in this 
case. And in any event,  the independent  engineers report made  similar findings,  after 
inspecting the vehicle  and while Mr L was present.  So I dont think this makes a difference  
in this case.  
Mr Ls given us photos of his car from before the incident.  And these dont show damage  to 
his front bumper which hes claiming  for now  for example, there dont appear  to be cracks 
down it and its not hanging  off. But most  of the photos are from around two to four months  
before the incident. There is one photo  from December  2018  so around the time of the 
incident  but this photo doesnt  show the relevant side of the car where the damage is. So I 
cant rely on these photos to say its more likely the damage wasnt  pre-existing. 
Ref: DRN38211573Mr Ls said if the damage wasnt caused  during the incident, it would have been caused  by 
the repair centre. But based on everything  Ive seen, I dont agree. As Ive said above, at the 
time of the incident, Mr L reported the damage to esure. This included the damage to the 
front of the vehicle and the damage  to the tyre which its declined  to cover. Had the repair  
centre caused this damage at a later date, Mr L wouldnt  have  been  in a position  to describe 
it to esure. I can see one element of outstanding damage  a dent to the rear bumper  
wasnt described by Mr L when he reported the incident. But a dent to the rear bumper is 
shown in the photos taken  on 20 December 2018  before  the repairs were started and shortly 
after the repair centre received the car. So I dont think its unreasonable esure has declined  
this aspect of the claim. 
courtesy car
Mr Ls complained esure didnt offer him a courtesy car whilst he was without his car. And I 
can imagine it would have  been  very difficult for him during the period he didnt have a 
vehicle to get around in. But from what Ive seen, I think  Mr L was referred  to a credit  hire 
service by esure to arrange a car as he was entitled to this under the policy.  But due to a 
misunderstanding (he thought hed be liable for the cost of it), he declined it. esure has said 
when Mr L spoke to its representative, they could have more  clearly explained to Mr L that it 
was very unlikely hed be liable for the cost of the courtesy car  unless his claim was false. 
And to make  up for this, its offered Mr L £250 as compensation. Having thought carefully  
about whats happened in this case  in particular, the reason why Mr L didnt have a 
courtesy car  I think this offer is fair. 
customer service
I understand Mr L is frustrated because  he feels  hes had to chase esure a number of times 
and initially  alerted it that his car hadnt been  transferred  from the recovery company to the 
repair centre three days after the incident. Ive looked through  all of the contact notes on 
Mr Ls account. And whilst  its not ideal  Mr L discovered the car was still with the recovery 
agent before  esure did, I can see it responded to his call quickly  and on the same day, 
arranged for the car to be dropped off at the repair centre. I can also see Mr L did have 
regular contact with esure  but I think much of this was after parts of the claim were declined 
and he didnt agree.  So overall,  Im satisfied the level of customer  service  provided by esure 
in this case was what wed expect and I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint or direct esure Insurance Limited to 
do anything more than pay the £250  in compensation that its already offered. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my 
decision before  27 September 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3821157