K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) concerns its communications with him in 
connection with a rectification scheme  it was carrying out.
background
Mr G held a number of accounts with Lloyds.  In 2018, he received a letter from Lloyds which  
told him it was going to pay him a refund, but no further information. It asked him to get in 
touch, but Mr G lives overseas so the UK phone number provided wouldnt work.  In addition, 
the address on the letter listed two different countries. One obviously wasnt correct.
Mr G was very unhappy with this poor level of service, and complained  to Lloyds. It looked  
into matters, and explained to Mr G what had happened and why. It then processed  four 
refunds for him under its rectification scheme,  and also paid him £325 in compensation for 
the mistakes it had made and the inconvenience  caused.
But Mr G didnt think this was enough. He said that even  trying to deal with his complaint had 
been difficult. He said hed received some  letters  with the wrong house number, and others  
such as the final response  letter he didnt receive at all. Hed also been told hed get a call 
back, but this didnt  happen. And had even asked a Lloyds advisor for assistance, but they 
couldnt help him.
Overall, he thought Lloyds level of service  and communications had been appalling. He was 
also concerned  about  other customers and felt it should be punished  and/or forced to 
change its processes. So he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  looked  at all the evidence, and concluded that while  Lloyds had made a 
mess of things, it had resolved Mr Gs complaint fairly in the end. So he couldnt  uphold it. 
Mr G disagreed. He felt strongly  that Lloyds treatment of him had been really poor  causing  
him a lot of worry and inconvenience. He also said given its failings with its communications 
with him, how could he be sure that its refund calculations  were even correct. 
He wanted more to be done about  his complaint. And he asked for a detailed summary from 
Lloyds of its calculations  pertaining to his refunds. 
Our Investigator  explained  that our services role isnt to punish businesses,  and that as 
were not a regulator, neither can we tell them how to run their operations. He did accept that 
Mr G had a very poor experience, but still thought that with the remedial  steps Lloyds had 
taken, and the £325 compensation,  it had already done enough to resolve his complaint.
Mr G remained  unhappy, and asked  for an ombudsmans  review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think our Investigator was right when he expressed his view that Lloyds 
has already done  enough  to resolve  this complaint.
Ref: DRN32181262I know this decision will be disappointing  for Mr G. His strength of feeling in this complaint is 
clear to see. As is the catalogue of errors from Lloyds  from sending the first letter  regarding 
the rectification  scheme, to paying the refunds, and then dealing with this complaint.
However, I do believe that its now done enough  to fairly and adequately resolve matters. 
My role is to assess the evidence, and decide  on an outcome  that I thinks  fair to both 
parties. Its clear in this case  that Mr G wants Lloyds to face some level of penalty,  but thats 
not something our service  can do. Instead, we do what we think  is right to put a customer 
back into the position they would  have been in had a financial  business not made  the 
mistake/s it did. 
Mr G also wants  to protect  other  Lloyds customers, which is commendable.  But our services  
role isnt to regulate  business. Those  are matters for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
What happened  here is that Lloyds was carrying out a late-scale rectification scheme for 
customers. In order to administrate  this, it involved a third party to deal with its administration 
of the scheme,  and this is where the problems with the letters  came in. The address was 
incorrect on three occasions; some letters werent  received; the letters themselves werent 
particularly helpful  or professional in their content; and no account  was taken for an 
overseas customer who couldnt  access the UK phone-line that was recommended. 
Then, when  Mr G queried and complained, Lloyds once again didnt shower itself in glory.  
One of its advisors  wasnt able to help him when he called, and on another occasion a 
promised call-back  didnt happen.  
I can entirely understand why Mr G might have found this whole process irritating,  confusing, 
and perhaps also worrying. It was mistake after mistake.
But I think Lloyds has already acknowledged the impact of its mistakes  on Mr G in its 
compensation payment. It paid him £325,  which is not an insignificant  amount for what  are 
communications failures. Yes, this has been a negative  experience,  but he hasnt suffered 
financial losses. And I think this is important.
Mr G remains  unhappy that Lloyds wont provide him with a detailed  breakdown  of its refund  
calculations on his accounts. He believes that if it cant be trusted  to communicate properly, 
then how can he have  confidence in its figures. 
While I can see where this argument  comes from, I dont think its fair. These refund 
calculations are entirely separate to Lloyds  communications  functions. And I see no reason 
to doubt that theyre correct. Many  other  customers also received  refunds, and it simply 
wouldnt be practicable for it to send  each of them a line-by-line  explanation,  as Mr Gs 
requested here. As our Investigator advised,  had Mr Gs accounts not fallen into the 
rectification pool, then theyd have been treated as individual accounts on their own merits, 
and he wouldnt have  received any refunds.
Im sorry  this isnt the answer Mr Gs looking for. I hope Ive explained why I think Lloyds has 
already done enough  to put things right, and why I wont be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32181263Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3218126