K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains Santander UK Plc made her liable for transactions  she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise. Shes unhappy that shes now being chased for an outstanding balance  
as a result.
background
Ms D had a student  account with Santander  and a debit card.
Ms D says someone living with her used her card whilst she was away  on holiday.  Ms D 
says she didnt discover this until she saw her statement with transactions on it she didnt 
recognise. Ms D told Santander  she hadnt authorised these transactions.  She says 
Santander told her there was nothing they could  do and that she should  report the issue to 
the authorities. Ms D says she didnt have  the energy  to take this further with Santander at 
the time and, in any event, her father agreed to help her pay off the outstanding balance.
Ms D says her father paid some of the balance off, but not all of it. She says that Santander 
chased her for the remaining balance for a while, and more recently they sold the balance to 
a third party. Ms D complained when that happened, saying shes not liable for the balance 
as its made  up of unauthorised transactions.
Santander investigated Ms Ds complaint but didnt uphold  it. They said they had 
investigated the disputed transactions at the time and they stood by their decision. Ms D 
complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ds complaint. She didnt think  Santander had acted 
unfairly. Ms D disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. So thats 
what Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transactions Ms D is disputing took place in 2012. Santander investigated them at the 
time and came to the conclusion that Ms D was liable for them.  Ms D didnt complain about 
this until 2017   shortly  after Santander sold the debt to a third party and presumably 
because that third party started  to take steps  to recover  the outstanding balance.
Unfortunately that means there isnt much evidence left about what  happened back in 2012 
 and understandably Ms D cant remember all the detail either. I have, however, seen 
Santanders investigation notes and call notes from the time and Ive taken  on board what 
Ms D has said.  
Generally, Santander  can only hold Ms D liable for the disputed  transactions  if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not that she made  or authorised them herself.  On the basis  of 
the evidence Ive seen, I accept that Ms Ds genuine  card and PIN were used to make the 
transactions she disputes. But the regulations relevant to this case say this is not, on its own,  
enough to enable Santander  to hold her liable. So I also need to think  about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Ms D consented to the transactions 
being made. 
Ref: DRN38122792From what  Ive seen, I dont think it is unreasonable for Santander  to conclude that Ms D 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions dont follow a typical pattern of fraudulent use. They are 
spread over a number  of weeks without many high value purchases. Typically a 
fraudster will want to maximise their benefit  and as quickly as possible.  
There was also a period of nine days without any fraudulent use. It would be unusual 
for a fraudster to not use a card and PIN they had access to more  frequently  than 
that. 
One of the disputed  transactions  was a cash machine withdrawal for £70 when there 
was a more than this as an available balance. I dont think its likely  here that a 
fraudster would  have  withdrawn less cash than was available. 
Several of the disputed transactions were  at merchants that Ms D had previously 
used for transactions she doesnt  dispute.  
A further  reason Im not persuaded the transactions were unauthorised is that if they were, I 
think Ms D would have disputed this with Santander in 2013  when they gave her their 
decision.
Ive considered the point Ms D makes  about losing faith in Santander and the police. But the 
evidence shows that two payments of £600  were made towards  the outstanding debt on 
Ms Ds account in January and February 2013.  I understand these were  made  by Ms Ds 
father and were motivated by a concern  about the impact of this on Ms Ds credit  rating.  I 
think its unlikely Ms D or her father  would have  paid towards a debt made up of 
unauthorised transactions, until theyd exhausted their options for disputing and appealing 
this with Santander. And because these payments were made and a complaint wasnt then 
raised until over four years later, I think this supports that its more likely than not that Ms D 
consented to the transactions.  
I can see from Santanders notes  that there was an agreement made with Ms Ds father to 
pay the full outstanding amount. But after the two initial payments these stopped.  Given this I 
dont think Santander  have acted unfairly.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3812279