K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in 2006 alongside a credit card.
background
This PPI covered Miss C if she was off work  through accident,  sickness  or if she lost her job. 
The cost of the policy was £0.79 per £100 of Miss Cs outstanding balance  on her credit  card 
and would have  covered  her for 10% of that balance for up to 12 months if she made a 
successful claim.
Miss C complained about the mis-sale of the policy to HSBC. It said it didnt agree that the 
policy had been  mis-sold  but it said it would pay back compensation to Miss C for the high 
level of commission it got from the sale of the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy had been  mis-sold and said that the compensation 
HSBC offered Miss C for the high level of commission it received  from the sale of the PPI 
was fair. Unhappy with this view, Miss C asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs case.
HSBC doesnt  have all the information  or paperwork from the time of the sale. Miss C also 
doesnt remember everything about  the sale. This is understandable and not unusual  as the 
sale happened a long time ago. And businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
But where the evidence is incomplete  I will make my decision based on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what is more likely  to have happened taking into account the evidence 
we do have; what the parties  have told us as well as what we know  about these types of 
sales.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether HSBC gave a fair choice about  buying the PPI. 
Miss C says she didnt know she had it and there was no mention of PPI when she took out 
the card. Ive thought  carefully about  what  Miss C has said but the PPI was applied to her 
account for many years. It is likely that the premiums would have appeared on her monthly 
credit card statements over that time. So if Miss C hadnt agreed to it or hadnt  wanted it she 
could have questioned it at any time. But I havent seen any evidence  that she did. And from 
what we know about these types  of sales from that time I think she would have been given a 
choice and could  have refused the PPI if she didnt want it, even if its understandable  if she 
cant remember that now after such a long time.
I will look at this matter as if HSBC recommended the PPI. This places more responsibility  
on HSBC for how it sold the PPI and it meant  HSBC  had to take reasonable steps to make  
sure the PPI was suitable for Miss C as well as giving her enough clear information  so that 
she could make an informed decision about  whether or not to take out the cover.
Ref: DRN32473682Looking at Miss Cs circumstances I think the policy  was suitable. 
I say this because  I can see Miss C was eligible for the cover  and wouldnt have  been  
affected by any of the main limitations  and exclusions we see in these policies.
Miss C says she would  have received sick pay from work of under three  months pay. This 
policy would have covered her in addition to any sick pay she got and for potentially  longer - 
up to 12 months so I still think it could have  been useful to her. And Miss C says she could 
have relied on her partner  or her parents if she fell into difficulty. But although  I can 
appreciate that her partner and parents would have wanted to help, this type of help cant  
always be guaranteed as and when Miss C would have needed it and for so long. So I still 
think Miss C could have found  the policy useful if things went wrong. 
Theres nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt give all the information  it should have done to Miss C. But this 
isnt enough to uphold this complaint. I next need  to decide whether clearer information 
would have changed her mind  about  buying the policy. I dont think it would have done. As 
Ive explained  above I think Miss C chose the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And for much the same reasons as Ive explained above  about why I think  the PPI 
was suitable I still think Miss C would have taken  out the policy even with better or clearer  
information.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because : 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Miss C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said including what she said about  not making a 
claim when  she was made redundant. But these points dont change my decision.
Miss C should contact the insurer in the first instance to see if she can make  a backdated 
claim. And if she wants to cancel the policy she should contact the business to ask to cancel 
the policy.
Ref: DRN32473683my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3247368