K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the service provided  by TSB Bank plc in relation to their 
bank accounts.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I invited both parties to let 
me have  anything in response they thought was relevant.
Mr and Mrs T confirmed  that they agreed  with my decision. TSB didnt respond with any 
comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add, Ive reached the same conclusions  as set 
out in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. So TSB Bank plc should 
pay them  £800  to compensate them for the trouble  and upset theyve  experienced, and £50 
toward their costs. TSB can however deduct  any sums already paid from this amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the service they received  from TSB Bank plc, when their accounts 
were impacted by fraudulent activity.
background
In April 2018,  TSB began having issues with its IT system. Over  the next few months, Mr and Mrs T 
had money  taken from their accounts,  and also had sums transferred between  their accounts without 
their authority.
Due to the ongoing wider issues TSB was experiencing, Mr and Mrs T had difficulty  communicating 
with TSB to resolve these  problems.  They spent time waiting on the phone and also going  into 
branch. And have had to amend their passwords, etc. on a number of occasions. Mr and Mrs T also 
Ref: DRN38999712had to make  their own transfers to return funds to the appropriate  accounts, where  money  had been 
moved without their authority. Added to this, during one of the periods of unauthorised activity, Mr and 
Mrs T were on holiday  abroad.
Although TSB refunded  the disputed transactions that left their accounts  within a few days  of the 
disputes being raised,  Mr and Mrs Ts accounts were temporarily blocked. This caused them  further 
difficulties. Mr and Mrs T also spent time checking their business accounts and worrying about their 
safety, though I havent  seen any evidence these accounts were directly  impacted.
Unsatisfied with TSBs handling of these events,  Mr and Mrs T brought  their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld, as she considered Mr and Mrs T had 
experienced significant distress and inconvenience. She thought TSB should pay Mr and Mrs T £500 
to reflect this. TSB agreed to this outcome, but Mr and Mrs T did not.
They felt they should be compensated a higher amount, and have suggested £1,500. As such  their 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
TSB hasnt disputed  any of the events above and it is clear that Mr and Mrs T have suffered as a 
result of activity  taking place on their account without their authority, and as a result of the 
communication problems TSB had during this period. So I consider  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should 
be upheld. The issue for me to determine is what level of compensation is fair and reasonable.
I have no doubt that the series of events  Mr and Mrs T experienced were hugely stressful.  Fortunately 
though, they havent suffered any long term financial issues;  all of the disputed transactions  were  
refunded by TSB. So the impact here is largely limited  to the distress and inconvenience they 
suffered.
This distress and inconvenience was undoubtedly  significant  though.  Multiple accounts  were  
impacted, and on a number of occasions. Mr and Mrs T acted proactively to resolve  many of the 
issues that arose. But they found themselves  in a situation where,  regardless of the attempts they 
made, they were seemingly  unable to protect their accounts. And I think  TSB couldve done  more to 
help them with all of this.
It is likely  that TSB wasnt able to do this due to the wider issues it was experiencing. But this does 
mean that TSB would  otherwise have been able to limit the impact Mr and Mrs T experienced.
Taking this into account, I am minded to conclude that TSB should pay Mr and Mrs T more than the 
£500 previously recommended. However, I dont think it would be reasonable to direct  them to pay 
the sum Mr and Mrs T have  asked for. I have taken into account  what  Mr and Mrs T have been  
through, but although  I feel TSB couldve done more there is no evidence that TSB was directly 
responsible for these events.
Mr and Mrs T havent  been able to quantify their phone costs. I consider it is reasonable that TSB 
make a contribution  towards  these though. And I think TSB should  pay them £50 in relation to this.
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank  plc to pay Mr and Mrs T £800 to 
compensate them for the trouble and upset theyve experienced, and £50 toward their costs.  TSB can 
deduct any sums already  paid from this amount  however.
Ref: DRN38999713Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899971