K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about damage charges applied by Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) 
Limited (trading as Audi Finance) (VWFS ) when he returned a car it supplied  under a finance 
agreement. 
background
Mr S got this car (which was new at the point of supply) near the end of 2014 with a hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA)  from VWFS. He ended the agreement  last July by way of a 
process known as voluntary termination  (or VT). VWFS had the car inspected on return  and 
asked Mr S to pay over £1,100 for damage. 
Mr S feels  these  charges  are unfair.  He says not all of the damage is present and the car 
was repaired in the past to a standard that was acceptable to his insurers  (following  a no-
fault accident)  so its unfair to find fault with those repairs now.  He doesnt think he should  
have to pay these  charges.  If he has to do so, he feels VWFS should give him any parts that 
are removed so he has the chance  to re-coup some  of his losses.   
 
VWFS agreed to reduce the charges  by over £400 (including VAT) to just over £930 
(including VAT). It considers the remaining charges are justified and Mr S should pay them.    
Our adjudicator is satisfied that Mr S is responsible  for damage, in excess of fair wear and 
tear, under the terms of the HPA. He considered  the damage reported against the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association's (BVRLA) wear and tear guidelines - as these are 
an accepted industry  benchmark for assessing  damage at the end of car finance  contracts.
He doesnt think  theres  enough evidence to show there is damage to a rear quarter panel - 
that has not been repaired  to an acceptable standard.  He recommends the associated 
charge of £138.00 should be removed.
Hes satisfied some  charges seem to be correct as 
theres evidence  of damage  to two tyres going beyond whats  acceptable under 
BVRLA guidelines which say "there must be no damage  to sidewalls or tread;  
paintwork is scratched  down to the primer on one door and BVRLA guidelines say 
"scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicle's age 
and mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing";
theres damage to a wheel and alloy trim is misshapen whereas BVRLA guidelines  
say moulding, wheel  arch trimsscuffs and scratches up to 25mm are acceptable 
provided the moulding or trim is not broken, cracked or deformed."
And he feels it is fair that Mr S should  pay for this damage. 
He says its open to VWFS to choose to auction  the car in its returned condition - it isnt 
required to carry out repairs.  Hes satisfied  the damage present would probably reduce the 
cars re-sale price and its reasonable for VWFS to be compensated for that loss. Hes not 
persuaded VWFS should be required to return damaged parts. 
VWFS agreed to waive the £138 charge - which amounts  to £165.60 (including VAT). But Mr 
S doesnt think this is a fair outcome. He says the parts hes been  charged for were in 
perfect working order. He remains of the view it is unreasonable  to apply these damage 
Ref: DRN36734672charges and he wants any parts he has to pay for to be returned to him. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ive considered the HPA. I am satisfied this says the car should be returned in good repair 
and condition commensurate with the age and mileage. And Mr S is responsible  for any 
damage that exceeds fair wear  and tear. The BVLRA has issued guidance about what  
amounts to fair wear and tear. And I think its reasonable to take that into account in this 
situation. 
Ive considered the report and photos  provided  by the third party that inspected  the car on 
behalf of VWFS when  it was returned - as well as evidence supplied by Mr S. Like our 
adjudicator, Im satisfied  theres evidence of damage that goes beyond fair wear  and tear 
under the BVRLA guidelines.  I agree with the adjudicator that there isnt enough evidence of 
damage to the rear quarter panel. And I find it fair that VWFS has agreed to remove  the 
related charge.
I think damage going beyond fair wear and tear is likely to adversely affect a cars resale 
price. But I am satisfied VWFS  wasnt obliged to carry out repairs  before any sale.  And I 
cant fairly find it must do so or return any parts to Mr S. 
In light of these  conclusions, I cant reasonably require  VWFS  to reduce the charges any 
further than our adjudicator has recommended. I think these probably reflect the loss in 
value to VWFS - as a result of the car being  returned with damage present. And it is 
reasonable for Mr S to pay for that.   
VWFS has agreed to remove charges in line with our adjudicators recommendations. I find 
this is a fair and reasonable outcome overall.  And I am not going to ask VWFS to return  
parts to Mr S or do anything further.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint, in part. I require  Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (trading as Audi Finance) to remove charges of £138 (plus  VAT) in accordance  with 
our adjudicators recommendations. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Claire Jackson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3673467