K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Ms B says Barclays  Bank  Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms B took this policy  out at the same time as applying for her credit card by post. 
Barclays has given  us a copy of the application form she completed. There was a 
separate section  with the option  to say yes or no to taking out PPI cover. Ms B 
ticked the yes box, and signed the application  form. I think the way the PPI was 
presented on the application form made it clear that she had a choice about taking 
PPI. So with what Ive seen, I think Ms B chose to take the PPI knowing she didnt 
have to. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B, which  means it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms B got the information she needed  
to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she wouldve  been affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it wouldve been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said, including what shes said about  the sick pay 
she was entitled  to. But the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months if she had been too 
ill to work,  so longer than shes told us her full sick pay would  have lasted. And it would have 
meant she didnt need  to release any of the equity in her property. Ms B has also said family  
could have helped  her out if needed, but that would depend on their own circumstances  at 
the time,  so I dont  think their help could be guaranteed. 
I understand that Ms B feels she had a secure  job, and so didnt need  the security  of a PPI 
policy. But as with any insurance, PPI is intended  to cover the unexpected. With all this in 
mind I think the PPI could  have provided her with a useful benefit, and her points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN38228742Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3822874