K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that the repairs  on her car were  not adequate.  And that her car insurer, 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited, returned her car to her despite  it not being  in 
a road worthy condition.  When  I refer to LV, that includes  any contractors or firms they 
appointed to inspect or work  on Mrs Ts car, unless otherwise stated.
background
LV repaired  Mrs Ts car, following damage  incurred during  an accident. Soon after getting 
her car back, Mrs T contacted LV and explained  that she was not happy with the repairs. 
Later that day, whilst  travelling with her children in the car, she had to pull over in an 
emergency. Upon  getting out to inspect her car, Mrs T found  one of the rear wheels in her 
words; hanging off. 
Mrs T arranged for her car to be collected  and taken to a main  dealer. They  advised the 
wheel hadnt been bolted on properly. LV carried out their own inspection and confirmed this 
was the case.  The main  dealer provided Mrs T with a courtesy car, so she declined the offer 
made by LV of a hire car. LV approved and paid for the repairs  needed to Mrs Ts car and it 
was returned to her a couple of months later. 
Mrs T raised  a complaint with LV as she was not happy that her car had been given back to 
her, when it was not roadworthy. She explained  that she wanted the individual responsible to 
be held to account and felt the situation  amounted to gross  negligence. Mrs T was also 
unhappy that whilst she was waiting for the main  dealer to repair her car, she was still 
meeting all monthly financial commitments  for it (including tax and insurance). Consequently, 
Mrs T asked  LV to reimburse her for these commitments with regards to the months she was 
without her car. 
This was discussed during a telephone conversation between the parties. LV explained why 
these particular costs  would not form part of the compensation  payment. However, Mrs T 
remembers this conversation differently and has said LV agreed to cover these monthly 
costs for the period  that her car was with the main dealer. Mrs T also explained that for the 
day she was without  a courtesy car, she incurred taxi costs  amounting  to £126.74,  and 
wanted LV to cover these costs also.  
In response to Mrs Ts complaint, LV agreed that her car shouldnt  have been returned to her 
in the condition that it was in. And confirmed they believed the problems with the repairs 
were serious. It was also explained  to Mrs T that they could not comment any further  about  
what would  happen  to the individual  who was responsible for this. They  stated that the 
monthly costs for her car wouldnt be reimbursed  as she would have made these  payments  
whether her car was being repaired  or not. LV said they would happily consider the taxi 
costs incurred, and asked Mrs T to send  copies of the receipts.  LV offered £600 for the 
trouble and upset  caused. Unhappy with this, Mrs T brought the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  explained that £600  was a reasonable offer. And explained that LV 
could not be expected to reimburse the cost of the finance agreement  Mrs T had in place for 
her car. She also explained that Mrs T would need to provide the receipts or her bank 
statements showing the taxi payments  for this to be considered. Rather than the quotes 
provided.   
Ref: DRN37282222Mrs T disagrees with the level of compensation and asked our investigator for her 
calculations demonstrating how she reached  the £600 figure. Our investigator  has further 
explained how we work out compensation. Mrs T also reiterated that LV didnt provide her 
with a like for like car after the main  dealer  explained  to her that they didnt have  a like for 
like car they could  provide her with. As Mrs T remains  unhappy  with the outcome, this has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware  that Mrs T has raised  further issues with her car with LV and they have recently 
issued their final response letter regarding those. I note one of our investigators has advised 
Mrs T that she would  need to refer that complaint to us, in order for us to be able to 
investigate it. This is correct and so I have not commented on the subsequent complaint.  
Whether LV are responsible for the repairs to Mrs Ts car is not in question.  They approved 
and paid for these  repairs  in full. I will therefore consider whether LV acted reasonably  and 
fairly when  considering how to try to put things right for Mrs T. 
Mrs T has expressed  her disappointment  in LV not providing her with a like for like car. LV 
offered to provide Mrs T with a hire car, which she declined  as the main dealer had agreed 
to give her a courtesy  car. As the specifications of the courtesy car did not match her own 
car, Mrs T spoke to LV about  this. They explained  that any car provided would be limited  to 
what her insurance policy states.  Having  looked  at Mrs Ts insurance  policy, I can see that 
she has basic hire car cover, which is limited in engine size. This is not the same  as like for 
like,  so LV were right to point this out.  
 
Mrs T has told LV that she incurred taxi costs and would like them  to reimburse  her for this. 
They have informed  her that theyd consider this once  they have received copies of the 
receipts. These havent been provided to LV. I can see that Mrs T has sent some  documents  
to us. However, I would  agree with our investigator  that these are quotes  and not receipts.   
I can see Mrs T has also provided  petty  cash vouchers to us, but these all appear to have 
been written one after the other as they are all still attached at the seam.  None of these  petty 
cash vouchers have been signed and the descriptions provided are not what  one would  
expect to see on a taxi receipt.  I therefore do not think  these are receipts from a taxi 
company. As there is no evidence to show  Mrs T took a number of taxis, it would not be fair 
or reasonable to direct LV to cover  these costs.
Mrs T has explained  that whilst she was without her car, she still had to pay for the finance, 
tax and insurance on it. She has explained that LV informed her during  a telephone 
conversation that these  costs would be reimbursed. I have listened to a recording of this call, 
and whilst Mrs T certainly raised this point  with them, LV did not agree to meeting these 
costs. This was reiterated in their complaint response letter. So I dont find that Mrs T was 
mis-advised. And in these  particular set of circumstances,  I think this decision was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs T wasnt without  a vehicle and she didnt have to make these payments as a result of 
this situation.  These payments would have  been  payable anyway and so there has been no 
financial loss. That said, I appreciate Mrs T had lost the enjoyment  of her own car. And the 
Ref: DRN37282223cars available  to her (both the courtesy  car and the hire car if it were accepted) did not 
match the specification  of her own car. This will therefore be considered  under  the amount of 
compensation offered. 
What happened  to Mrs T whilst driving  with her children shouldnt have happened  and was 
completely avoidable. It is likely that this would have had an impact  on her and the 
realisation of what could have happened has probably played on her minds. That said, I 
must be fair to both parties and it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to direct LV to compensate 
for something that could have happened.
Considering what  actually happened  Im satisfied that the £600  offered by LV is a fair and 
reasonable offer. This takes into consideration, the loss of enjoyment  of her own car for a 
couple of months.  The distress and general  inconvenience has also been taken into 
consideration. And the extremely poor service she received, with reference to her car being 
given to her when it wasnt road worthy.  
my final decision
I am aware  that Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited has made an offer to pay 
£600. I conclude  that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My final 
decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs T £600, if they 
havent done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3728222