K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about issues hes experienced with the supply and installation  of a kitchen 
financed by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF).
background
In July 2018 Mr W purchased a fitted kitchen from a third-party retailer  and entered into a 
fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. The agreement was for a term of 180 months.
Installation of the kitchen began in July 2018. Payments began in August  2018. In December 
2018 Mr W contacted  BPF to advise that remedial  work was outstanding and he was 
unhappy with damage caused  to his property. BPF opened a section  75 claim and closed 
the complaint  having paid Mr W £50 for distress  and inconvenience.
Later in December 2018 Mr W was sent a cheque by the retailer  for £488 which he says he 
assumed was for the damaged property. He says he was never told what  this refund was for 
and did not receive  any information about it.
Mr W is unhappy that the loan agreement was not adjusted to reflect  that some items were  
not installed as agreed.  It appears that the refund of £488 was for a downlighter and a 
cheaper hob and not for the damaged  property.
Mr W advised BPF that he wasnt happy  with the fact that the damaged  property wasnt 
replaced and he is paying more than he should on the finance agreement. Mr W is unhappy 
about the following issues:
he believes he was mis-sold the agreement because  it wasnt made clear that the 
payments would start before  the installation was complete  and the interest rate and 
amount of payments were  never properly set out;
he believes that the agreement was fraudulent;
he wants  interest  on the loan agreement  adjusted to reflect the refund hes received 
from the retailer;
he believes that the loan shouldve been put on hold whilst the complaint was 
ongoing and that no payments should have  been taken;
he says that BPF havent properly responded to the complaints  and have not taken 
responsibility for the poor customer  service  received by the retailer  as their agent.
BPF says that Mr W signed the agreement in July 2018 and it sent him an email  on 17 July 
2018 and a reminder text message to confirm that payments would start on 16 August as the 
kitchen had been delivered.  It didnt accept that it didnt  tell Mr W when payments were  due. 
It said that the fitter denied damaging Mr Ws property but blinds were fitted at the property 
as a gesture of goodwill.  A refund for the items not used was also provided and BPF agreed  
to rework the interest on the agreement if this amount was paid to them.
During the investigation by this service, the retailer offered again the £50 compensation in to 
reflect the delays  and poor customer service  that it had previously offered in its final 
response letter. Mr W wasnt happy with the offer. He says it doesnt address  the mis-selling  
aspect of the complaint and the damage to the property.
Ref: DRN39395122Our investigator didnt  uphold the mis-sale aspect of Mr Ws complaint. He said the terms 
and conditions of the loan agreement  stated that BPF would pay the retailer when the goods 
were delivered. He thought BPF had clearly explained when the payments would be taken 
and how much would be charged for the finance.  He didnt think there was enough to say 
that Mr W had been  mis-sold.  
The investigator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that the property had been 
damaged by the fitter and so he wasnt able to say that BPF should pay for any damage.  He 
thought that the £50 offered by BPF was enough  to compensate for the delays in the 
installation and the difficulties caused. The investigator said that BPF should  adjust the 
interest on the loan to reflect the refund given by the retailer.
BPF didnt  agree to rework the agreement unless  Mr W paid the £488.
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators view either.  He said that they had been pressurised 
into signing  the loan agreement and proceeding with the installation and fitting. He said that 
telephone calls had not been responded to and they had difficulty getting anyone to come 
and put matters right. He didnt think the offer of £50 was fair. Mr W was unhappy that his 
concerns about  the way BPF and the retailer  had handled his complaint hadnt been 
addressed. 
The matter  was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision  on 18 August 2020 
explaining why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld  and the offer to pay £50 was fair 
and reasonable.  The business  agreed with my provisional decision.  Mr W said that he would 
be responding to my PD but hasnt done  so and so I have no further  comments to consider. 
In these circumstances I can see no reason to depart from my provisional decision which is 
set out below.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W relies on the rights  he has under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  I think 
its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services  
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 
75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint,  Ive taken section 75 into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome as, for example,  a 
court might reach if Mr W pursued a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Because BPF has financed the kitchen  under a fixed sum loan agreement, its equally 
responsible with the supplier if theres  been  a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation.
The relevant  law says that goods need  to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply,  and that services need  to be performed with reasonable skill and care.  
If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract  can be said to have occurred.
A misrepresentation is where the business makes  an untrue statement of fact which  
induces a consumer to enter into the agreement.
Has there  been  a breach  of contract?
Ref: DRN39395123Ive looked at all of the available  evidence, including the emails  and photographs.  Ive had 
regard to the fact that there  were  issues with the installation.
Theres no dispute that some remedial works need  to be carried out. The information  I have 
seen from BPF suggests that this was resolved in December 2018. Mr W hasnt said that 
there is work  outstanding to complete the kitchen.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that theres  been  a breach of 
contract in relation to this aspect and the outstanding quality  issues  appear to have  been  
resolved.
There is a dispute  between the parties about  damage to property and a refund for items 
that were not provided. Mr W said that a storage box was damaged  and when other items 
were removed for installation, they were also damaged. Mr W said that he complained 
about this and it was agreed that the retailer would compensate him. In December 2018 a 
cheque for £488  was provided and Mr W said this was for the damaged  items.  He said that 
other items that were on the finance  order were not provided and the loan should be 
adjusted to reflect this.
The retailer  has denied damaging any property and has said that it provided a refund of 
£488 for a cheaper hob and a downlighter  that was not installed.
I cant be sure what happened,  but I think it is likely  that the refund was for the goods that 
were not provided  rather than for the damaged property. I think  the figure is specific and 
likely to reflect actual costs rather than an estimate of damage.  Although  Mr W says this 
was the same amount that was agreed for the damaged  property I havent seen anything  
that suggests that the retailer agreed to pay for any damage,  or an amount was ever 
agreed.
Because I think the refund was for the goods  not provided under the finance agreement, I 
cant ask BPF to re-work the interest for that amount  unless Mr W pays  it to BPF. 
Otherwise Mr W has had the benefit  of the money and the interest.  I dont agree with the 
Investigator that BPFF should re-work the agreement  to remove interest for an amount that 
has been refunded directly to Mr W. Mr W has been  given a refund to either buy the items 
elsewhere or to pay to BPF so it can be taken off the finance agreement. 
I can understand why Mr W thought the refund was for his damaged property as he 
expected the refund  to be sent by the retailer to BPF and then it would have come off the 
loan. But Ive explained why I dont think this is the case and so I cant  agree with the 
Investigator that BPF needs to re-work the interest  on this amount unless Mr W pays this 
amount to BPF.    
Has there  been  a misrepresentation?
Mr W has said that the loan was mis-sold because he was told by the retailer that it 
wouldnt receive payment  from BPF until the installation  was completed. He says the 
terms and conditions werent made clear and when he tried to withdraw from the loan 
he was threatened  with legal action.
There arent any notes of the discussions  which took place between Mr W and the retailer. 
I wasnt present so I cant be certain  of what was said.  In circumstances like these, I need 
to look at the available documents as the best evidence of what  was discussed  and 
Ref: DRN39395124agreed.
Ive looked at the loan agreement. The terms and conditions say that BPF will pay the loan 
amount to the retailer after Mr W has received the goods. I can see that Mr W has signed 
the agreement  and in doing  so has agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions. I 
would have expected Mr W to have read the agreement before signing it, so Im satisfied 
he wouldve been  aware that the retailer would receive payments as soon  as the goods 
were delivered rather than installed to his satisfaction.
I appreciate that Mr W says that he was told something different by the retailer. But I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me of that.
In relation to the interest charged on the loan, Mr W says that this wasnt  made clear. I can 
see that the agreement was signed by Mr W on 5 July 2018. The amount of interest is 
clearly set out together with the APR. As above, Im of the view that Mr W was aware (or 
ought to have been aware)  of the interest that was going to be charged  on the agreement.  
Im unable to say that BPF has done  anything wrong or acted unfairly by adding interest to 
the loan.
Mr W said that he was told he couldnt  withdraw  from the agreement. Although  Mr W could  
have withdrawn from the finance agreement if he didnt  want  to proceed,  he may well still 
have had a binding contract  with the retailer to pay for the kitchen in any event. This is 
clearly set out in the terms of the finance agreement which states, Withdrawing  from the 
loan does not cancel your purchase. I cant say that the terms of withdrawal were not made  
clear. It may be that this is a matter that Mr W needs to take up with the retailer.
I can appreciate that Mr W is frustrated that he hasnt had any paperwork  from the retailer 
about how the loan has been made  up. Again, I have  seen  a design sheet dated 18 May 
2018 prepared  by the retailer  which sets out the work to be undertaken and the contract 
price of £10,376. This is also signed  by Mr W and clearly reflects the contract  price  in the 
finance agreement. I havent seen anything that suggests that the work wasnt  done or that 
these items  werent  supplied or that there  was an arrangement to substantially change the 
price (other  than the refund given for the hob and downlighter).  So, in these circumstances I 
cant say that the agreement  was misrepresented. 
Complaint handling
Mr W has expressed concern about  the way BPF handled his Section 75 claim.  He said 
that BPF staff were rude to him and his wife and laughed at him and phone calls were not 
returned. Mr W said he was led to believe payments would stop whilst the complaint  was 
ongoing. I havent seen any evidence about what happened during phone calls or what 
Mr W was told.
Ive taken account of what  Mr W has said but I dont think BPF has dealt with his complaint 
unfairly. Based on what Ive seen, BPF has liaised with the retailer to try and find a 
resolution. I dont think BPF acted  unreasonably in closing Mr Ws Section 75 complaint 
because on the evidence available, I dont think there was enough evidence to show  that 
there had been  a breach  of contract  or a misrepresentation. I wouldnt expect a finance 
provider to suspend  a customers obligation  to make loan repayments whilst a complaint 
was ongoing.  I think that Barclays offer of £50 for the delay in dealing with matters is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN39395125my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W to accept or reject my 
decision before  5 November 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3939512