K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B arent happy  with the work Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) carried 
out when they some  plumbing repaired. Mr and Mrs B want  the work re-done. They made  
their initial claim  under  the home  emergency  section of their home insurance.
background
In mid August 2018  Mr and Mrs B noticed  a water  leak and contacted  RSA for help. RSA 
agreed to consider their claim under the home emergency part of their policy.
The next day a contractor visited and identified the problem  as a leaking shower pump. A 
new pump was ordered  and installed  and everything was fixed  and working within  a week.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with the way the new pump has been  plumbed in, because  
there were several more  connections in the pipework now than there were before. They 
thought the work was unsightly but more important,  more  likely to leak in the future.
Mr and Mrs B complained to RSA,  but it said it had carried  out the work in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy.
Mr and Mrs B then brought  their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld  as she also thought RSA had carried out the repairs as it was required to 
do.
Mr and Mrs B dont  accept this  they say the work  should have been carried out so they 
were left with the same  pipework arrangement as before.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached that conclusion.
Ive looked at the relevant  terms and conditions in Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy, although  
I havent seen  the policy  schedule, which sets out any limits that might  apply to this claim.  I 
dont think that prevents  me from reaching  a fair decision, as theres been no suggestion any 
of the limits  has affected how the claim was handled.
Under the home emergency section the policy says, in summary,  that RSA will pay the cost 
of repairs, parts, etc on a temporary or permanent basis  in order to keep Mr and Mrs Bs 
property safe and prevent further  damage.
RSA arranged for a contractor to visit Mr and Mrs B the day after they called. A new pump 
was needed  which took a couple  of days to arrive. The pump  was replaced and 
reconnected within a week  of Mr and Mrs B making the claim.
Im satisfied the repairs were carried out within a reasonable time frame.
Ref: DRN33186902RSAs obligation  is to provide a lasting repair and put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd 
been in before the pump failed. That was that they had a working  (and safely  installed)  
shower. It doesnt necessarily mean RSA had to replicate exactly  what  was there  before. Its 
often not possible  to provide exact replacements because manufacturers  change  their 
products. I understand thats what happened  here.  It appears that the new pump, although 
the same  type,  is slightly different in shape and size to the old one. That meant the pipework 
needed replacing.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B dont like the new pipework, but I havent seen anything  that 
convinces me its more  likely to fail than the old system. This service  can only look at 
complaints about  things  that have already happened.  So I cant fairly ask RSA to re-do  
something that is functioning  correctly on the basis that there  might  be problems in the 
future. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, and I make no order against Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3318690