K821x#15Complaint
Ms C complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims 
management company.
Background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2008. The policy  was taken out in 
one of the banks branches and provided Ms C with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Ms C didnt agree. 
Her representative said, on her behalf  and in summary, that:
 Her generous employment  sickness benefits meant she didnt need the PPI. 
 Her employer wouldnt  have  made  her redundant,  so she didnt need to be covered for 
unemployment.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. I said:
Ms C has told us that at the time she took out the policy she wouldve had the benefit  
of an established  no compulsory redundancy policy from her employer. Ive not been 
shown exactly what her employment terms were at that time, so I cant be sure thats 
right. But based  on what  shes told us about her job, and the information shes sent us 
about the position more  recently, I think its reasonable for me to conclude that when 
she took out the PPI Ms C  whether  rightly  or wrongly  wouldve thought it very 
unlikely that shed be made  redundant.  And Halifaxs notes say that when shed first 
taken out the mortgage only a year earlier she had declined cover  for accident, 
sickness or unemployment on the basis  that she didnt have a need for it - which  is 
consistent with that view.
Halifaxs paperwork from the time of the sale doesnt  to my mind show  that this issue  
was properly explored with her, or taken into account in its recommendation  only that 
she apparently accepted  that recommendation. Nor has Halifax  explained  why it 
apparently changed its previous advice about  her need for PPI, having initially noted in 
its demands and needs  statement the previous  year that you do not appear to have a 
need for accident, sickness & disability or involuntary unemployment cover. 
So on balance, based on what Ive been  told so far, I dont think  Ms C had a real need 
for unemployment cover - or at least she wouldnt have  felt that she did. Taking  that 
into account, as well as her good  sick pay entitlement, I dont think  Halifaxs 
recommendation was a reasonable  one. Nor do I think she wouldve wanted  to take 
the policy out if shed been given clear enough information about  it.
I thought Halifax  should put Ms C in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the 
PPI.
Following my provisional decision, Halifax made  an offer in line with what Id recommended.
Ref: DRN33420702My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs complaint.
Halifax has agreed with my provisional  decision. In the circumstances, I have nothing further 
to add to my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
Halifax should put Ms C in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax should:
Pay Ms C the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms C made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  Halifax can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  
should pay compensation to Ms C as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3342070