K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that she was given  unsuitable advice by AFH Independent Financial 
Services Limited (AFH) in 2017. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
April 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  AFH has acknowledged receipt 
of my provisional decision but hasnt provided  us with anything further. Miss C has largely  
accepted my provisional findings, but she has asked for clarification about whether I intend 
to ask AFH to pay any compensation for the trouble and upset this matter  has caused to her.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments on my findings I see no reason to alter the 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision that the complaint should be upheld.
But Miss C has asked  me to clarify whether, like our investigator, I think AFH should be 
asked to pay her some  additional compensation in respect of the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused  her. And she has made particular reference to the way in which AFH has 
handled her complaint, and that it asked  for an ombudsman to review  the matter  rather  than 
accepting our investigators findings.
First I must say that it isnt appropriate for me to comment on AFHs complaint handling 
processes. Those are a matter for its regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority. But in 
saying that I should also point out that either party to a complaint is perfectly entitled to ask 
for the matter to be decided by an ombudsman rather  than accepting  our investigators 
findings. And doing so isnt necessarily a reflection  of a desire to delay the resolution of a 
complaint as Miss C has suggested. In any dispute  both parties  with have their own view of 
the merits of the complaint and whether or not it should be upheld. Holding a different view 
to our investigator, or indeed an ombudsman, isnt something that I would consider shows  
unprofessional behaviour.
When considering  whether  compensation should  be paid for any trouble and upset,  I would 
look at the individual circumstances that led to the complaint.  Here,  although  I have 
concluded that the advice  given to Miss C was inappropriate, I dont think it has caused her 
pension savings to be poorly invested. I do however think that Miss C has paid a sum of 
money to AFH for advice  that was unnecessary.  But Miss C told AFH that she didnt intend 
to take advantage of her pension until 2030. That is still some time away, and so I dont think 
the additional fees she paid, when refunded, will have caused her to need to make  any 
significant changes  to her retirement plans. I accept that Miss C has needed to make this 
complaint, and doing so will have caused  her some  inconvenience.  But I dont think  that in 
itself, or the original  matter of her complaint,  would  lead me to conclude that AFH should pay 
additional compensation above what I set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN35679722putting things right
Miss C was charged a fee of 2% of the funds  transferred in respect  of the advice AFH gave 
to her. In total Miss C paid AFH £6,226  of which £5,578 relates to the funds that were  
transferred from Miss Cs existing SIPP.
Given that I dont think  it was appropriate to advise Miss C to transfer the funds from her 
existing SIPP, I think the fees for that part of the advice should be refunded.  I am not 
however proposing to make any award  relating to the investment performance of Miss Cs 
funds since the transfer.  I havent seen anything to persuade  me that the advice AFH gave 
to Miss C has resulted  in a loss of investment  returns on her pension savings.
To put things right AFH should;
Refund £5,578  the part of the advice fee charged to Miss C in relation to her 
existing SIPP.
Calculate any lost investment return on that sum, by determining  the investment  
return Miss C has achieved  on her pension savings from the date the fee was 
deducted to the date of my final decision.  But to be clear, no deduction should be 
made if the investment return is negative.
The refund,  plus any investment  return,  should  be paid into Miss C's SIPP  (or other pension 
plan as she directs).  The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  Compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  
with any existing protection or allowance.
If AFH is unable to pay the compensation into Miss C's SIPP, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income  
tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated  using 
Miss C's expected  marginal rate of tax in retirement  (expected  to be 20%).  
AFH should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple  per year from the date of my final decision to 
date of settlement (if compensation is not paid within  28 days  of the business  being notified 
of acceptance).
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFH deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss C how much has been taken off. AFH should give Miss C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct  AFH Independent  Financial 
Services Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Ref: DRN35679723Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35679724EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss C complains  that she was given  unsuitable advice by AFH Independent Financial  Services 
Limited (AFH) in 2017. 
background
Miss C had been a client of AFH, and its predecessor company, for a number of years. AFH provided 
Miss C with ongoing  investment advice in relation to pension savings that she held in a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP).  In 2017 Miss C also had some pension savings  in an occupational  scheme 
from her previous employment, and had just started a new role and become a member of the 
occupational scheme related  to that job.
It appears that Miss C was keen to consolidate the pension savings  held by her former occupational 
scheme with those in her SIPP. And she approached AFH for assistance in that transfer.  The advice 
AFH gave  to Miss C at that time resulted in her transferring  both the occupational  pension savings, 
and those held in her SIPP, to a new SIPP  with an alternative provider.  And AFH also agreed to 
provide Miss C with an ongoing discretionary fund management service for those  investments.
In January 2019 Miss C complained to AFH about the suitability  of the advice shed received. She 
didnt think it had been necessary for her pension  savings  to be moved  to the new SIPP  provider, and 
she said she had no need for the ongoing discretionary fund management service. AFH didnt agree  
with her complaint so she brought the matter  to this Service.
Miss Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators.  She didnt  think it had been 
necessary for Miss Cs pension  savings  to have been moved to the new SIPP. So she asked  AFH to 
pay Miss C some compensation  that would be calculated  by comparing the current  value of Miss Cs 
pension investments  with what they might have been worth if the transfer hadnt happened. Our 
adjudicator suggested using an industry benchmark to make that calculation.
AFH didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by Miss C 
and by AFH. Where the evidence is unclear,  or there are conflicts,  I have made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at what  evidence  we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what I think  is more likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN35679725When considering this complaint I think it is important to understand  what started  this advice process  
off. I have seen from emails that AFH has sent to us that Miss C appeared  to be keen to consolidate 
the pension benefits  she held with her former  occupational scheme  with those she held in her existing 
SIPP. But following that request AFH responded that it might be a good time to look at the SIPP as 
well since it had recently negotiated a new lower fee with the alternative SIPP provider.  So it seems to 
me that it was AFH that started the discussions with Miss C about  the transfer of her existing SIPP.
At the time of the transfer Miss Cs SIPP was valued at just under £280,000, and the transfer value of 
the pension savings in her former occupational scheme was just over £30,000. So the overwhelming 
majority of Miss Cs retirement  provisions were held in her existing SIPP.  Neither of her pension 
schemes offered  her any guaranteed benefits such as defined  pension amounts or guaranteed  
annuities.
The investment options  available on the occupational  scheme  were  somewhat limited. The scheme 
only offered  six funds  that could be used,  and members were only allowed to switch between those  
funds once per year. The SIPP offered a wide range of investment funds and it appears that Miss C 
was making extensive use of those choices.  AFH was providing Miss C with investment advice in 
relation to her SIPP and she was paying an ongoing fee to AFH for that service.
The suitability report that AFH completed recorded that Miss C was adamant  that she wanted to 
take a discretionary fund management service. AFH now accepts that the use of the word adamant 
doesnt fairly reflect Miss Cs wishes at the time. Miss Cs recollections are that AFH told her she had 
no choice but to take the discretionary fund management service and move her pension  savings to 
the SIPP  with the new provider.
Although I can see what was recorded in the documented advice that was given to Miss C I have no 
way of knowing what  was said to her in the meetings.  That might explain the differences  between  
what AFH has recorded  in the suitability letter, and what  Miss C now recalls.  On balance I dont  find 
either extreme particularly persuasive,  and think the reality might be somewhere more in the middle. 
For example AFH might  have explained the benefits of the discretionary fund management service to 
Miss C and that this was the way it wished to provide services to her in the future.  And given that 
Miss C accepted that advice it might be reasonable to conclude  that she had some,  however limited, 
attraction to what AFH was proposing.
But what I need to consider here is whether the advice AFH gave to Miss C was necessary  and 
suitable. And I think it is reasonable to consider each of the pension schemes  separately.
Looking first at the former  occupational  scheme. This was by far the smaller of Miss Cs pension  
investments. But I have  seen a clear indication that Miss C was keen to move  those savings from the 
scheme and combine them with her SIPP.  Although the charges Miss C was paying on those savings  
were lower than those  on her SIPP,  her investment choices were  limited.  I dont think it would  have 
been unreasonable for AFH to provide  advice that facilitated Miss Cs desire to transfer these  funds.
But I dont think the same can be said for the pension savings Miss C already held in her SIPP. Those 
funds were already  being advised upon by AFH. And the SIPP provider  offered a wide range  of 
investment funds that appeared  to meet  Miss Cs needs. I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Miss C was independently looking to utilise a discretionary fund management  service. And I also note 
that such a service would have been available through the provider of her SIPP  although  I accept 
that would have  meant her being unable  to use a discretionary service  from AFH.
Miss C agreed to pay AFH 2% of the value of any transferred funds  in respect of the advice it gave 
her, and the work it did to complete the transfers.  So the fee she would have needed  to pay if the 
SIPP hadnt been moved would have been significantly lower. And on an ongoing basis, the 
discretionary fund management service was a little more  expensive than the fees Miss C had 
previously been paying to AFH.  But I do accept that Miss C was potentially receiving an enhanced 
offering and so it might not be unreasonable for the costs to be higher.  I think  it is reasonable to 
Ref: DRN35679726consider that the discretionary fund management  service might have resulted in better investment 
returns and so mitigated at least some of the increased  costs.
On balance I dont think it is reasonable for me to conclude that the investment strategy that Miss C 
has held since the transfer has caused her detriment. On the face of it the investments in her new 
SIPP appear  to have  matched her attitude to risk and been suitable  for someone in her situation.  So 
Im not concluding here that Miss C has suffered  any loss in terms of investment performance since 
the transfer took place. Any slightly higher charges that Miss C has paid may well have been offset by 
improved investment  returns.
But I think the same investment outcomes could  reasonably have been  achieved if Miss C had been 
advised to leave her SIPP with the original provider.  It doesnt seem to me that it would have been 
likely that the costs  Miss C would incur through making that transfer would be offset  by significantly 
higher investment returns. So I havent seen anything to persuade me that the advice AFH gave to 
Miss C in relation  to the transfer  of her SIPP to the new provider was appropriate or in her best 
interests.
Ref: DRN3567972