K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F believe they were mis-sold a term life assurance policy by HSBC UK Bank  
PLC which they didnt need. Theyd  like a refund of the premiums they paid. 
background
In July 2002 Mr and Mrs F met with an HSBC advisor Mr G to take out a £57,000 to buy their 
flat under the local authority right  to buy scheme,  over a term of 20 years. At the same time 
they also took out a Mortgage  Protection  Plan with Critical Illness  Benefit for the amount they 
were borrowing,  but over 18 years. 
In 2005 HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs F to advise the policys monthly premium would be 
increasing to £81.07,  so in October  2005 Mr and Mrs F cancelled the policy,  as they found it 
too expensive.  They sold the property that year and repaid the mortgage. In 2018 Mr and 
Mrs F made a Payment Protection  Insurance (PPI) complaint to HSBC about the policy  
theyd been sold with their mortgage.  HSBC explained they didnt  have PPI but a term 
assurance policy which protected  the borrowing should one of them pass  away  or become 
seriously ill. It felt it offered competitive premiums, and while protection was recommended,  
at the time of the sale there was no requirement  to have life cover  in place and critical illness  
was also optional. So it didnt  uphold the complaint.   
Mr and Mrs F say they were told the policy was compulsory to obtain the mortgage, 
otherwise they wouldnt  have  taken  it out. As they had both had death in service  benefits 
with their employers at the time,  the policy was unnecessary. So they brought their complaint 
to this service hoping to receive a refund of the premiums they paid for the three years the 
policy was in place.  
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but didnt uphold it. Shed seen no evidence 
the policy was compulsory to obtain the mortgage. She recognised  Mr and Mrs F had 
expressed their intention to repay the mortgage within five years by selling up and 
downsizing. But overall a decreasing term assurance policy  with critical illness  cover  looked 
to have been a sensible recommendation to cover  the mortgage  should the worst have 
happened.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the investigators findings. They pointed out they were present 
at the meeting with the advisor while the investigator  was not. Their recollection is the policy  
was a condition  of the mortgage, and to say otherwise is calling them liars. And as they 
found the policy expensive from the outset, they wouldnt have taken it out if it hadnt been 
compulsory. So its come to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint..   Having done so, Im not going to uphold  
it for the same reasons  as our investigator. Let me explain why. 
When they complained,  the sale of the mortgage  and life policy  had taken place more than 
sixteen years previously.  So while Mr and Mrs F were obviously present at the meeting, it 
wouldnt be surprising if memories of exactly what was discussed have faded over time. Mr 
and Mrs F only remembered theyd had the policy when they discovered some paperwork in 
a box when they moved house. Their complaint form describes it as a PPI policy,  and their 
Ref: DRN39189692complaint letter says they understood  it protected them if they defaulted on their mortgage 
payments, rather than provided  life cover. So Ive based my decision on the information that 
was recorded  by the advisor Mr G at the meeting  in July 2002 when their options  for the 
mortgage and personal protection were  discussed,  and the recommendation letter Mr G sent 
them after the meeting. 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs F were newly married, with no children, and living  in a 
rented council property  which they had the opportunity  to purchase under the Right to Buy 
scheme. Although  the handwritten fact find document completed by Mr G is no longer 
available, HSBC has provided a system copy of the information recorded during the meeting 
on 5 July 2002. Mr and Mrs Fs intention to sell up and downsize within  five years is 
recorded. But their ages at the time,  and the 20-year term of the mortgage meant they were 
potentially borrowing into their retirement. Its recorded they wanted to keep the costs  as low 
as possible, so they chose the Homestart mortgage which  gave them two years on an 
interest-only basis before reverting  to capital repayment terms. 
Mr G discussed with Mr and Mrs F how theyd manage the mortgage if one of them passed 
away or became  too ill to work. Mr F said he had death in service benefit with his employer 
but wasnt sure how much. But he didnt have any critical illness cover.  But Mrs F was 
entitled to no benefits from her employer, not even  sick pay. And though  theyve told this 
service Mrs F had a private  life policy with another provider, in the fact find under life cover 
for Mrs F it says none and it goes on to say Customers do not have any life or critical 
illness cover  So the advisor  recommended  life cover with critical illness benefit to protect 
the mortgage should one of them pass away or become  seriously ill during the term of the 
mortgage. The amount of cover (£57,000) matches  the amount of the mortgage and would 
decrease over time, in line with the outstanding  balance. But the policy  term was reduced  
from 20 years to 18 to make it more affordable. Its recorded that Mr and Mrs F were  
comfortable with the term shortfall as they intended to repay the mortgage before then. 
Mr and Mrs F say they initially refused the policy but were told by the advisor  they needed it 
if they wanted the mortgage. The mortgage loan agreement which Mr and Mrs F signed on 
12 August 2005  makes  no reference to life cover. The fact find information sets out that the 
advisor recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs F but it was their decision to go ahead  with 
it, on an 18 year basis. If it had been  compulsory, Id have expected  HSBC  to have required 
the policy to match the term of their mortgage as well as the amount.  The document  has 
spaces for their signatures, which suggests  Mr G would have asked them  to read and sign 
the document, so they would have had the opportunity to correct any inaccuracies. 
Ive also seen a copy of a letter dated 11 July 2002  Mr G sent to Mr and Mrs F following the 
meeting. This says (in summary) that he advised  them to take out a mortgage protection 
plan with critical illness cover for a 20-year term to exactly match the mortgage, but they had 
declined this as the cost was too expensive. Instead they selected a policy with a shortfall 
in the term, and it sets out the risk Mr and Mrs F accepted by doing this. It also lists a 
number of other products which Mr G recommended,  but which Mr and Mrs F declined, and 
his suggestion  for a further review in a years time. The policy  document  includes a 
paragraph entitled Can  I change my mind? which says within seven  days of the policy 
starting, Mr and Mrs F would be sent a right to cancel  notice which they could  exercise 
within 30 days of receipt.  Ive not seen the notice  of cancellation but Ive no reason to think  it 
wasnt sent. So Ive seen nothing which shows the policy was compulsory to secure the 
mortgage, and Ive seen evidence that Mr and Mrs F were  able to decline several of Mr Gs 
recommendations. 
Ref: DRN39189693Mr and Mrs F kept up the mortgage payments  and maintained the premiums  on the policy 
until 2005. HSBC  wrote to say their premiums had been reviewed and would need to be 
increased to reflect an increase in claims.  So in October 2005 they cancelled the policy, and 
also repaid the mortgage that year. During  the time they had the policy  they thankfully had 
no need to make a claim. But had the worst  happened during that period,  the policy would 
have paid out a lump  sum sufficient to clear the outstanding balance, protecting  the surviving 
party from the stress of maintaining the mortgage  payments at a very upsetting time. And 
had Mrs F passed away it seems Mr F wouldnt have received anything from her employers,  
so may have  found himself in very difficult financial circumstances. 
So while Im sure Mr and Mrs Fs recollections  of what they were told at the meeting are 
sincere, Im afraid the available evidence doesnt support their claim that they had to take the 
policy to secure the mortgage. And I think they were told they could cancel it within  30 days  
if theyd wished. Mortgage protection with critical illness  cover  appears to have been a 
sensible recommendation for their circumstances at the time, so I cant  say it was mis-sold.
So while I appreciate they will be disappointed Im not going to uphold  their complaint and 
wont be asking HSBC  to do anything further.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3918969