K822xComplaint
Mr B complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background 
Mr B took 5 loans with Lending Stream between March 2016  and October 2016. Ive 
included some information weve received from Lending Stream in the table below.
Loan  Number Loan Amount Received  Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 25/03/2016 23/05/2016
2 £370 15/08/2016 outstanding
3 £660 28/08/2016 outstanding
4 £400 05/09/2016 outstanding
5 £70 06/10/2016 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was wrong  of Lending  Stream to have provided the first three 
loans to Mr B. But she thought loans 4 and 5 shouldnt  have been lent.
It appears Mr B accepted  our adjudicators assessment. Lending  Stream  also agreed with 
the assessment  and in line with the adjudicators  recommendation calculated  whether any 
refund of interest  would  be payable, it also said it would remove  any adverse information 
about the loans from Mr Bs credit file. 
Lending Stream said that no refund was due to Mr B because of the outstanding balance  for 
loans 2 and 3 together with the principal for loans 4 and 5, and this outstanding total 
exceeded the interest Mr B had paid towards  loans 4 and 5. Mr B disputed the calculation. 
He thought hed made  more payments towards his loans than Lending Stream had 
suggested. 
Our latest  adjudicator thought that Lending  Streams payment history mirrored  the payments 
Mr B says he has made. So, he thought the outstanding  balance  of £1,553.36 that Lending 
Stream says that Mr B now needs to pay, taking  into account its offer for loans 4 and 5, has 
been calculated  correctly. Mr B didnt accept the latest adjudicators explanation. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr B doesnt  appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Lending Stream wasnt  
wrong to lend loans  1 to 3. It seems therefore  this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer 
think that I need to make  a finding about it. And as Lending Stream  has agreed that loans 4 
and 5 shouldnt  have been lent, the issue for me to decide here is what Lending Stream  
should do to put things  right considering, for example, Mr Bs repayment history.   
Ref: DRN32168612It may help, if I begin by explaining our approach to putting things right for a consumer. If a 
business has made an error  either  because  it accepts  one has been made or we decide  
something has gone wrong   the starting  point, for this service, is that a consumer should  be 
put back into the position they wouldve been in had the error not been made. However,  that 
is not always possible especially in cases  that involve lending money. 
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as here, this service must  acknowledge  that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. So normally, wed 
expect the consumer to have  to repay  at least this sum and ask the lender to refund any 
extra that has been repaid  by a consumer, for example interest and charges. We also direct  
an additional  interest payment to the consumer to reflect the loss of use of the funds. This 
has the effect of providing the consumer  with an interest free loan. 
But sometimes, a consumer hasnt  repaid  the money theyve received by the lender. And so, 
it might  be the case that there is still an outstanding balance  to pay even when considering 
what payments they did make.  
Now turning to the specifics of this case,  as the adjudicator has explained,  because  Lending 
Stream shouldnt have  given  Mr B loans 4 and 5, he shouldnt have to repay more than the 
principal sum he borrowed (£470) or have the loan affect his credit  file in a negative way.
Lending Stream has agreed to remove any negative information from Mr Bs credit file about 
these loans  which I think is reasonable. So, the remainder of this decision will focus on 
what payments were made by Mr B towards  loans 2 to 5  all which Lending  Stream says 
havent been repaid  in order to see whether any refund  is payable  to Mr B because after all 
both parties accept loans  4 and 5 shouldnt have been lent. 
I can see that when  Mr B wasnt able to make payments Lending  Stream  appointed a third 
party to work  with him, or with the agency dealing with his debt management plan, to discuss
an affordable payment  arrangement. Lending  Stream says that the third party was handling 
all debt management plans on its behalf  but wasnt a debt collection agency. It appears 
therefore that Lending Stream  didnt  sell the debt on for collection, so it doesnt  have  to take 
Mr Bs outstanding balance back when putting things right for loans 4 and 5. 
Based on what Lending  Stream has told us, Mr B has outstanding balances  to pay on loan 2 
of £450.39 and £768.52 on loan 3. I can see from Mr Bs statement of accounts that Lending 
Stream has charged  less interest than the contractual loan agreement  for these loans. It 
appears this is because no further  interest was added from November 2016 following Mr Bs 
repayment difficulties.  I think  this was a positive  and reasonable response in the 
circumstances. But to be clear, because these loans have not been  upheld the outstanding 
balance is made  up of capital, interest  and any fees or charges. 
Taken together with the money borrowed for loans 4 and 5 (£470), Mr B therefore  still needs 
to repay  Lending  Stream  at least £1,688.91. However, Lending Stream has told us that Mr B 
made payments towards loans 4 and 5 of £115.68 which it has agreed to offset  against  his 
outstanding balance together with 8% interest  on this sum  giving a total amount to offset 
after tax on the interest  of £135.55. So, after the refund for loans 4 and 5 is applied to the 
amount due it seems  Mr B will still have an outstanding  balance  of at least  £1,553.36.
I can see that Mr B has provided  a breakdown  of the outstanding  payments that need  to be 
made from the third party appointed by Lending  Stream. This does tie in with the payment 
history that Lending Stream  has told us about as the adjudicator has suggested. But its 
Ref: DRN32168613likely this information was given to the third party by Lending Stream, so this isnt 
unexpected. 
Mr B has also given  his own breakdown of all the payments he made (for loans 1  5) to 
Lending Stream and the third party. I can see these  come to £779.01. Lending Stream has 
told us that Mr B has made payments of £777.41. So there is a difference  of £1.60.  I dont 
think I need to make  a finding on whether this additional payment was made because Ive 
not found it would be fair for Lending  Stream to include in its calculation. 
What this means is that I dont think Lending  Stream needs to refund anything to Mr B apart 
from what it has already agreed  to do. Lending Stream  has also agreed to set up an 
affordable payment arrangement for his outstanding balance of £1,553.36 which  I think is 
reasonable. But I would remind Lending  Stream  to treat Mr B fairly when discussing a way 
forward. As Ive said, Lending  Stream has also agreed to remove  any negative information 
about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Bs credit file, which also seems  fair.   
Considering everything, I dont think I can fairly ask Lending Stream  to do any more.     
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Lending  Stream is a fair resolution  to the 
complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020
  
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3216861