K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI).  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs L bought  PPI on three separate occasions: in April 2004  when she made a part 
redemption to the mortgage; in August 2004  with a further advance and again  with a further 
advance in 2006. Mrs Ls main mortgage  started  in February 2004.  She applied  for the PPI 
policies in branch.  
The policies provided cover for Mrs L for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
their exclusions  and limitations. Both 2004 policies offered to repay around £63 a month 
towards Mrs Ls mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, these cost 
a little under  £4 a month each. The 2006 policy offered to repay around £347 a month  
towards Mrs Ls mortgage balance and it cost just over £20 a month.
The policies formed part of a package  of protection, which might also have included life and 
critical illness cover. But this decision only concerns the PPI elements of cover as Ive set 
out above as this is what Mrs L has complained about.
At the time of the sales, Mrs L was employed  as an office manager. She has told us she was 
entitled to at least six months full sick pay and six months redundancy pay. She didnt have 
any other means of repaying her mortgage should  she be unable  to work. Mrs L has said 
she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2004 and Mrs L 
took out further advances in 2004  and again  in 2006. The mortgage account ended  in 2008. 
Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ls representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN31900682The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
The two sales which took place in 2004 happened  before the sale of general insurance  
products like this became  regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  
are not applicable to this part of the complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance 
(PERG). 
Mrs L arranged a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
These two sales were made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published  the GISC Code, which set out minimum 
standards of good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN31900683The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ls 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
For the 2006 sale, this happened after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this part of the complaint.
Although the non-statutory provisions as Ive set out above no longer  apply  as specific 
requirements on those  selling insurance, I consider  they still represent a helpful guide  to 
good industry practice. As a result it is appropriate  for me to take them  into account along 
with the relevant ICOB  rules and the other relevant considerations.
This sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN31900684Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The 2004 sales took place  before  insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  
so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering this part of Mrs Ls complaint. But the 2006 sale took place after 
insurance mediation became a regulated activity in January  2005,  so BoS was required to 
take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when considering  Mrs Ls complaint.   
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs L sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs L know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS no longer  has any of the paperwork from the time of the sales. And this isnt surprising  
the mortgage account has been closed for some time and businesses dont have to keep 
records indefinitely.
BoS has provided example paperwork which it says was in use at the time of Mrs Ls policy 
sales. And these show that a consumer wouldve likely understood they had a choice about 
the policy and had to consent  to take it out. Ive not been persuaded that Mrs L saw 
something different  when  she bought  her policies.
Im mindful too that for the first sale, Mrs L already  had her mortgage in place and was in fact 
paying part of the mortgage off  so there was nothing which  I consider wouldve made her 
believe that she had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs L knew  the policy was 
optional each time and she agreed to take them  out without undue  pressure. 
Ref: DRN31900685did BoS provide advice?
Mrs L says she cant  remember whether BoS advised her to take out PPI. BoS says it did 
provide advice during the sales.  Based on my understanding of how sales like Mrs Ls were 
carried out and because BoS itself says it provided  advice, Im persuaded that it provided 
advice each time.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policies were appropriate or suitable  given  her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took each time to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs L. It seems Mrs L cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policies. This is unsurprising in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about 
Mrs Ls financial circumstances  for example from the recent mortgage application for the 
first sale and the further advance applications for the subsequent sales.
But there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps  each time to establish 
whether Mrs L would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations  which 
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. For example, there is nothing to 
suggest BoS considered Mrs Ls health.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs L given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy each time.
-Mrs L had a need for the policies  it seems likely that Mrs Ls ability  to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay she says she would  have been entitled to.
-While  Mrs L took out the first policy when she repaid part of her main  mortgage, Mrs 
L has told us that it was always her intention to do this early  on into the mortgages  
life. So it seems reasonable to assume  that Mrs L either wanted to wait until this was 
carried out or she was advised  to, before taking out a policy to protect the remaining 
mortgage balance.  Mrs L was solely responsible for this and the subsequent  
advances she took out, so the policies would have helped  her manage the 
consequences if she was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mrs L.
Ref: DRN31900686-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs L. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim (in any event the 2004 policies didnt exclude existing 
medical conditions  because they were  taken out within three  months of the original 
mortgage and with extra borrowing respectively.)
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the similar and 
any gainful occupation condition  and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 24 months for each claim for the 2004 policies and 12 months for the 
later one), the policies  still provided worthwhile cover given:
Mrs Ls circumstances, including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
qualification period)  and the limits  to those provisions,  which mean the policy 
could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs L be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs L sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L was given a broad description  of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that they would  protect  her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs L would have taken  them out 
without any sense of what they were  for and of how much  the premiums  might be. Im 
mindful too that with the first sale there  was no parallel mortgage application being made, so 
the focus of the branch  meeting  wouldve  most likely been primarily if not solely about the 
PPI.
But the evidence  from the time of sales doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs L agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were suitable for Mrs L, Im not persuaded BoS did enough to present 
information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable to 
her. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mrs L all of the information she needed about them  to 
make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendations and take them out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN31900687In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mrs L? To what extent  did Mrs L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold the policies to Mrs L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs L would have 
still taken them out, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mrs L, I have found that the polices were 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly 
each time,  Mrs L would have acted  differently,  or whether she would  have taken out the 
policies in any event.
Mrs L says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN31900688The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised on each separate occasion that 
there was a suitable product she could  buy that would protect her mortgage  payments in the 
event she was unable  to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she 
concluded she wanted that product. But she made that decision based on incomplete 
information, meaning what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ls circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs L knew  she would  have to pay something 
for the policies, it doesnt appear  BoS told her the exact premium  at each point Mrs L applied 
for them. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mrs L would have been told the cost before they 
started and she paid for the policies for a number of years, so if the costs  were significantly 
at odds with her expectations  at the points  of sale, its possible she might have raised that 
with BoS at the time or reconsidered  her decision  each time.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs L would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meetings in which she agreed  to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mrs L would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ls expectations  about  
what the policies  would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought each time were the following:
The 2006 policy excluded  claims  relating  to medical conditions and/or related 
symptoms that Mrs L knew about or ought  to have known  about  at the start date of 
the policy or had seen  a doctor  about  during the 12 months before the start date  
albeit a claim could  be considered if Mrs L had been  symptom  free for 24 months 
before the claim (there was no such exclusion or limitation with the 2004 policies); 
Chronic conditions  were excluded (2006 policy);
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months for the 2004 policies and 12 
months for the 2006  policy,  rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking out the policies. 
Ref: DRN31900689But, the evidence  about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. On each occasion  Mrs L was eligible for 
its benefits and each time it provided  cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions,  
couldve proved  useful to her should the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mrs L wouldve been caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  Mrs L didnt  have any pre-existing  or chronic medical  conditions  and was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think she had some good  reasons to take the policies out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs L might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs L 
from taking out the policies,  Mrs L, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take 
them out.
If Mrs L had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view she might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ls 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
BoS may not have told Mrs L that any claim she made  would be limited to a 24-month period 
for the 2004 sales  and a 12-month period  for the 2006 sale. This may have differed from 
what she expected  and might have hoped  for. But even the 12-month period was longer than 
Mrs L would  have received full sick pay for and her redundancy entitlement was also 
significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 24 or 12 monthly  mortgage payments would have been  of benefit to her and would help 
her manage the consequences should she be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  her sick pay or redundancy money for other ongoing or essential 
household use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs L would still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable  for her, 
were sufficiently close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and provided benefits 
that would  help her manage the consequences if she was made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or sickness. In these circumstances, including  importantly the fact that 
Mrs L was solely responsible for the mortgage  on her home  where she and a financial 
dependant lived, I consider it more likely than not Mrs L would have taken out the policies in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN319006810That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs L 
found herself in as a result of the sales was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out them out had she been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
cover she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs L compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks  BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contracts, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 and in 2006 when  providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contracts  to Mrs L and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Ref: DRN319006811my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 December  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3190068