K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M was sold a PPI policy in connection  with a credit card in November  1999  during an 
online application.
The policy would have cost 59p per£100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have 
paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr M was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Ive looked at the policy document  and am satisfied  Mr M was eligible  for the PPI based on 
his age and employment at the time of the sale.
Canada Square  had to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional and needed his 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr M says he doesnt remember  being 
sold PPI.
Given what I know of the sales process, I think Canada Square would have made it clear to 
Mr M that the PPI was optional and that it was only applied to the account because  he chose 
to take it out. I say this because I have seen  screen  shots of the type of screens Mr M would 
have been presented with during the sale. The screen shots  show  that Mr M would have 
been presented  with two equally clear options  as to whether or not to take PPI. Mr M would 
not have been able to progress with the application until he had either selected the option to 
take or refuse PPI. The applications  report shows that Mr M had taken PPI.
As the application  was completed  online without any apparent  involvement  from a 
representative, I dont  think Canada Square recommended  the PPI to Mr M. This means  
they didnt have to check whether PPI was suitable  for Mr M. So for example, they didnt 
need to take into account  things like Mr Ms existing repayment provisions when selling  the 
policy. Instead it would have been for Mr M to decide whether or not the PPI would have 
been of value to him despite  his existing repayment provisions.
But Canada Square did have to provide Mr M with clear information  about  the policy so that 
he could make an informed decision about  whether or not to take it out. In particular, this 
would have been important information relating  to the costs/benefits  and main 
exclusions/restrictions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN39845902Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr M wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have  to go on and consider whether 
better information would  have  put Mr M off taking  the PPI out.
And I dont  think better information wouldve put Mr M off taking the PPI out. I say this 
because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ms employee sick pay and for a 
longer period of time. It would  also have paid out if he lost his job. The PPI was of a 
relatively low cost  in comparison to the benefit it provided.
-I understand that Mr M says he suffered from a medical condition  prior to the sale. 
However, this appears to have  been several  years before the PPI sale took place 
and Mr M did not have any ongoing issues as a result of this medical condition. 
Although his representatives have  explained  that this was a condition  likely to 
reoccur, I havent seen  any evidence that this was the case in Mr Ms particular 
circumstances. Mr M says he did not suffer from if after he had recovered from it and 
this was around 8/9 years before the sale. So I dont think  the exclusions relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions would have put Mr M off taking the PPI out all those 
years later.  And I cant see that Mr M was affected by any other exclusions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy.
-I havent seen  anything which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable to Mr M. 
-Mr M couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
So I dont  think Canada  Square mis-sold  Mr M this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Canada Square Operations  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3984590