K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Zurich Insurance  PLC misled them into believing their pipes 
were covered under their home insurance policy but when they needed  to make a claim after 
one of them burst they were told their claim  would not be met. 
background
Mr and Mrs B held home insurance with Zurich which  renewed  in September  each year. In 
February 2018, Mrs B called Zurich to ask how she could access  her policy  documents and 
there was a discussion about how the policy was paid for. Also during the call, Mrs B said 
they had recently  had a new boiler installed which was under warranty but she asked how 
she could get cover for it like emergency cover. She then said actually she meant more like 
cover for pipes because  the boiler  itself had a warranty.  She said shed checked on line and 
noted that some insurers dont cover inflow/outflow pipes etc. Zurichs adviser put Mrs B on 
hold to double  check what the policy covered. 
When she returned to the call the adviser said the policy covered pipes leaking or bursting 
as an escape  of water. Mrs B then asked what the home emergency (policy add-on) covered  
and the adviser  gave  an example of the boiler  braking down in the middle  of the night  and a 
temporary repair needing to be done. Mrs B said, as that was the case,  it seemed she didnt 
need any other cover. The call finished. 
 
Later in 2018,  Mr and Mrs B claimed  under their policy.  They were without hot water and had 
arranged for a plumber  to investigate. When a pressure  test to their system was 
unsuccessful, Mr and Mrs B registered a claim for a suspected leak.  Zurich  arranged a trace 
and access and a leaking pipe under the conservatory was discovered. Zurich  paid out over 
£5,000 for tracing and accessing  the leak and reinstatement.  But it didnt pay to replace the 
damaged pipe. Mr and Mrs B had to pay £400 themselves to fix the pipe and plumbing that 
had caused the escape of water under the conservatory. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to Zurich  that theyd been  assured that their house pipes were 
covered so they wanted it to reimburse  them for the cost fixing the damaged  pipes. 
Zurich looked  into their complaint and listened  to the call Mrs B had made  to it in February 
2018. It said that the policy didnt provide cover for damage to pipes as a standard so it was 
unable to reimburse them for the cost theyd  incurred in carrying  out the repair. But it said 
there was a lack of clarity in what  its adviser had told Mrs B during the call for which it was 
sending them a cheque  for £50 as compensation. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Zurichs investigation, Mr and Mrs B complained to this 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
She said she didnt  think  Zurich had misled Mrs B during the call as to the extent of cover  
provided by the policy and she said that she thought the claim for the damaged pipe hadnt 
been unfairly declined. She said this was because the reason  the pipe had failed was 
because of wear and tear which is one of the causes of damage  excluded from cover under 
the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with our investigators  findings so they asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN36733962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any disappointment this 
will cause Mr and Mrs B, I dont think their complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
thats caused by one of the insured events (known as perils)  listed  in the policy is covered. 
The perils  include damage caused  by fire, theft,  escape of water, flood etc. But all policies 
also contain cover exclusions.  In other  words, circumstances which  have caused damage  
which arent covered.  Exclusions common to most insurance policies include where  the 
damage has happened gradually  or is the result of wear and tear. 
Insurance policies  arent policies of property  maintenance. They are there to provide 
protection from damage that results  from the one-off unforeseen  events listed in the policy. It 
remains a home owners responsibility to maintain their home. And many parts of a home - 
including pipes and drains - will wear out over time and will require repair  or replacement.  
Thats to be expected. Here the damage  to the pipe under  the conservatory was caused by 
wear and tear. Put differently, the pipe had simply worn out and needed to be replaced.  
The damage caused by the actual escape  of water was covered because  it resulted from 
one of the events  listed  in the policy and was the result of a one-off unforeseen event. And 
the policy provides  cover  for tracing  and accessing  a leak so locating it and reinstating the 
damage caused doing so was covered too. But the damage to the pipe itself wasnt  caused 
by any of the events  listed  in the policy. They had just worn out. And such damage isnt 
covered under the policy. 
That means I think that Zurich fairly declined the part of Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the cost of 
replacing the damaged pipe itself. Because the damage was the result  of wear and tear, 
Zurich was able to apply the policy exclusion to decline this aspect of their complaint. Im 
unable to say it did so unfairly.  
Ive listened to the phone call between  Zurich and Mrs B in February 2018 and, whilst with 
the benefit of hindsight  the adviser could have provided greater clarity, I dont think Mrs B 
was misled. Mrs Bs pipes are covered  as part of the main structure of her home  and as a 
permanent fixture. So the adviser wasnt wrong to say so. But like any part of the home that 
is damaged, and any claim made, whether it is paid out will always  be considered against 
the policy terms and conditions. Which is what happened to Mr and Mrs Bs claim.  
Insurance claims are always  subject  to the policy terms and conditions (including the 
exclusions). And the wear  and tear exclusion is standard to most, if not all, home insurance 
policies. And Im not aware of any type of policy that would pay out because  of a pipe failing 
due to wear and tear. So even if I were to agree that Zurich had misled  Mr and Mrs B, I dont 
think they have  been disadvantaged as a result  of being so. Thats because Im unaware 
where they couldve insured their pipes for damage caused by wear and tear. And on 
discovering their pipes werent so covered, Mr and Mrs B have told our investigator they 
havent attempted to do so.
Whilst its adviser could have mentioned to Mrs B that all claims are subject to the applicable 
terms and conditions, I can see that Zurich paid Mr and Mrs B compensation of £50 to 
apologise for the lack of clarity in the phone  call. I think thats fair in their circumstances and 
is in line with awards made by this service in similar complaints. 
Ref: DRN36733963So Im satisfied that Zurich hasnt  acted unreasonably in declining the part of Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim in respect of the damaged  pipe. It follows that I dont think  it needs  to reimburse them  
for the cost of doing so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3673396