K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr J payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr J disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs and Mr Js comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Looking at the paperwork from the time, I think Co-op made  Mrs and Mr J aware  that the PPI 
was optional. 
Mrs and Mr J have said they did not agree to PPI and were  not aware of it being  added to 
their account. I completely  accept that they believe it was added  without their agreement in 
2004. But, as it is now over 14 years later, I dont know how much  weight I can fairly put on 
their recollections of what happened  I wouldnt necessarily expect someone to recall  in 
detail everything  that happened so many years  ago. However, I can see that Mrs and Mr J 
wrote and cancelled  their PPI in 2006. So they were aware of the PPI at that point and didnt,  
it would  seem, say that the PPI was added without their consent. So it is possible the detail 
of what happened  has since faded.  
Overall, it wouldnt be fair for me to decide Co-op added the PPI without consent, unless I 
had stronger supporting evidence. 
Co-op didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr J, as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs and Mr J to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if it had made 
a recommendation,  I think it would  probably have been an appropriate  one in their 
circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage can cause significant 
difficulties, and the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to any employer sickness and 
redundancy benefits, and possibly for longer.  It would have put off the time before they had 
to fall back on their savings. So it would have been  potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Co-op explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs would have  affected  whether 
Mrs and Mr J took the PPI.
Ref: DRN31414992Its possible Co-op didnt  clearly point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr J would have been affected  by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3141499