K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1999 alongside  a mortgage. Mr and Mrs G say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)    
mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs G say they were told they had to have the PPI in order to be approved  for the 
mortgage. YBS has given  me a number  of documents  from the time of the sale.  This 
includes a copy of the signed  mortgage  application.  In this, there was a separate section for 
PPI that said if you wish to take advantage of our [PPI]  please complete the separate 
application form. Next to this section is a handwritten no, but it isnt clear  if this indicates Mr 
and Mrs G were  rejecting the offer of PPI. But they didnt complete a separate PPI 
application form at that time. So I think its more likely they were  aware  they could continue 
with their mortgage application without  PPI. 
Two weeks later, Mr and Mrs G did complete a separate PPI application form. In this they 
requested for the PPI to cover Mr G only. They selected unemployment cover  with a 12 
month benefit period and with a monthly  benefit  amount of £500. So I think  they were aware 
they could amend the policy to suit their needs.  A mortgage offer was then sent to Mr and 
Mrs G in the post. This said youve chosen  to take out [PPI]. In my opinion, the word 
chosen suggests there was the option  to take or decline the policy.  
So, taking into consideration everything available to me, I think  YBS made it clear that
Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
Mr G. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs G got the information they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  
Mr G has said he had good  sick pay and a decreasing life assurance policy available  to him. 
But the PPI policy provided different cover, so I dont think  Mr G having  sick pay or a life 
assurance policy wouldve  affected his decision to take out the PPI. Mr G has also 
mentioned he had redundancy cover. But the policy couldve  covered the mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim. And that wouldve been in addition  to his 
redundancy pay. So I think he couldve found  it useful. It also looks  like the PPI was 
Ref: DRN39450762affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs G off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs G paid on their PPI  and whether YBS 
treated them  unfairly. 
YBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Gs PPI was less than half of what they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how YBS has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Gs commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   
so I dont think YBS treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs G 
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3945076