complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) prevaricated in telling him it was unable  to 
advise him in respect of his proposed transfer of his occupational scheme (OPS) benefits to 
a different arrangement. Mr K says this delay means that the transfer  value has substantially 
reduced and he should  be compensated for the fall in value.
 
background
The initial discussion with Lloyds on Mr K's OPS took place in April 2017. He wanted  to 
consider transferring his OPS benefits. Mr K was asked to get a transfer value from the 
scheme in order to consider the available options.
Mr K requested the transfer value but as the original request was not received, the 
transfer value was not provided until September 2017. This had a three month guarantee. 
Mr K shared the details  with the adviser. On 3 October  2017, the adviser set out the 
option s available but did not give advice.
As part of the email,  the adviser  asked a question about the lifetime  allowance. He asked Mr 
K to contact  him if he wanted  to discuss  the options  further.
Mr K contacted the trustees about the lifetime  allowance query  and responded to the email  
about the options. Mr K then called on 31 October  2017, as he wanted  to know what  was 
happening with his transfer as the deadline  was approaching.  The adviser  had resigned and 
another adviser was appointed.
The new adviser  met with Mr K. About that meeting he said:
"I met with (Mr K) on 15th Nov and at that meeting the only thing I did was explain the 4 
options that (previous adviser) had emailed  to Mr K in layman's terms. I then showed him 
on Voyant, the cash-flow  modelling  if he were  taking his (OPS) pension, highlighting  his 
income and expenditure and net worth position.  I never modelled anything other with 
respect to drawdown options etc.
When (Mr K) saw the modelling  his view was that he could afford to take the benefits from 
(OPS) as a reduced  pension and tax free cash,  using this cash to possibly invest  for more  
income if this was needed in the future, and with the forecasted  Net Worth to leave his 
famil y a legacy. At the meeting (Mr K) expressed  his concerns about  investment risk of 
having a large sum in the market should he transfer his DB scheme,  although he did also 
state that even if there wasn't growth he didn't think he would draw down all his pension in 
his lifetim e and therefore still leave a legacy. No advice was provided at the meeting and 
no recommendations were made  by me. I felt (Mr K) left with his decision being that he
would take the DB pension  income from (OPS) as it was the safest option, had no market  
risk and still left money to his family on death  and was somewhat surprised he had 
changed his mind  shortly  afterwards ."
Ref: DRN3644677K821x#15Mr K then called to say he had decided not to take his benefits  from his final salary  scheme 
but to transfer  the funds to a new arrangement.  The adviser told him that there was only a 
very short time until the deadline and Lloyds did not have an appetite for defined  benefit 
transfers. The adviser said that Mr K accepted this was the case.
The complaint  about what happened was raised in March 2018.
Lloyds did not uphold the complaint. It considered that at the initial  meeting, no commitment 
was given to provide  advice but the adviser would  seek guidance on whether this could  be 
done. When the guaranteed transfer value was received , the original adviser  who met with 
Mr K and subsequently  set out Mr Ks options in October 2017 had left Lloyds.  
The follow up meeting  with the new adviser, on 15th November 2017,  indicated taking 
benefits from the final salary scheme  was the safest  option although  I have not seen 
evidence to show this was formally recorded  for example by way of a recommendation letter.
The adjudicator concluded that given that there was only around three weeks  between  that 
meeting and Mr Ks decision to transfer and the deadline expiry,  it was unlikely the deadline  
would have been met even if the advice had been to transfer .
However,  the adjudicator  said that Lloyds  could  have  communicated  its advice  process  
more  clearly  to Mr K. Its failure  to do this caused  Mr K distress  and inconvenience  for 
which  Lloyds  should  pay Mr K £250.  
Lloyds  accepted  the adjudicators  recommendation  but Mr K disagreed  with it. He 
reiterated  that Lloyds  should  be held to account  for the difference  between  the original  
transfer  value  and that now prevailing.
As agreement  was not reached  the matter  has been  referred  to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  not available or inconclusive, I base my decision on the 
balance of probability. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
having taken account of all the circumstances and the evidence  that is available.
Lloyds has effectively acknowledged it communicated poorly with Mr K by agreeing with our 
adjudicator that it will offer Mr K £250  for its failings in this respect.  This is notwithstanding  
that this offer only came about following  our adjudicators assessment of this complaint. 
But the central matter  for me to decide  is whether or not Lloyds should  compensate  Mr K for 
the difference in the initial transfer value Mr K was offered by the trustees of his OPS  and 
what he now says is a lower transfer  value. 
Ref: DRN36446773The crux of Mr Ks complaint is, in my view, that Lloyds had a policy of not advising on any 
OPS transfers. Mr K says he should have been told this at the outset (whether in April 2017  
or on receipt  of the OPS  transfer value on 7 September 2017). That would then have given 
him time to find another adviser willing to offer advice and then complete the transfer before 
the 7th December 2017 guaranteed transfer  value expired.
I am not persuaded that Lloyds should compensate Mr K on this basis. 
The transfer value  was issued by the trustees  of Mr Ks OPS  on 7th September  2017.  The 
transfer value  was guaranteed until 7th December 2017. I think it not unreasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds would not have been in a reasonable position to consider Mr Ks 
proposed transfer  until a transfer value had been issued by the trustees of Mr Ks OPS.
Mr K acknowledged  this to be the case. In his letter of 13th May 2018 to Lloyds, Mr K said:
Before  any accurate advice  could be given,  (xxxx)  said a definite transfer value  quote was 
required for accurate  figures to be calculated, I told him  at this time, I was waiting for  BP  
pensions to send  a transfer quote..
So although  I acknowledge  that Mr K first approached Lloyds for advice in April 2017, given 
that I do not agree with Mr K that at that point or shortly thereafter,  Lloyds should have told 
him it had no appetite  for advising on any such transfers, I am not persuaded April 2017 to 
September 2017 should be regarded as a delay by Lloyds in telling Mr K that if it were to 
give advice, it would  more  likely  than not be not to transfer. It would not be fair or reasonable 
to hold it to account  for the delay  in issuing the transfer value.
That being  the case, even  if Lloyds view not to transfer had been given to Mr K more  quickly  
after the substantive meeting of 3 October  2017,  I am not persuaded that if Mr K was 
determined to effect the transfer, that he would have had sufficient time to instruct  another  
adviser, possibly on an insistent client basis, such that a transfer would have completed 
within the initial transfer value guarantee period.
I have noted that Lloyds,  in a submission to this service, said:
Generally speaking we do not offer advice on transferring DB schemes for deferred benefits  
but there are some exceptions - for example transferring in some circumstances when 
drawing benefits  immediately on retirement  or when considering some pension  sharing on 
divorce transfers. So, although this is likely  to be the outcome it is not always the case  and it 
may be that further  research is required first before we can reach a decision. So, for some 
customers their circumstances  may be such that we can tell very early in the discussion that 
we will not be providing advice but for others it will take longer to determine.
In other  words it does  not have a blanket  policy, as Mr K contends, which  excludes  advising 
on all proposed OPS transfers,  irrespective of the circumstances. If that were the case, then 
I would have expected Lloyds to have told Mr K at the outset that it was unable to assist him.
But as Lloyds explains above, there  are circumstances in which it might offer advice about a 
proposed transfer  of benefits from an OPS. 
In Mr Ks circumstances, I think it not unreasonable that Lloyds  decided  further investigation  
of the circumstances of the proposed transfer  was necessary before it could offer Mr K 
confirmation on whether  or not it could  advise him. 
Ref: DRN36446774Whilst there clearly was a delay between October 3rd 2018 and 15th November 2018, I 
understand from Lloyds  submission that it was only after the 15th November  meeting  that 
Lloyds was told by Mr K that he wanted  to proceed with the transfer. I appreciate  that Mr K 
says that throughout this period, he wanted  to transfer and that he assumed Lloyds  was 
proceeding on that basis. But I have  not seen evidence to persuade  me that Lloyds ought to 
have realised this was the case.
Mr K has not provided me with definitive evidence to support his assumption. It would not be 
fair or reasonable  for me to base my decision on assertions  that are not corroborated by 
other evidence. 
Whilst I agree with our adjudicator that Lloyds could have communicated better with Mr K, it 
was made  clear to him that any advice, were it to be offered, could only be given after a 
formal transfer value was given. I have  not seen evidence to persuade  me, as Mr K implies,  
that the transfer value was only required in order to complete  accurate calculations  to 
validate Mr Ks predisposal to transfer.
I infer from Mr Ks submissions that he has not yet transferred his OPS  benefits although I 
note Mr K says he has engaged another adviser  willing to offer him advice. If that is the 
case, then no loss has yet been  crystallised.  
But if Mr K has subsequently transferred his OPS benefits, I have not seen any evidence he 
has done so on the advice of Lloyds. It presumably has been done  under advice from a 
different adviser.  I cannot fairly or reasonably hold Lloyds to account for the crystallisation of 
any such later lower  transfer value. That is a decision the responsibility for which is Mr Ks. 
In summary,  I am not persuaded Lloyds would  not have advised Mr K on the suitability or 
otherwise) of a transfer under any circumstances. Nor am I persuaded that a formal  advice 
process was set in train by the provision of a transfer value  but I can see there was a 
misunderstanding about what Mr K expected of Lloyds. I agree with our adjudicator  that in 
these circumstances,  Lloyds should have been proactive in explaining  its approach during 
the period it was considering Mr Ks situation.
It is for that reason I agree its offer to Mr K of £250  is warranted.  It is consistent with what  I 
would have awarded had such an offer not been  made. Our awards for distress  and 
inconvenience tend to be modest. They are not intended to fine or punish firms. Those are 
matters for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint. 
Lloyds Bank  PLC must  pay Mr K £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by 
not more clearly explaining its approach in considering Mr Ks situation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3644677