K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) hadnt downgraded his fee-paying Silver 
packaged account to a fee-free account when he was told that it would be in 2016.
background
On 23 September  2016 Mr H complained  to TSB that hed been mis-sold his Silver 
packaged bank  account. TSB issued its final response on 28 September  2016 upholding his 
complaint and agreed to refund all of his account fees back plus 8% simple interest.
Mr H says that he asked  for his account to be downgraded to a fee-free account and says 
that he was shown a screen  in branch that showed that it had been downgraded. But in 
2018 he noticed that he was still being charged the monthly Silver account fee.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and ultimately concluded that Mr H most 
likely had requested  his account  to be downgraded  but for some  reason this request was not 
carried out. So he upheld  the complaint and asked TSB to pay Mr Hs account fees back 
from 28 September 2016, plus interest.
TSB disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  weighed everything up, I think  
that the complaint should be upheld.
Firstly I note that there has been  some discussion about Mr H choosing to keep his Silver 
account running because he could make  use of the mobile phone insurance  that came  with 
it. Mr H strongly  denies this discussion took place and says that he already had his own 
cover in place. But from the notes that TSB has provided, it looks  like this discussion (if it did 
take place) happened in April 2016  and not in September 2016, when Mr H says that he 
requested his account be downgraded. 
I dont think what mayve  been discussed with Mr H earlier  on in 2016 about  mobile  phone  
insurance is necessarily relevant to what happened  when Mr H contacted TSB in September 
2016. So I have  focused my attention  on what happened (or was likely to have  happened  
given the available evidence)  in September 2016.
TSB has referred to a customer note it has on file which  suggests  that Mr H mightve been 
told that his account would  be downgraded. This note says:
 had previously requested to add control on account, received TMS stating that the 
account would have to be downgraded to classic fron silver to add control.i have called the 
cust to confirm this would be ok. The customer has confirmed this would be ok along as his 
complaint for AVA is not effected
TSB says that the member of staff wouldve needed to contact the customer relations 
department before downgrading the account, because of the outstanding complaint.  And it 
says that there is no record of customer relations  being contacted on that day from 
elsewhere within TSB about Mr Hs account. 
Ref: DRN31933232Its not clear why the customer  relations  department was not contacted  or why Mr Hs 
account wasnt downgraded. But what I think is clear is that the customer  note and Mr Hs 
recollections both indicate  that Mr H was given the impression that his account would be 
downgraded, but for whatever reason, it wasnt.
TSBs final response letter (which said that Mr H would  have  to contact TSB to downgrade 
his account) was issued  on 28 September 2016  - which was the same day as the customer 
note. It therefore says that the final response  letter supersedes what mayve  been discussed 
with its member of staff. 
However I disagree with TSBs position on this. Mr H had already discussed  downgrading 
his account, and was clearly  under  the impression that it would be downgraded. So I dont 
think it would  be unreasonable if he disregarded  what the letter said about contacting TSB to 
downgrade his account thinking, given that hed already  done  so (and it appears he was led 
to believe it would be downgraded) on the same date the letter was sent to him.
TSB says that it also sent Mr H annual eligibility  letters which  wouldve made it clear to Mr H 
that his account  was still registered as a Silver account. But as Mr H already thought  that it 
had been downgraded I can understand if he either  didnt read or pay much  attention  to 
them or perhaps disregarded them as no longer  being relevant to him. Either way, Mr H has 
continued to have been charged monthly account  fees on a packaged account, which TSB 
has already conceded should  never  have sold to him in the first place. 
So overall, Im persuaded that Mr H had agreed  for his account to be downgraded and was 
led to believe that it had been in September 2016, when in actual fact it hadnt  been. And 
Mr H has lost out because  of this.
putting matters right
To put matters right, I require TSB to refund  all of the Silver account fees Mr H paid from 28 
September 2016 until it was downgraded. TSB should also pay Mr H 8% simple interest on 
those fees, calculated from the date he paid them to the date of settlement, less tax.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires TSB to take off tax from this interest.  TSB must give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  TSB Bank  plc to do 
what I have set out above to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3193323