K820x#14complaint
Mrs U says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs U applied for a credit  card in a branch of Halifax in 2004.  The PPI was added to the 
credit card at the same time and covered her repayments if she couldnt  work due to 
disability or unemployment. It also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mrs U disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Us complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mrs U that the PPI was optional and got her agreement  
before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said in the meeting,  Ive looked closely at all 
of the information I have  about this sale, including what  Mrs Us said about  not being  made  
aware the PPI was optional.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Mrs U signed and dated. It included  
a clear and prominent  box to mark if she wanted  PPI and a separate box next to it for 
another insurance product  it was selling. Theres a printed cross in the PPI box, but not in 
the other box. I think the application, together with experience of how Halifax sold PPI at the 
time, suggest there was a discussion between Mrs U and the adviser  about  insurance. And 
that she chose  to take PPI, knowing she didnt have to.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs U. This means it had to look into whether PPI 
was right for her. I dont  know if it did that. But, from what Halifax  has sent me and what  
Mrs Us told me about her circumstances at the time of the sale,  I think  the PPI was right for 
her in any case because:
She was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think she was affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
She thinks she was entitled  to full sick pay from her employer for up to six months. 
But the PPIs disability benefits would  have paid out on top of that, and for longer at 
up to 12 months per claim. The PPI covered her for unemployment too. Overall, I 
think the PPI would have been  of use to her. 
Theres nothing to suggest Mrs U couldnt  afford the PPI. And, if she no longer 
wanted it, the PPI was flexible  enough  that she could  have  cancelled  it at no extra  
cost.
Ref: DRN35281542Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mrs U enough about the PPI for her to make up her own 
mind about  whether it was right for her. And it had to do this in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Mrs U or how well 
it was explained.  But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for her, I dont think  
better information would  have  made a difference to her decision to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs U paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs U back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs U now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3528154