K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although Marks & Spencer sold the PPI to Mrs D, the insurers,  Allianz Insurance Plc 
(Allianz) have accepted responsibility for the sale. So Ill just refer to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mrs D bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as she applied for an M&S card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs D says that at no point was the optionality of the policy made  clear.  Both Allianz and 
Mrs D have given me a copy of the signed application form. On it, I can see a box has been  
ticked to select PPI. And Mrs Ds name  and date of birth have been handwritten next to 
where it says the full name of insured person. 
So, I think Allianz made Mrs D aware that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But they did have  to give Mrs D enough information  so she could decide whether the policy 
was suitable for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Mrs D has told us about  her circumstances, it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to her. This includes what she says about her employer benefits and 
savings at the time. 
So weighing everything up, I think the PPI couldve been helpful for Mrs D. And even  if she 
wasnt fully aware of its cost and main features, I think shed probably have seen the policy  
as good value for her. If she didnt use the card a lot, the PPI wouldnt cost her very much. If 
she did, it would give her potentially useful benefits
I dont think its likely  that Mrs D was affected  by any of the main  things the policy didnt 
cover like medical conditions. So, based  on what I know, I dont think  better information 
wouldve stopped  Mrs D buying PPI.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN31974002my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3197400