K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited  (trading as Direct Line Car Insurance)  didnt  
agree to provide him with a like for like vehicle while his car was being  repaired.
All references to Direct Line include its agents.
background
Direct Line arranged for Mr Ps car to be repaired, following an accident.  Direct Line agreed 
that the repairs werent carried out to a satisfactory  standard. So it arranged  for Mr Ps car to 
be taken in to sort things  out.
Mr P asked to be provided with an electric car while the repairs  were taking place because  
his damaged car was electric. Direct Line said it wasnt able to provide an electric car. Mr P 
agreed to another hire vehicle,  but when the garage came to collect  his car, no courtesy car 
was provided. The repair was re-booked for a few days later but the hire car wasnt dropped  
off at Mr Ps home. Mr P decided to go without  the hire car and let the garage  take his car to 
put things right. He told Direct  Line that hed had to rearrange and cancel meetings for work 
because he was left without a car.
When the car was returned to him, Mr P found  that the repairs  still hadnt been adequately 
completed. Direct Line agreed that the car needed to be taken back in to the garage. It 
apologised for the issues  with the repairs and for the failure of the car hire reservation. It said 
it wasnt able to provide  Mr P with an electric car while the repairs took place because  the 
car hire company it used didnt have any. It had some hybrid cars but these werent  always 
available. Direct Line offered to provide a premier  car while  Mr Ps car was being repaired. 
And it offered Mr P a total £150 compensation (including £50 already awarded).
Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  He said he drives an electric vehicle because  he 
feels strongly about the environment. He felt Direct Line should  have provided a like for like 
vehicle the second time the car was taken into the garage because the job wasnt  done 
correctly the first time.  He said he wanted Direct Line to pay the cost of a like for like vehicle 
for the days he was without one following the substandard repair.  He also wanted  
compensation for time off work and missed/cancelled meetings. And he wanted Direct  Line 
to supply a like for like vehicle for the repairs still required  to put things  right.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 December 2019  where I explained why I didnt intend  to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far I dont 
intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy documents show that Mr P was entitled to be provided with a hire car once  (his) 
car is unavailable for use due to (its) approved  repairer commencing the repairs and whilst 
those repairs are carried out. Hire car is defined  as a small hatchback  car or similar that 
is supplied to you by the car hire company on a temporary basis.  This car should  keep you 
mobile but may not be the same as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status.
Ref: DRN30243012Mr P feels  that Direct Line should  have gone  above and beyond whats  in its policy terms 
because the initial repairs werent completed to a satisfactory standard.  He thinks  that under 
the circumstance Direct  Line should have provided him with a like for like vehicle.  
Direct Line says the car hire company  it uses wasnt able to offer Mr P an electric car. And 
having reviewed  the notes  on Direct Lines system, I think Direct Line is right about  this. I 
can also see that Direct Line offered Mr P a premier car  which was above  whats  stated in 
the policy terms. 
I appreciate that driving an electric car is important to Mr P because  hes concerned about 
the environment.  But there was no obligation for Direct Line to provide a like for like vehicle 
under the terms  of the policy. And Im satisfied that it wasnt able to get an electric car from 
its usual supplier. So I dont think it would be fair to say Direct Line should  have  provided    
Mr P with a like for like vehicle when it took his car in for repairs  - even taking into account  
that the initial repairs werent adequately  completed.
Direct Line accepts that Mr P should have  been provided with a hire car when his vehicle 
was taken away for further  repairs. But Mr P says the compensation Direct Line offered him 
isnt sufficient. 
Mr P says that he needed to take time off work and cancel meetings on the days he didnt 
have a vehicle  available  to him. But he hasnt provided any evidence of loss of income. From 
what hes said, he also doesnt appear to have incurred any transport costs. So, from what 
Ive seen, I dont  think  Mr P has suffered any financial  loss. 
Mr P says Direct Lines compensation should  take into account what it would  have cost him 
to hire a vehicle.  But Mr P didnt  hire a vehicle. So, I dont think Direct Line needed to 
consider this in its offer.
Mr P has commented about there being no deterrent  to Direct Line doing what its done 
again. But it isnt the role of this service to fine or punish a business. As there doesnt appear  
to have been any financial loss, I can only consider the emotional  and practical impact of 
Direct Lines errors on Mr P.  
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr P when the repairs  werent  completed  to a 
satisfactory standard. And this was made  worse  when  the hire car he was promised didnt  
turn up. This also caused him some inconvenience as he had to rearrange meetings  and 
make phone calls to try to sort things out. 
But having  considered everything  Ive seen so far, I think Direct Lines offer of £150 
compensation is fair. So, I dont intend to direct it to offer any more. 
responses
Direct Line didnt provide any further  information  or comments.
Mr P said he disagreed with the findings Id made  in my provisional decision.  He made 
several comments reiterating what hed said in his original submissions. He also said that 
the reason Direct Line didnt provide him with a like for like vehicle was due to cost  not 
because it didnt have  a supplier. 
Ref: DRN30243013In summary,  Mr P said Direct Line was wholly at fault for the time he was without a vehicle 
and as it has no terms and conditions included in the policy that covers  this, it was duty 
bound to put him in the position he would have been  if the events hadnt  happened.  He felt 
Direct Line should  have  to pay the cost of a like for like vehicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Direct Lines reasons for not supplying Mr P with a like for like vehicle  dont make  a 
difference to my decision  because theres nothing  that says it had to do so. The terms and 
conditions are relevant  because they set out what Mr P was entitled to when his vehicle was 
in for repair.
I appreciate Mr P feels strongly  that Direct Line should have provided him with a like for like 
vehicle because of the failure to make adequate repairs to his car. I also understand his 
frustration that the hire vehicle it had promised him didnt turn up and the repairs still werent  
completed to a satisfactory  standard the second time the car was taken  in.
But as I said in my provisional decision, it isnt my role to fine or punish Direct Line. I can 
only consider the impact  Direct Lines failings  had on Mr P  both financially and non-
financially. Mr P hasnt  been able to evidence  any financial loss. And as Ive said, I think the 
£150 Direct Line had already offered is fair compensation  for the frustration and 
inconvenience he experienced. 
Having considered everything  Mr P has said, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3024301