K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the handling  of a claim  under his mobile  phone  insurance 
policy with Allianz  Insurance Plc.
background
On 1 October 2018, Mr H made a claim as he had lost his phone.  The claim was 
accepted and he was told that a new phone would be delivered  to him the next day. He 
was also apparently told he could go to a store (run by the agents that handle insurance 
claims on behalf of Allianz and who also sold the insurance policy to Mr H) to get a new 
SIM card. Mr H was able to use the new SIM card in a temporary  phone  while  waiting for 
the replacement.  
However, when the courier arrived with the new phone the next day, he said he was 
there to exchange the new phone for Mr Hs old one. As Mr H didnt  have the old one, 
the courier would not leave him with the replacement.  Mr H says Allianz  also cancelled 
the SIM card he was using. Mr H says he was therefore unable to work at all (he is a taxi 
driver and relies on his telephone for allocation of work). Initially  Mr H told Allianz he had 
lost £500, later he said he earns around  £100  a day and had lost a day and a halfs  work  
due to this delay. 
I understand a new phone was delivered to Mr H on 3 October  2018.  A SIM card was 
included with that order so the SIM card that he had got from the store was deactivated. 
Allianz accepted  that the error was because it had incorrectly recorded that there was to 
be an exchange, rather than just delivery  of a replacement phone  on 2 October  2018.  
Allianz  offered  Mr H £30 compensation  for this, made up of £20 for the poor service and 
£10 for the one day delay in receiving the replacement phone.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld,  
as he considered Allianzs offer to be reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr H doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment,  so the matter has been referred to 
me. 
Mr H says it was the deactivation of the SIM card that was caused  him the most trouble, 
as it meant  he could not work. Mr H that £100 compensation would be more  appropriate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz did arrange for next day delivery  of a replacement phone and also arranged for a 
SIM card in the meantime. If this delivery  had gone  as planned, Mr H would have had his 
replacement that day and been able to use it on 2 October 2018. Instead  it was 
delivered at 13.17  on 3 October 2018.  Mr H says this resulted in loss of earnings. 
Ref: DRN33805482I can understand the frustration Mr H experienced when  the first delivery was aborted  
and the SIM card was deactivated. It is appropriate that Allianz  pay some compensation 
for the trouble this caused. I have to also consider whether any loss of earnings was as 
a direct result of Allianzs  error.  There is no convincing evidence of the earnings that Mr 
H says he lost as a result of the phone not being delivered and the SIM being 
deactivated. I have  to also take into account the fact that the policy  doesnt state that any 
replacement phone will be provided  within a specific time; and Mr H was still provided 
with a replacement  phone  within 48 hours  of reporting his lost. I dont consider that is 
unreasonable overall. 
Having taken all the circumstances  into account,  I am not satisfied that it would be 
reasonable to require  Allianz to reimburse any loss of earnings  (which have not in any 
event been proven). Overall, I am satisfied that the offer of compensation already made 
is reasonable and in line with awards made in similar cases.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Allianz  Insurance Plc., as I consider that a 
reasonable offer has already been  made to resolve the complaint. I would ask Allianz to 
now pay Mr H the compensation offered, if it has not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3380548