K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about Zenith Insurance plc. He isnt happy  about the way it dealt with a 
claim under his commercial motor  insurance  policy. 
background 
Mr C was involved in an incident in January 2017. He told Zenith the third party  had 
suddenly braked in front of him and he stopped behind her. He said there wasnt  any 
damage to the third partys small car or to his van. When he discussed this with Zenith, he 
thought the other side wouldnt continue with the claim and he highlighted  that he thought  it 
was fraudulent.
Over a year passed  and Zenith didnt contact Mr C before concluding the claim. It settled the 
matter holding Mr C fully liable. But when Mr C was eventually  made  aware, he continued to 
dispute this. Zenith acknowledged it didnt deal with his claim very well and didnt keep him 
up to date and offered  £200 compensation in recognition of this. As Mr C remained  unhappy, 
he complained  to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He was of the view that 
Zenith hadnt fully investigated the claim and it was agreed Zenith would allow  Mr Cs no 
claims discount (NCD) and pay a further  £100  compensation.
As Mr C didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
It is clear Zenith didnt undertake a fair or reasonable investigation into this claim and that 
appears to be accepted  by both sides. Although the third partys whiplash  injury may have 
been attributed to this incident.  Zenith  didnt look to defend Mr C in a reasonable way, and 
this may have prejudiced his position.
I say this as the third party  said their car was a write off from this incident.  But their 
engineers evidence showed  that the car was written  off in relation to damage sustained to 
the front of the car, which wasnt possible as any damage would be to the rear of the third 
partys car.
Furthermore, Mr C has provided photographs of the other drivers car and there wasnt  any 
damage to the front of the car. And there wasnt any visible  damage to Mr Cs van or even to 
the rear the third partys car. I know Zenith  feels it was possible that there  was damage. But 
their failure to check both vehicles, given the discrepancies identified, clearly  prejudiced  
Mr Cs position. It is difficult  to say that liability was established when  the accident damage  
was to the opposite end of the third partys car. 
However, Zenith has agreed to allow Mr Cs NCD which has limited the impact on him. The 
claim by the third party was always going to affect Mr Cs NCD while  it was being 
investigated. So, it was inevitable Mr Cs premium would have been affected at the time of 
renewal. 
Ref: DRN30689082But now Mr C can approach his new insurer to ask about a refund from the time he renewed. 
I know Mr Cs representative feels he should be paid a lot more  compensation as he says 
Mr Cs business has been affected by this. But, having discussed  the case with him, I think  
he understands how this service approaches cases like this. And it would be very difficult  to 
establish how all of this impacted on Mr C. And I dont think Zenith can be held responsible  
for the success,  or otherwise, of Mr Cs business.
But I do think all of this has had a greater effect on Mr C than it ought to have. Had Zenith 
have undertaken  a fuller investigation  in the first instance it is likely the claim would have 
been finalised quicker. And had it have revisited the claim when Mr C provided  his 
photographic evidence (that was available at the time of the claim) then Mr C wouldnt have 
had to complain in order to feel like he was being heard.
Finally, as both sides are aware this service doesnt decide liability,  which  is a matter for the 
courts, but I have  to consider whether Zeniths  investigation and consideration of the case 
was reasonable.  And I dont think it was which clearly prejudiced  Mr Cs position. Had it have 
acted on the photographic evidence provided by Mr C and challenged the third-party 
engineers evidence then it is possible that Mr C wouldnt  have had a fault claim against him. 
As such,  I think it would  be unfair to have the claim marked as a fault against  him.
So, the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is for 
Zenith to mark the claim as non-fault only (as opposed to fault) and to allow his NCD. It 
should provide  Mr C with a letter  of explanation  so he can approach his new insurer  who can 
look at whether he is owed a refund.  I also think it should pay Mr C £500 compensation, as 
opposed to the £300 outlined by the investigator. I say this as Mr C has clearly  been put to a 
fair degree  of stress and inconvenience in advancing this matter and Im satisfied all this had 
some effect on his fledging business.  
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith 
Insurance plc to mark the claim as non-fault,  allow Mr Cs NCD and pay him £500  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3068908