K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mr F complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (Legal 
and General) declined  its claim on Mr Fs life assurance policy  following his death. 
background
Mr F took out a 20 year level term life assurance policy for a sum assured  of £100,000 with 
Legal and General in 2010. When applying for the policy, Mr F said he was a non-smoker  
and was charged non-smoker rates. The policy lapsed in 2015 due to non-payment. Mr F 
completed a declaration of health in October 2015, saying he was a non-smoker and the 
policy was reinstated.  
Mr F, unfortunately, died in 2017 from heart disease. His estate submitted a claim to Legal 
and General but this was declined. Legal and General said Mr F made a misrepresentation 
when he said he wasnt a smoker in both 2010 and 2015. The policy  was cancelled from the 
outset and the premiums  were refunded.  Mr Fs estate complained to Legal and General. 
Legal and General responded in July 2018. It said it came to light, when assessing the claim, 
that Mr F had incorrectly answered a question about whether he had smoked cigarettes in 
the twelve months prior to taking out the policy. Legal and General said Mr Fs medical  
records showed he told his GP he had smoked  more than usual on one weekend around  
eleven months before taking out the policy. It said if Mr F had answered the question 
correctly then it would have applied smoker rates to his premiums. So he hadnt been paying 
the correct premium for the level of cover he had. 
Legal and General classified the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless, meaning  that 
Mr F knew or must  have  known that the information was both wrong and relevant to the 
insurer. It declined the claim, avoided the policy from the outset and refunded premiums 
paid. 
Mr Fs estate complained to this service. Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He agreed 
Mr F made a misrepresentation when applying for the policy, as the medical evidence shows 
he smoked around eleven months  prior to taking out the policy. But he didnt think Legal  and 
General had provided enough evidence to show the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. 
Our investigator said the appropriate category of misrepresentation is careless, because this 
category covers circumstances where the misrepresentation  resulted from a failure to 
exercise reasonable care. He said that smoking  on one occasion eleven  months  prior to 
taking out the policy  is something that could  be forgotten  about if not enough  care was taken 
by Mr F to recall or check when he last smoked.  
Our investigator also said Legal  and General hadnt provided any clear evidence to show  
that Mr F made a misrepresentation when he answered the smoking  question  on the 
declaration of health in 2015. The evidence Legal and General relied on shows  Mr F smoked 
in May 2014  and February 2016  but not during the period of time referred  to on the 
declaration of heath. 
Our investigator concluded that if Mr F hadnt  made  a misrepresentation then Legal and 
General wouldve applied smoker rates to his policy.  He said it should do this now and pay a 
proportionate settlement  to the estate,  subject to the remaining terms of the policy. He said 
Ref: DRN365163828% interest should be added from the date the claim was declined to the date of settlement. 
And if the premiums have  already been refunded, then Legal  and General should deduct this 
from the settlement.
Legal and General agreed with our investigators  recommendations. It said the revised  sum 
assured payable, based on smokers rates being applied  from the outset, is £44,537.  
Mr Fs estate didnt  agree he had made  a misrepresentation. They  thought Mr F answered  to 
the best of his knowledge and belief and wouldnt have  been able to find out for sure if he 
smoked during  the previous twelve months. They said if Mr F had known he was just a few 
weeks away from not having smoked for 12 months, then he would  have waited before 
applying for the policy. 
Mr Fs estate also complained about  how Legal  and General  handled the claim. They said 
the claim wasnt logged  when they first phoned to inform  Legal and General that Mr F had 
passed away. And it was two months later, when they asked for an update,  that the claim 
was progressed. Mr Fs estate felt the interest should be backdated  to before the claim was 
declined because of the delays. Mr Fs estate also provided information about their very 
difficult circumstances and asked  that the distress caused to them  is considered.
Legal and General consented to our service considering the new complaint about possible 
delays under the original complaint reference.
Our investigator looked at whether any delays had occurred and issued a second  
assessment. His assessment about  the misrepresentation remained unchanged.  He said 
Legal and General made an error in not logging  the claim when it was first contacted, but 
this didnt cause  unreasonable  delays. He also said Legal and General calculated  the 
interest it paid from 60 days after Mr F passed away until the date of settlement, so it doesnt  
need to add further interest. He said he doesnt  think Legal and General need  to pay 
compensation for any inconvenience the claim outcome has caused.  
The estate  didnt agree  and so this complaint has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part. 
Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, but Ive limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is whether Legal and General acted 
fairly when  it said Mr F made a careless misrepresentation in 2010, applied  smokers rates 
to the premiums and agreed to a proportionate  settlement. 
I would first of all like to offer my condolences to Mr Fs family for their loss and Im aware of 
their circumstances and the difficulties they have experienced  over the past few years.  
When Mr F applied for the policy in March 2010 he was asked whether he had used 
cigarettes or other nicotine products,  including  occasional use, in the last twelve months. I 
think the question  was clearly worded and Mr F would have known  what information he was 
being asked to provide. Mr F answered  no to this question. Ive seen Mr Fs medical 
records and these show that in mid-April 2009  his GP recorded him as a smoker and Mr F 
Ref: DRN36516383told his GP during  the same  appointment that he had smoked  more over weekend. So Im 
satisfied that Mr F was still smoking around  eleven  months prior to taking out the policy. So, I 
think the question  asked about smoking  was answered incorrectly. 
Legal and General has agreed this misrepresentation should  be classified as careless. 
Guidance issued by the Association  of British Insurers (ABI) says that to classify  a 
misrepresentation in this way, it needs  to be shown that Mr F didnt take reasonable care 
and this can include anything from an understandable  oversight, or an inadvertent mistaken, 
to serious negligence. 
Legal and General said if it had known that Mr F had smoked  during the twelve  months  prior 
to taking out the policy it would still have offered him the policy,  but would have applied  
smokers rates and so charged higher  premiums.  And, having  seen  the underwriting criteria, 
Im satisfied this is the case. Im also satisfied Legal and General acted fairly when it later 
classified the misrepresentation  as careless.  
I know Mr Fs estate  feel that if Mr F was aware  that he had, in fact, smoked in the previous 
twelve months and that he needed to wait only a short  time to be able to apply for the policy 
as a non-smoker,  then he would have opted  to wait. So they think its likely he genuinely 
thought he hadnt smoked  during the previous twelve  months.  
From what  Mr Fs estate  has said, it seems Mr F was making  efforts to stop smoking prior to 
taking out the policy.  So I think whats likely to have happened is that Mr F had stopped 
smoking by the time he took out the policy   although there isnt sufficient evidence  to say 
when that was exactly. Overall I think he just didnt take enough care to think  back to when 
he last smoked. So I see this as an oversight or mistake on the part of Mr F. 
But this was an important  question and I think most people would know the answer was 
likely to have an impact  on the policy terms Legal  and General would have been willing to 
offer. So, although  this might have been  a simple oversight or mistake,  Legal  and General 
are still left in the position where, if they had known that Mr F smoked in the previous twelve  
months, they would  have  offered him a policy on smokers rates. And so I think theyve acted 
fairly now that theyve  done that.
Legal and General have  looked at the premium paid by Mr F and calculated  the reduced 
amount of cover he would have been  offered on smokers rates. Its agreed to add simple 
interest at 8% per year from 60 days after the date Mr F passed away until the date of 
settlement. I think this is a fair settlement. 
Mr Fs estate also complained that Legal  and General  caused  delays by not logging the 
claim the first time they contacted it. From the information provided, I can see that Legal and 
General delayed the claim by four days by not logging it when it should have. And Mr Fs 
estate had to ring Legal and General to start the process again. I realise the family  had just 
suffered a bereavement  and so any delay is likely to have caused  some level of distress.  
But, although I acknowledge  the delay, I wont be asking Legal and General to pay 
compensation as I dont  think  the delay was a significant one. 
Legal and General may have already refunded the policy premiums  to Mr Fs estate. If this is 
the case, then it should reduce the settlement by the amount it has already paid in refunded  
premiums. 
Ref: DRN36516384my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
If it has not already  done so, I require Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay 
the estate of Mr F: 
the proportionate sum assured of £44,537;
8% simple interest per annum  from 60 days from the date Mr F passed away to the 
date of settlement;
reduce the settlement amount by the amount it has already paid in refunded 
premiums. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3651638