K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the delay in replacing  their roof that was damaged in a storm 
and letting in water. There unhappy with what their buildings  insurance company HDI Global 
Specialty SE (HDI) have done to put things  right.   
background 
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs Rs conservatory  roof was damaged. They reported this to 
their buildings insurer HDI. HDI appointed experts (C) to inspect and validate the claim. C 
completed a site survey  in September 2018.  The assessor told Mr and Mrs R that the roof 
could not be repaired  and would need  to be replaced. 
C produced a report in October 2019 which said that although  the conservatory was covered 
by the policy  there  were  parts  that had suffered from wear and tear prior to the storm which  
their insurers  HDI wouldnt pay for. C said that the parts suffering from wear  and tear would 
need to be replaced and couldnt be repaired or reused.  C estimated that the cost of 
replacing the wear  and tear parts was around £1,000 and the cost of replacing the parts  that 
were covered under the policy was around  £2,300. Therefore the total cost of replacing the 
roof was around  £3,300.  This included the cost of guttering. 
HDI explained to Mr and Mrs R that the parts suffering  from wear  and tear were not covered 
under the policy.  They  said Mr and Mrs R could either pay just over £1,000 to replace the 
parts that were suffering  from wear and tear or they could accept a cash  settlement of 
around £2,400  and arrange to have the work completed themselves. Mr and Mrs R said that 
they wanted HDI to fix their roof and didnt want a cash settlement. 
In mid-October Mr and Mrs R contacted  HDI who told them  that no further  action had been 
taken as Mr and Mrs R had not paid their £300  excess. Mr and Mrs R said that no one had 
asked them to pay their excess and the excess was in fact £150.  HDI admitted that they got 
this wrong and apologised. HDI agreed  to meet  the total cost of replacing  the roof and 
waived Mr and Mrs Rs £150  excess to compensate  Mr and Mrs R for the delays.
HDI informed C that they would  pay for the replacing of the roof in its entirety. C stated that 
they would  send HDI a revised  report.  This report also in October 2019 estimated the total 
cost of replacing the roof was around £3,100. However this second report  didnt contain  the 
replacing of the guttering as there  was some discussion  between HDI and Mr and Mrs R as 
to who should  replace  the guttering. HDI later agreed that they would replace the guttering.  
C agreed that the work would take place a few days before Christmas. A few days before the 
work was due to take place Mr and Mrs R were told that C didnt have the engineers  to 
complete the roof. Mr and Mrs R considered hiring their own engineers  but decided against  
this as the work would  not be guaranteed.  In late December Mr and Mrs R were told that all 
the items  were in stock and ready to be fitted in late January. On the day the roof was due to 
be fitted C informed  Mr and Mrs R that the roof hadnt been ordered. It transpired that C had 
actually ordered  the wrong  parts. 
The roof was finally fitted in late February  2019  some five months after the incident.  Mr and 
Mrs R complained to HDI who offered them £400 made up of £250 from HDI and £150 from 
C. Mr and Mrs R accepted this money and brought a complaint to our service.  
Ref: DRN38602122Our investigator said that HDI should pay Mr and Mrs R a further £200 as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the delays  and poor service. HDI didnt agree with 
the investigators findings. HDI said that the award was punitive  and that a total of £600 
compensation was not reflective of moderate  distress and inconvenience. They said that the 
conservatory was not an essential living area.  And that the fact that the roof was not actually 
fitted until late February 2019  is irrelevant. HDI asked  for the complaint  to be passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr and Mrs R are happy with their new roof and in this decision I will only address  the 
amount of compensation that Mr and Mrs R are entitled to for distress  and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs Rs roof was damaged in September 2018 and work wasnt completed  until late 
February 2019. Mr and Mrs R were without the use and enjoyment  of this room  for five 
months. Mr and Mrs R have submitted  evidence  that the conservatory is a room  that is used 
daily all year round and covers 35% of their living space. Having seen their photographs  and 
read their testimony Im satisfied that this is the case. 
Having reviewed the case notes, I accept that HDI tried really hard to get the roof replaced 
as quickly as possible. Unfortunately C made  a number of errors  which  prevented the roof 
being repaired much  sooner  such as not measuring properly during the site survey, ordering 
the wrong parts and not having sufficient engineers to meet  their commitments.  As the 
insurer, HDI are ultimately responsible for this poor service. 
HDI asked Mr and Mrs R to contribute over £1,000  towards the cost of the work due to a 
wear and tear exclusion. In this instance HDI should  not have asked Mr and Mrs R to 
contribute towards the replacing of the roof. Any work completed should be lasting  and 
effective. If the only way to achieve this means that the customer gains some betterment  the 
customer should not be asked to pay the value of the betterment. Such  a situation would not 
be fair and reasonable. 
In deciding what compensation  is fair and reasonable Ive considered  the following;
Could the work have  been completed earlier? 
The work should have taken place  in December 2018 at the latest and if it had been Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs R wouldve been happy.  The delays in December and January 
could have been avoided if C had ordered  the correct parts  and had sufficient resources. 
Have Mr and Mrs R already received  sufficient  compensation for the delay and poor service? 
HDI waived Mr and Mrs Rs £150  excess after the delay in October 2018. I am happy  that 
Mr and Mrs R have been compensated  for this delay  so I will only concentrate on the delay 
between December 2018 and February 2019.  
Ref: DRN38602123HDI have said that as they have paid Mr and Mrs R £400 they have already been sufficiently 
compensated. Whilst I understand why HDI thinks its done enough to compensate Mr and 
Mrs R I dont think that theyve picked up on how much distress  and inconvenience this 
whole incident  has caused to Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R are in their late seventies. I think that the impact of the delays in repairing the 
roof was worse than it may have  been  for many customers. If the delays had been over the 
summer then the impact  would likely have been  much less. However the delays  in this case 
were over the winter  months. Twice Mr and Mrs R emptied the conservatory unnecessarily  
of furniture to get it ready for engineers  to fit the new roof. On both occasions in December 
2018 and January 2019 C let them down. On each occasion Mr and Mrs R moved the 
furniture back into the conservatory. 
There was a gap in the roof which allowed wind and rain to come into the conservatory. 
Every time it rained  the conservatory flooded,  furniture got wet and Mr and Mrs R had to 
hoover or mop out the tiled floor. It also caused Mr and Mrs Rs office to flood so Mr R put 
the contents up high to prevent damage. Mr R states that he didnt permanently move  the 
furniture from the conservatory as to do so would have meant that he would also have lost 
the use of their living room which was the only remaining living area on the ground floor.  C 
did place tarpaulin  on the conservatory but within two weeks this blew off. I would  not expect 
Mr and Mrs R to attempt to refit the tarpaulin themselves. I accept that Mr and Mrs R done 
all they could to mitigate  their loss. 
Im satisfied that a total of £600 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation to reflect  the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs R. The 
£600 is to compensate Mr and Mrs R for the loss of use and enjoyment  of the conservatory 
especially over the Christmas  period, for having to unnecessarily  empty  and refill the 
conservatory of furniture on two occasions  in December 2018 and January 2019, for the 
poor service provided by C to Mr and Mrs R and for having to mop or hoover the 
conservatory out each time it rained throughout the winter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
I require HDI Global  Specialty SE to pay Mr and Mrs R a further  £200  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve experienced. 
HDI Global Specialty SE Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3860212