K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that the advice given to him by Wesleyan Assurance Society in relation to 
additional pension  contributions was inappropriate and that he would have been better off 
making additional contributions to an occupational pension  scheme  instead.
background
Mr A has been assisted in making  his complaint by a claims management company (CMC).  
But for ease, I will generally  refer in this decision  to all communication  as having been  with, 
and from, Mr A.
Mr A was given advice by Wesleyan in relation to his pension  savings in June 2001. As a 
result of that advice Mr A agreed  to take out a personal pension plan with Wesleyan. He 
complains that advice failed to make him sufficiently  aware of the choices he had in terms of 
paying additional contributions to an occupational pension scheme. 
At that time Mr A was a member of an occupational pension scheme. That scheme  offered 
the opportunity  for members to pay additional  voluntary contributions  (AVCs). But it didnt 
provide for those  contributions to be used to purchase added  years  benefits. Later in 2001 
Mr A changed jobs and so became a member  of a different occupational pension  scheme.  
The new scheme  did allow contributions to be used  to purchase added years  benefits.
When Mr A complained to Wesleyan  it accepted  that the advice it gave to him failed to make 
him sufficiently aware of the choice he had to make additional contributions  to the first 
occupational scheme.  But it didnt accept  that it should have refreshed that advice when 
Mr A changed jobs later in the year. It said it was unaware of that change  of employment 
when it gave its advice.  So it didnt consider that Mr A had lost out in terms of the pension  
benefits he could  have received from an occupational scheme (since the first scheme didnt  
offer the opportunity for additional contributions to be used to purchase added years  
benefits)
But Wesleyan looked at the charges that Mr A would have paid if he had chosen  to make 
additional contributions to his occupational  schemes instead. And it compared those charges 
to what Mr A had paid to Wesleyan. It identified that the charges Mr A had paid to Wesleyan  
whilst he was a member  of the first occupational  scheme were greater than if hed paid 
additional contributions to his occupational  scheme. But Mr A had saved money compared to 
the charges he would have paid to the second  occupational scheme.  Wesleyan didnt look to 
offset the two amounts and offered to pay the full difference in charges from the first scheme 
to Mr A.
Mr A didnt accept that offer and brought his complaint to this service.  The complaint has 
been assessed by one of our adjudicators. His initial conclusions were that it was reasonable 
for Wesleyan to have  based its advice on Mr As original employment. He said it didnt seem 
that Wesleyan  was aware of the future change when its advice was given. So he thought 
that the offer Wesleyan had made to Mr A was fair.
Ref: DRN33850602Since that assessment was made both parties have provided a number of additional pieces 
of evidence and information for our adjudicator to consider.  Mr A said that he had started his 
new role in September 2001. But given the nature of that role he said his change of 
employer would have  already been decided when Wesleyan gave its advice. So he said that 
advice should  have considered the pension options available from the new employer. 
Wesleyan showed  that it had a further meeting with Mr A in 2007. It says it wasnt aware  of 
his change of employer until that time. And it says that during that meeting Mr A refused its 
advice to consider  the additional contribution options from his employer, saying instead that 
he wanted to increase  the contributions he was making to the personal pension  Wesleyan 
provided instead.
So, as this complaint hasnt  been  resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr A and by Wesleyan. There are some  differences in those submissions and at times they 
have changed.  So where the evidence is unclear, or there are differences,  I have made  my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Wesleyan has already accepted that the advice it gave to Mr A in 2001 fell short  of what  he 
might have expected.  It has agreed  that the advice doesnt appear to have made  him 
sufficiently aware of his ability to pay additional  contributions to an occupational pension  
scheme. And Wesleyan  has made, what appears to be, a fair offer to compensate  Mr A for 
the additional charges he has paid as a result  of its advice, and taking a personal pension  
plan.
But the offer to refund the excess charges would only be fair if the options  Mr A had to make 
additional contributions to his occupational  scheme were limited  to those of a defined 
contribution nature  that is they were similar  in form to the benefits he would receive  from 
the personal pension he took with Wesleyan. That certainly appears to be the case with the 
occupational scheme that Mr A was a member of at the time the advice was given. But Mr A 
did change roles shortly afterwards, and the new occupational scheme  did offer him the 
opportunity of using  additional contributions  to purchase defined benefits   in the form of 
added years of pension. And it is fair to say that those benefits might have been far more 
valuable to Mr A given his age and likely  salary  progression  at that time.
Ref: DRN33850603So it seems  to me that what  I need to decide  at this point is whether Wesleyan was aware,  
or should have  been aware,  of Mr As forthcoming change in employment.
Over the course of this complaint Mr A has provided conflicting information  about that 
employment change. When he first made  his complaint, he signed  a form for his CMC  that 
contained the statement I was not planning  on leaving my employer when  the PPS 
[personal pension  scheme] was arranged. Later he told Wesleyan that he changed his 
employer in November  2001, and it was that date Wesleyan used to calculate  the additional 
charges that Mr A had paid. But more recently Mr A has told us that he started his new job in 
July 2001, or alternatively September 2001.
So, whilst I have no doubts  that Mr A is giving us the best recollections he can, I have some 
concerns over the amount  of reliance I can place on memories from so long ago. Looking at 
the contemporaneous evidence that has been  provided by Wesleyan I can see that there  
was no mention of a planned change of employment  in the advice document  it produced for 
Mr A in 2001. In fact that document  records that one of the reasons Mr A wanted  to make 
additional contributions was that a large  proportion of his salary was based  on expenses  
which might  leave a shortfall in his retirement  income  I wouldnt have expected that 
situation to continue following his change in employment.  And Wesleyan has provided us 
with records showing that it didnt record Mr As change in employment until a further 
meeting with him in 2007.
I have considered what Mr A has said about the nature of his new role, and that normally 
offers of employment  for that sort of job would be made some  months  in advance.  But from 
my experience that isnt always the case  particularly  when  someone,  as Mr A did, is 
moving into that profession rather than moving  within it. And I have also seen that Mr As 
employer needed  to make  corrections to the salary  Mr A was paid in his new role the 
following year  backdated to September 2001.  Of course there might be many reasons for 
that, but one explanation might be that the appointment was made more quickly that might  
normally be the case.
So, on balance, I cant say that Mr A had made  Wesleyan aware, when it provided its advice 
to him, that he would be changing his employer later that year. As a result  I think it 
reasonable that Wesleyan based that advice on the circumstances that it recorded  for Mr A 
at the time. And so I dont  think  it needed  to take account of the defined pension  benefits 
that Mr A could purchase with his additional contributions after he had changed employer.
For completeness I have also considered the outcome  of the review  that Wesleyan  
undertook of Mr As finances in 2007.  I can see that as part of its report  from that time 
Wesleyan did mention to Mr A that he might  have other options available  to him as part of 
his retirement planning   one option  specifically mentioned was Added  years. But the 
report went on to note that Mr A didnt  want to take advice from Wesleyan on those other 
options and wanted to increase his contribution  to the Wesleyan personal pension plan. And 
the report further noted that Mr A was keen to ensure  his retirement income  wasnt solely  
reliant on his occupational  pension  scheme. So I dont think that Wesleyan  failed to make 
Mr A adequately aware of his other contribution options in 2007  either.
So overall I think the compensation offer that Wesleyan has made to Mr A fairly reflects the 
loss he suffered from not being told enough  about  his options to make additional pension 
contributions to his original occupational  scheme. But I havent seen enough to make me 
think that Wesleyan  was, or should have been, aware of Mr As forthcoming change  in 
employer and so amended its advice  accordingly.
Ref: DRN33850604It follows that I dont think this complaint should  be upheld, though Wesleyan, if it hasnt 
already, should  pay the agreed compensation to Mr A.
my final decision
I think that the offer that Wesleyan Assurance  Society has made  to Mr A to settle this 
complaint is fair and reasonable. Wesleyan should  pay that compensation to Mr A if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  4 December 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3385060