K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about fraud problems which caused them  considerable difficulty, 
including that they couldnt access their HSBC UK Bank Plc account  in the normal way.
background
Mr and Mrs A discovered on 22 December 2018  that cards  for their HSBC  joint account 
werent working. Mr A called to complain, and discovered that hed been  a victim of 
attempted fraud.  HSBC had allowed a caller  to report Mr As cards as lost on 17 December. 
HSBC had also wrongly given confidential information to this caller,  although  security  hadnt 
been passed. Mr and Mrs As account was the subject of repeated fraud attempts after this. 
They couldnt use their cards,  and could only access money by going into a branch. They 
had to repeatedly  reset  security  on their account. And they werent able to fully access their 
account as normal  until the start of February.
HSBC said it was sorry about what had gone wrong. It offered to pay £500 in compensation. 
Mr A said that wasnt enough.  He showed HSBC a quote for travel  tickets  for a trip costing  
£4,990, and said he and his family werent  able to go because  he didnt have full access to 
his account at that time. The trip was for a last-minute wedding,  which  Mr and Mrs A missed. 
But HSBC  said it wouldnt pay Mr A £4,990. It didnt think that hed actually lost that money. 
Our investigator thought that the amount that HSBC  had offered Mr and Mrs A provided a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. But Mr A didnt agree. He said the settlement 
offer wasnt  appropriate,  given  the problems that he and his family had faced. And he didnt 
think that HSBC had been appropriately  penalised.  
Our investigator discussed  this with HSBC, and its suggested that this complaint has been 
brought only by Mr A. It said that it had taken the impact on both Mr A and Mrs A into 
account, but it also suggested  that Mrs A could  complain  separately if she wished. 
Because Mr and Mrs A didnt want to accept HSBCs offer,  and because HSBC  wouldnt 
increase that offer, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-HSBC accepted responsibility  for what went wrong with Mr and Mrs As account. I had to 
decide if the offer it made provided  a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
-Id taken a different  view to HSBC about who the complainant was. I thought this 
complaint had been brought  by both Mr A and Mrs A. They were both named on the 
account. And they both signed this complaint  form, which was sent to HSBC.  So any 
award I made would  go to them both, and take account of the effect  on them  both.
-Mr A didnt  think the offer HSBC made was enough to make up for what  had gone wrong  
in this case. And he said it wasnt enough  to deter HSBC  from doing the same again.  
Ref: DRN30151032-Our service isnt a regulator. We dont have powers to fine or otherwise punish banks. So 
I couldnt increase  the award in this case to try to make sure HSBC  wouldnt let this 
happen again. My role was to consider the impact on Mr and Mrs A. So thats what  I did.
-We knew this problem  started  when HSBCs call handler made a mistake, and gave 
confidential information about  Mr and Mrs As account to a fraudster who hadnt passed  
security. There were then repeated  fraudulent attempts to access their account, over a 
sustained period. This must have  been enormously worrying  for them.  
-Mr and Mrs A werent able to use phone  banking,  and could only access money by going  
into a branch. This mustve been  extremely  inconvenient for Mr and Mrs A. They  said 
they found it very difficult to budget for extra expenses over the Christmas period, 
without easy access to their money.  And they missed out on purchases  in the Boxing 
Day and New Year sales. Mr A said he was unable, due to the short time he had to make 
arrangements, to find an alternative way of paying for flights for a last-minute trip.
-Our investigator said that Mr A hadnt  contacted  HSBC about that at the time, and if he 
had, HSBC may have  been able to find a way of paying for this flight  for the couple. But I 
wouldnt expect that Mr A and Mrs A would wish to travel  overseas at a time when their 
account wasnt secure, and their debit cards werent  working.  
-I didnt think HSBC  had to pay Mr and Mrs A the cost of the flights that they missed out 
on. But I did think I could take into account  that Mr A and Mrs A missed this event  when I 
was considering compensation, along with the other issues set out above. And, having 
considered all those  issues, I thought  it would  be appropriate to increase the level of 
compensation. I didnt  think that £500  (which  would work out at £250 each for Mr A and 
Mrs A) would be quite enough  to provide a fair and reasonable  outcome to this 
complaint. Instead, I said Id ask HSBC to pay Mr A and Mrs A a total of £750 in 
compensation, for what had gone wrong  here. I thought that provided a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this issue. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it would  abide by my final decision. Mr A said that £750 wasnt enough.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr A said Id only suggested that HSBC made  a small increase from what it had already 
agreed to pay. He didnt think that was worth it. He said that he thought  it would be fairer to 
do a rounded offer of £500  per person, making £1,000  in total. 
HSBC has suggested  to us that it was only treating this complaint  as being made by Mr A, 
and that Mrs A could  bring her own complaint if she wanted to. But our service has treated 
this as a joint complaint,  which  is how it was brought to us. 
I should also note that in offering to pay £500, HSBC told us that .. the whole situation  
relating to the joint account was reviewed  and taken into consideration when the complaint 
was investigated  and the final response  issued. And it said that the £500 offered meant it 
had ..taken  the matter  very seriously  and recognised the severe inconvenience caused to 
both parties on the account. I think that means that, although  HSBC  suggested  Mrs A could 
Ref: DRN30151033bring her own complaint,  it had already taken the impact  of this issue on her into account 
when it offered £500. I dont think theres  any suggestion that Mrs A wouldve received a 
further £500 if shed complained separately.
Our service has also treated this as a joint complaint, and considered the impact on both 
parties. I realise Mr A thinks  this complaint is worth more. But I have reviewed the complaint 
in full, to confirm whether I still think thats the right amount. And I still think  that £750 is the 
appropriate award in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must pay Mr and Mrs A £750 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3015103