K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a third 
party claim under her car insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs D was involved in an incident with another vehicle in March  2018. Mrs D said that she 
saw the other driver from the right as she approached a roundabout.  But she said he was 
indicating left to leave the roundabout at an exit before  reaching  her car. So she pulled out to 
join the roundabout. But the other driver didnt turn left and collided with her car. Mrs D 
believed the other driver was at fault because he was indicating to turn, but didnt. Mrs Ds 
car sustained light damage  to the right rear. The third party insurers  engineer reported their 
vehicle sustained light damage to the front bumper area. 
In August  2018  Admiral wrote to Mrs D to say that it intended to accept responsibility on 
Mrs Ds behalf for the incident. It explained that as a result, her No Claims Bonus (NCB)  
discount would be affected subject to any protection. It said it wouldnt be able to tell Miss D 
the impact on her renewal  premium  until nearer the renewal date. 
Mrs D complained to Admiral. She believed it hadnt  properly investigated liability.  Mrs D 
said the photos she provided  didnt  indicate  that she pulled out in front of the other driver.  
In October  2018 Admiral  replied to Mrs Ds complaint. Admiral said it had reached  its 
decision taking into account  the circumstances, images and engineer reports.  There was no 
CCTV and no independent witnesses. It relied  on a previous case  which it said would mean 
their case  wouldnt likely  be upheld if it went to court.  The previous case found that even  if 
the other driver was indicating, the onus and greater responsibility was still on Mrs D to have 
checked the other driver  wasnt  turning left before proceeding - as he was coming from her 
right. 
Mrs D remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at her complaint. She said that Admiral  had 
paid the claim without notifying her. She said shed asked for a copy of the engineer report 
but not been provided with it. 
Mrs D said the engineer told her the images Mrs D had taken of the other drivers car 
showed the damage wasnt consistent with the damage to her car. Mrs D says she had 
concerns that the other drivers claim was fraudulent.
Mrs D says Admiral  declined  her requests for information. She believes the other drivers 
claim was false. To put things right, Mrs D wanted  Admiral to provide her with all of the 
evidence it relied  on when it replied to her complaint.
Our adjudicator thought Admiral had reached its decision reasonably. So he didnt  
recommend Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs D didnt agree. Ive addressed her points in my findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36579342We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  We can look at whether an insurer has 
properly investigated  a claim and reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Mrs Ds policy with Admiral has a very common term that Ive seen  in most  if not all car 
insurance polices.  This term allows Admiral  to defend and settle a claim as it sees fits. We 
dont disagree  with this term in principle provided  Admiral can show  it treated its customer  
fairly when  applying it. 
The incident  happened  in March 2018. The other  driver made  a claim through his insurer in 
April 2018. Mrs D said that she took photos of the other drivers vehicle as the rear was 
already damaged. She was concerned they would make a claim for damage not caused by 
the incident. 
I can see that in April 2018 Mrs D sent Admiral  a photo of the rear of the other drivers 
vehicle and photos of the area of damage  to her car. 
In August  2018  Admiral reviewed the claim and decided it would accept liability  for it. It wrote  
to Mrs D to tell her this. Mrs D was very unhappy  with Admirals decision. So it instructed an 
independent assessor (IA) to inspect Mrs Ds car at her home address. This took place in 
September 2018. 
The IAs report said The attached photograph  of the claimants vehicle indicates that all of 
the displayed  damage could not be the result  of this incident.
The photograph in question is a photo  Mrs D took of the rear of the other drivers car. This 
area wasnt impacted  by the incident.
I cant comment on what was discussed  between the IA and Mrs D which  isnt in the IAs 
report. But from the photo of the other drivers vehicle that Mrs D provided,  I agree that it 
doesnt show the damage consistent with the incident. But I dont think  Mrs D provided that 
photo to evidence this. I think she provided  it as she was concerned  that damage to the rear 
of the other drivers vehicle would be claimed for. 
The other drivers insurer sent Admiral a copy of their engineers  report  to support their 
claim. The other driver  claimed  for repairs to the front bumper area of his vehicle. He didnt 
claim for any repairs to the rear of his vehicle. So the area of damage the other  driver 
claimed for  supported  by an engineers  report  was consistent with the circumstances of 
the incident as Mrs D described to Admiral. 
There were no independent witnesses or CCTV. Admiral reviewed the claim looking at the 
evidence provided  by both parties  and a review  of the location  where  the incident happened. 
It also considered case law before reaching its decision. So I think  Admiral  properly 
investigated the claim and reached  its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. When 
it did, it notified Mrs D of its decision.
Mrs D told us that Admiral hadnt replied  to her requests  for information including a copy  of 
the IAs report.  This isnt part of Mrs Ds original  complaint to Admiral. So Admiral hasnt 
addressed this complaint in its response  in October  2018. 
Ref: DRN36579343Admiral told us that it cannot see any requests  from Mrs D requesting the IA report or any 
discussion where it refused to provide  details  of the third partys claim. The only information 
Admiral said it would not provide would be a detailed description of any third party injury 
claim, which hasnt occurred in this case. 
Ive asked the adjudicator to ask Admiral  to send a copy of the IAs report  to Mrs D. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think Admiral has acted reasonably. This means I think  its 
decision to settle  the claim as a fault claim was reached in a fair way and in line with the 
terms of the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3657934