K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) 
recorded defaults on his credit file despite  saying it wouldnt  if he made payments to both his 
cards as agreed.
background
Mr B held a credit and charge card with American Express. In June 2017 he began to have 
financial difficulties and contacted American Express. He says he was told that if he agreed  
to American Expresss arrangements, he wouldnt  have  a default registered  against him. 
American Express gave Mr B a number  of extensions to pay off his debts  but when payment 
wasnt made by December 2017, it passed the matter to a collections agency team and said 
Mr B needed  to agree a repayment  plan with them within 28 days.  
But payment  wasnt  received  within  that time and so American Express  registered defaults  
against Mr B. He eventually repaid the debts when his property was sold in May 2018. But 
Mr B didnt think hed been  treated fairly over the matter because he said hed made an 
agreement to pay the third party  which hed then done  so American  Express  shouldnt 
have registered  defaults against  him. American  Express said Mr B hadnt  met the deadlines  
it had set and when payment wasnt received by the final deadline it acted correctly in 
registering defaults. 
So the complaint was brought to us where  an adjudicator said it shouldnt  be upheld.  But as 
Mr B didnt agree it was passed to me to review.
I issued a first provisional decision   in which I said that, while  American Express  had 
treated Mr B positively and sympathetically up to a point, I didnt think  it had taken into 
account Mr Bs agreement with the third party which suggested that he had come to an 
agreement with it within the deadline that was set  so I didnt think  it was right for the 
defaults to remain  on Mr Bs credit file. I did say that I would reconsider my decision if 
American Express could  provide the detail of what happened between Mr B and the third 
party after 29 December 2017. 
Following further submissions, I issued another provisional decision in which  I explained that 
I had changed  my view on the matter.  
I said that, having listened to the conversations Mr B had with the collection agency,  it 
seemed from the discussion on 3 January  2018, that he wasnt looking to set up a 
repayment plan but hoped  to use the sale of a property to repay his outstanding  accounts. 
Further conversations  demonstrated that it wasnt until 29 January 2018,  when  the house 
sale had fallen through, that he agreed to some kind of repayment plan  which was then put 
into place on 16 February 2018.
I also thought  that later conversations  where Mr B wanted to know  how to avoid a default 
being registered  demonstrated  that he was unlikely to be able to maintain a repayment 
plan and thereby  avoid  a default  being  registered. So I concluded that American Express  
didnt act unfairly and was entitled  to take the action  that it took. 
American Express didnt  provide any further  information for me to consider  and said it 
accepted the second  provisional decision. But Mr B didnt agree and made the following 
points in response:
Ref: DRN30522352Hed not had problems obtaining credit  after the defaults were registered. He said he 
hadnt applied  for any credit  but simply assumed there  was little point applying in the 
circumstances. He said he wanted  a resolution to the matter  as soon as possible to 
avoid the stress,  for example, of being  prevented  from renting accommodation. 
American Express told him he wouldnt be defaulted if he made monthly payments 
towards the debt and he did ultimately pay the debt off. 
American Express hadnt kept him up to date with its intentions.  He said hed not 
been aware of the defaults  being  registered until April 2018 and thought  it was clear 
that American Express had decided to register the defaults at the same  time as it 
handed over his accounts to the collection agency.  
American Express hadnt communicated with the agency as he said it was already 
registering the default while he was trying to resolve the issue with the agency. He 
also said the letter that was sent to him on 26 December  2017 was in respect  of the 
credit card and not the other card.  He thought  that demonstrated the lack of clear  
communication and lack of an effective process.
The agency made no mention of the earlier  deadlines  of 10 and 23 January 2018 and 
he was only aware  from the agency,  of a deadline of 31 January 2018, by which  he 
said hed made a payment.  He didnt think the information about  the deadlines was 
received by the agency and felt that had it made him aware of the earlier deadlines  
he would  have  ensured they were  met to avoid defaults being  registered. 
There had been a delay in making the payment whilst a new buyer was found for his 
property. But, in any case, he could have made increased payments from his 
business to the cards  in the meantime.  He said the agency had advised  him that 
there was no end date to the arrangement to pay as long as he agreed to make the 
payments. 
American Express told him to avoid  any default letters so he thought that meant  the 
condition American Express  had stipulated around the deadline should be null and 
void. 
He didnt agree with American Express belief that by not registering the defaults  he 
might subsequently obtain future credit which he might not normally obtain.  He said 
hes credit  record is impeccable,  and he wouldnt enter  into a new credit 
arrangement if he thought  he couldnt  maintain the payments. 
He didnt accept  my premise that he was struggling to maintain payments even after 
the default was recorded.  He said he made  the payments every month until he paid 
off the outstanding debts in May 2018. 
If the agency had made him aware  of American  Expresss deadlines in 
communications with him, he could have avoided  the defaults.  He said he had other 
alternatives to repay the debt but thought  the quickest way to repay  it as one single  
amount was to use some  of the proceeds from the sale of a property.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B has provided an in-depth account of 
the events, as he saw them, relating to the defaults being registered against  him. Ive seen 
the strength  of feeling he has over this matter and hes been consistent in his account.  
He believes that American Express and the collection agency didnt act with transparency in 
the handover of his account from one to the other and failed  to communicate important 
information  particularly around the various deadlines he said existed. He says this meant 
he couldnt take the actions he would have been  prepared  and able to take,  to ensure he 
avoided the defaults.
Ref: DRN30522353Ive seen that, following Mr Bs first approach to it in June 2017 when he was suffering 
financial difficulties, American  Express treated Mr B positively and sympathetically and gave 
him sufficient notice of its intentions. Its letters of 16 August, 12 September  and 
26 December 2017 all explained the position  regarding arrears on both accounts and set out 
what Mr B needed to do to avoid  further action being taken. American Express also clearly 
confirmed when that action would be instigated, which it confirmed when Mr B contacted  it to 
discuss the situation. 
So I think American Express  set out in intentions  with the appropriate  deadlines and 
consequences and was entitled to register the defaults if Mr B was unable to comply with its 
final notice. Mr B says that American Express told him it wouldnt register any defaults  if he 
complied with its requests   so this matter rests on whether Mr B did what  was necessary 
following American Express  last notifications,  which made it clear that Mr B needed to set 
up a repayment  plan within 28 days of that notice to avoid the defaults. 
And I dont  think Mr B did comply  with what American Express had set out as a resolution  
namely to set up the repayment plan within that timescale, so I dont think  that American 
Express acted unfairly  in registering the defaults  and shouldnt  have to remove them.  I say 
that because American  Express  gave Mr B 28 days from its letter of 26 December 2017  to 
set up the repayment plan,  but having listened to the calls between  Mr B and the collection 
agency, I thought  that Mr B only agreed to enter into a repayment plan during the call of 
29 January 2018   which was after the 28-day deadline expired. I thought that in previous 
calls to the agency before 29 January 2018,  Mr B asked for more  time to pay based on using  
funds from the sale of his property  and hadnt agreed to set up the repayment plan.
Mr B, in his submissions,  has primarily said that he wasnt aware of the deadlines and that 
the agency wasnt providing him with the same deadlines as those  which American Express  
was working to. He says he was dealing with the agency at that point, and I would have 
maintained my initial position on this complaint if the evidence showed  that Mr B had agreed 
to set up a repayment  plan within the 28-day deadline given by the final default  notices. 
But Im satisfied that Mr B didnt  agree  that repayment plan until it was clear the sale of his 
property wouldnt be completed  in time and he had to consider an alternative, namely the 
repayment plan.  That agreement was made outside  of the 28-day deadline  that was set out 
in American Express letter of 26 December 2017, so I think American Express was entitled 
to take the action it said it would take and register the defaults.  
. 
Mr B disagreed when  I suggested he may not have been able to avoid a default anyway 
based on his call to the agency  in March 2018   in which he expressed  a concern over 
making that months payment.   I accept that Mr B didnt miss that payment, but in any case,  
American Express had told Mr B, in writing,  when it would register a default if it didnt receive 
payment, either directly or through  the agency.  So, I cant say it did anything wrong when it 
registered the default.
Mr B says he only received one letter  about  the credit card  telling him that he would need  
to need to make payment or risk being  defaulted  in December 2017, and says he wasnt  
aware of a problem  with his other  charge card. But Ive seen evidence  to show  that two 
letters were sent to the same address, with the same  dates,  but which referenced difference  
card numbers. So, Im satisfied that American Express did send the necessary information 
Ref: DRN30522354regarding both accounts. I know Mr B says he didnt receive them both and I dont dispute 
what hes saying. But I think, on balance, that both letters were  sent and so American  
Express fulfilled its obligation in that respect. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3052235