K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about the level of compensation The Prudential Assurance  Company 
Limited (Prudential) has calculated hes due, as a result of it setting  up a second  policy  for 
him instead of simply increasing the premium  on his original plan. He says theres no 
evidence to support  Prudentials  calculation  and hes lost his trust in its administration  of his 
plan.
background 
Mr D took out a retirement annuity  contract with Prudential in 1984.  This type of plan based 
its returns on a guaranteed  basic  annuity,  with bonuses being  added during the plans term 
and at retirement. In February 1990  Mr D agreed to increase his monthly pension premium 
by £20. But as his plan could only be increased  on its anniversary date (October) a new plan 
was set up to accommodate the increase in contributions.
In 1996 Mr D agreed to increase premiums for the second plan by £35 per month and at this 
point Prudential assessed whether the new plan had been suitable for him. It decided to 
remove the additional charges from the second plan so that Mr D wasnt disadvantaged. 
In September  2018 Mr D was reviewing his plans  and decided  to complain about what had 
happened. He said he was disappointed  with the returns from his first policy when compared 
to what hed been shown in the original illustrations. He also didnt understand how hed 
accrued a second policy instead of the increases being applied to his original policy.
Prudential didnt uphold  his complaint about  the overall plan values as it said there  was no 
evidence that hed been given any guarantees about what  hed receive at retirement. But it 
did accept that the plan value might be greater if premiums had been applied to it, instead of 
a second plan, and it agreed  to undertake calculations to ensure Mr D wasnt  disadvantaged  
by having two plans. It said this was because Mr Ds original plan had guarantees that didnt  
apply to the second policy. 
Prudential subsequently carried out the calculation and said that at that particular point the 
original policy would  have  been  worth £10,681.42 more than the second  plan had the 
premiums been paid into that plan instead. It said it would recalculate  the loss when Mr D 
wanted to retire as the value of the funds could go up or down in that time. 
Throughout the next year Mr D entered into further discussion with Prudential  which  involved 
him making  a data subject access request. However, Mr D lost faith in Prudentials  ability  to 
carry out the calculation and wanted it to provide a full breakdown of how it arrived  at the 
final loss figure so that he could have it checked. But Prudential, although it provided some  
further commentary on how it had reached  the final compensation figure, wasnt able to 
provide the information Mr D wanted. So as he remained unhappy Mr D brought his 
complaint to us where he made  the following points:
The quality of the information provided to him under a data subject access request 
was poor. It wasnt in order, was unscheduled, and some of the information  was 
illegible.
He thought the service hed received from Prudential was below standard. He said 
there had been long delays in answering  his requests and Prudentials administration 
was a shambles .
There was agreement  that the additional  premium had been applied to the wrong  
policy but no agreement about  the investment  loss suffered.  He simply wanted a 
Ref: DRN38259752yearly breakdown of how each plan had performed and to see the performance of the 
original plan with the increase in premium  applied. 
He no longer trusted Prudentials calculation that showed  hed lost around £10,000. 
He didnt think it was fair that Prudential could refuse to provide  the breakdown he 
wanted due to commercial sensitivity.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He made the following points:
He was satisfied  with Prudentials explanation of how the two separate plan transfer 
values were calculated  and then compared  in order to work out what  loss Mr D may 
have suffered. He was also satisfied that Prudential would recalculate Mr Ds 
compensation at the time he decided  to draw his pension  plan benefits.
There were  no guarantees  within the terms and conditions of the first plan about the 
amount of pension  Mr D could expect.   He thought Prudential  had honoured its 
promise of a guaranteed basic annuity  within Mr Ds plan, so he thought it hadnt 
done anything  wrong on that matter.
He thought Prudential could have  been  clearer in its explanations  to Mr D and could 
also have responded in a more timely manner. He considered these  issues  had led 
to Mr D losing his trust in the outcome of the calculations and had led him to spend 
longer asking for further, clearer information.  
He thought Prudential ought  to pay Mr D £250  for the distress  and inconvenience 
these matters had caused him.
Prudential agreed  with the assessment and said it would pay £250. But Mr D thought 
Prudential should  have to pay more compensation for the initial  mis- selling of the pension. 
He also thought that all of the growth from the second pension  should been reflected in the 
amount that he was due to be compensated. 
So as no resolution  could be found  the complaints been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find Im in agreement 
with the investigator  and for mainly the same reasons.
The calculation
A company like Prudential  will have carried out numerous calculations like this on previous  
occasions. It has developed the systems,  technical expertise and knowledge to be able to do 
so and we would expect it to carry out such calculations accurately  and fairly.  And some  of 
the information it uses to undertake transfer value comparison calculations  like this one 
involves specific fund,  annuity rate and bonus  rate information which is commercially 
sensitive to Prudential.  
However, while I understand providing  a breakdown of the like Mr D requested is more 
information than Prudential would usually provide to its customers, I would  expect it to be 
able to explain its calculation in a clear, simple  way that Mr D was able to understand and 
would give him some  degree of confidence  that the overall situation  had been taken into 
consideration. Here  Mr D was simply informed  of the amount of loss Prudential  decided  Mr D 
had suffered, along with a statement that confirmed it wasnt Prudentials  practice  to provide 
details of how it carried out the calculation.
Ref: DRN38259753Mr D wanted his son, who is an actuary,  to check the calculation.  So I can understand that in 
the circumstances and with the direct relevance to Mr Ds pension  plans,  Prudential  could 
have done more to help Mr D understand how his final fund values were reached.  
Specifically, it could have  provided the breakdown it has since  provided  to us earlier than it 
did.
Ive carefully considered  the explanation and breakdown that Prudential has provided to us. 
And Im satisfied with what  it has demonstrated  and the method its used to compare  the two 
policies Mr D held, as if the increased premiums  had been applied  to the original policy  
instead. I can see the calculation is quite complex and the two pensions are different in 
composition  with one being purely a fund that reflects the amount of investment and 
growth, while the other is made up of a guaranteed basic annuity  with bonuses  applied. So 
Prudential has had to express the annuity that could have  been  achieved in the first plan as 
a capital value  and then compare it to the fund value  of the second plan. 
But Im satisfied with the method that its used to run several  calculations  so far, which seem 
fair and reasonable. Prudential has said it will recalculate the final loss when Mr D takes  his 
benefits as the fund values can go up and down in the meantime.  Ive no reason to think  that 
final calculation will be incorrect, although  Mr D can raise his concerns again  if he has 
grounds to demonstrate the calculation isnt correct.  
Mr D didnt think that all the growth  from the second  pension was reflected in the 
compensation amount. He thought it was too low  especially compared to the value of the 
first pension which had less paid into it. But as Ive already explained the two plans work 
quite differently and it isnt possible  to compare values in that way. But, in any case  theres 
no evidence to suggest that the premiums werent allocated to each plan accordingly, or that 
the current values  dont reflect the actual  underlying  value of each plan. What Im 
considering here is whether the calculation Prudential has undertaken is correct  and whether 
that means Mr D has suffered a loss from the increased pension  premiums being applied  to 
a new plan instead of his original one. 
Plan performance
Mr D also complained about the overall  performance  of his original plan in so much as its 
value is lower than what  hed been promised  from the original illustration. Because of the 
passage of time Ive not been  able to obtain a copy of that illustration but Ive no reason to 
dispute Mr Ds recollections of what says he was shown. So I can understand why hes now 
disappointed in the returns hes now seeing. 
But I have been  able to look at the policy particulars and brochures that applied to the 
retirement annuity contract.  Ive  also seen  copies of the most recent annual statements. 
What Ive seen is that the plan is described as providing a basic  guaranteed annuity along 
with the addition of yearly bonuses which arent guaranteed. 
Theres no evidence that any of the documentation promised Mr D a guaranteed final 
pension amount, so Mr D doesnt  have a guarantee to use as a benchmark against which he 
can safely say the plan has underperformed.  The basic annuity  which was guaranteed,  is 
set out within the yearly  statements, so I think Prudential has done what it said it would do 
on that basis. 
I appreciate that Mr D is disappointed with the bonuses he has received on his with-profits  
pension plans. Unfortunately a with-profits fund is not immune from economic factors  and 
will be affected by investment conditions. With-profits providers, such as Prudential, have 
Ref: DRN38259754quite a bit of discretion about  how they run their with-profits  fund and the bonuses  rates  they 
apply. Having said that, Prudential cant operate in an arbitrary  manner and is accountable  to 
the industry regulator as to it how it manages its with-profits  funds. But Im not aware  of the 
regulator having expressed any concerns over Prudentials with-profit  fund. 
Poor performance of plans isnt normally a reason for us to uphold  a complaint unless 
theres evidence  that the advice to take out the plan was unsuitable. In this case although 
the general advice  for Mr D to increase his retirement provision wasnt unsuitable,  it has 
been agreed that this should have been done  using  Mr Ds original plan  and not by setting 
up a new one. But Ive addressed that issue already and Ive said that Prudentials method 
for putting things right is fair and reasonable. 
So I cant uphold Mr Ds complaint about  poor performance generally  as that isnt something 
this service would  normally interfere with, as the very nature of investments is that their 
value can go up and down according  to many  factors  which  arent always within Prudentials 
control.
Prudentials Administration 
Mr D has described his service from Prudential as being poor  and he thinks its been  slow 
to respond and hasnt  helped  him to understand the calculations its undertaken. Indeed he 
believes Prudential itself didnt fully understand the calculations it undertook. So Ive 
carefully considered  the events from September 2018 until Mr D brought his complaint to us, 
and I can see that Prudential has been slow to respond on occasions and hasnt necessarily 
provided clear, easy to understand explanations for its actions. I also dont think  it explained  
why it couldnt  provide  the information  Mr D wanted  to check the calculation  as well as it 
could.
All of this led to Mr D losing confidence in Prudential and its actions which  I think  has led to 
him requiring further investigation around the calculation. It seems he simply didnt trust the 
figures. So, like the investigator,  I think Prudential ought to compensate Mr D for the impact  
these matters had on his retirement  planning.  Looking at the level of distress and 
inconvenience I think Mr D has suffered, I agree with the investigator that Prudential  should 
pay Mr D £250, which I think is within the range  of what  Id expect to see for issues  such as 
these.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I uphold  Mr Ds complaint in part.
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited should  pay Mr D £250  for the impact this matter  
has had on his retirement planning. 
It should also calculate the final loss Mr D suffers  when he draws his benefits   using the 
method its confirmed and explained  to us. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38259755
Ref: DRN3825975