K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001. Ms C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Ms C complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. 
Ms C  through  her representative   disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the 
matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the credit card application form that Ms C 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms C so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
 Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms C.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms C about  that. Because  Bank  of Scotland didnt 
tell Ms C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said - including  what  she said about having  good 
employee benefits but this point doesnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN33624132my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3362413