K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that esure  Insurance Limited  didnt  ensure  that full repairs were  
carried out to their car when they made a claim on their motor insurance policy.  
background
After an accident  on 30 June 2018  Mr and Mrs Ds car was repaired by one of esures  
approved repairers  (garage R). Mrs D says when it was returned  there  were  scratches  on 
the car that werent  there before. And a traction control warning  light that shed asked  the 
garage to look at came back  on. Garage R took the car to a dealership garage to assess  the 
issue. It said the problem  wasnt accident-related.  Garage  R carried out a wheel alignment 
as a gesture of goodwill  anyway. That solved the problem. 
Mrs D says that shortly afterwards the car began to make an odd noise. esure paid for the 
dealership garage  to assess  it. It said the right-hand rear axle bolt-hole had been  elongated. 
It said a geometry check should be carried out. esure said the problem wasnt related to the 
accident. Mr and Mrs D believe garage  R caused it, and that the car is unsafe  as a result. 
Mrs D says the warning light still comes on at times and the scratches remain.
One of our investigators  considered Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.  He noted that the scratches  
were shown on the check-in sheet that was completed when garage  R first took the car for 
repair. So he didnt think the garage had caused them. He said garage R hadnt shown that it 
checked the traction warning light. He thought if it had done that and told Mrs D the issue 
wasnt due to the accident it would  have meant  she didnt have to return  the car to it the first 
time. He suggested that esure  should pay Mr and Mrs D £150 for inconvenience. He didnt 
think theyd shown garage R caused the problem with the rear axle bolt-hole.  
Mr and Mrs D had also complained about  the time it took garage R to deal with the car. 
Mrs D said shed been fobbed off and hadnt  had calls returned.  esure  said it couldnt identify 
any delays, and the investigator  noted  that a hire car had been provided  throughout.  He 
didnt think esure or the garage  had acted unreasonably.
In reply to the investigators findings,  esure said the garage re-set  the warning  light when it 
carried out the initial repairs. It wasnt on when the garage did its test drive. And it said 
Mrs D didnt report it coming  on again  for five days after she got the car back. As there was 
no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr and Mrs D have shown that garage  R caused  the scratches on the car. 
I dont think its possible to say for certain what caused the rear axle problem or when  it 
happened. But in my opinion, Mr and Mrs D cant show that garage R caused it. 
The description by the dealership garage  of the axles  bolt-hole  having been elongated 
doesnt sound as though it happened by accident.  esure says it would  have been  done as 
part of a repair, in an attempt to align the axle. And I think  esure made a valid point in saying 
that garage R could  have  charged for repairing an accident-related axle fault. So there  would 
have been no reason  for it to ignore or conceal the issue.  
Ref: DRN34100262Theres no record of the warning light being  dealt  with, but that could simply have been an 
omission. esure says it was done   and it seems the light went  off for a few days. I think  its 
more likely than not that garage R re-set the warning light but didnt record  it. Garage R said 
recently that a traction control warning light (as here)  could not have been set off by a rear 
impact. So it seems the garage knew from the start that the light meant  there was an 
unrelated problem, yet it didnt  tell Mr and Mrs D. When  the re-set  was done,  they assumed 
garage R had fixed  whatever had caused the warning light to appear. When it reappeared, 
garage R still didnt  tell Mr and Mrs D the underlying problem wasnt  accident-related.  Had it 
done so then (or preferably at the outset)  it seems likely it could have been resolved earlier.
We asked esure about the delays Mr and Mrs D had told us about.  esure  said they hadnt 
complained about delays  to it. But it said the second time the car went in for repair it took 
longer than expected. It said that was mainly because the dealership  garage  didnt  have a 
slot available  to diagnose the fault for 18 days, which  was beyond its control. esure said 
Mr and Mrs D were in hire for the whole of the period anyway. And although Mrs D said the 
garage told her it had forgotten about  her car - hence the delay - esure  checked  with the 
garage and it had no record of such a conversation with Mrs D. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs D have shown that esure or garage R acted unreasonably in most 
respects. But I think garage R could have  limited the worry and inconvenience they faced by 
telling them from the start that in its view the warning light didnt show an accident-related 
fault. They could  then have had the underlying problem dealt with at their own expense.  
Mrs D may have  avoided being  alarmed when  the light came  on again  whilst she was 
driving. On balance, I dont think its unreasonable to require esure  to pay Mr and Mrs D 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs D £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my 
decision before  12 January  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3410026