K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the way in which Covea Insurance plc handled a claim she made 
under her home insurance  policy for damage  to her flooring following an escape of water. 
She isnt happy  shes been asked to prove ownership of the flooring  that was damaged.
background
Miss S took out buildings and contents insurance  with Covea in April 2018, which was when 
she purchased her property. On 4 July 2018  she reported that there had been an escape of 
water from leaking radiators  three days earlier. This had caused damage  to the flooring in 
the lounge and two bedrooms.  Miss S said there  was wooden  flooring in the lounge and 
carpets in the bedrooms, which had been laid in May/June. She said she threw  away the 
flooring after it became  damaged.
Miss S arranged her own plumber who discovered a problem with the central heating piping 
system. Extensive plumbing works were carried out and the radiators were replaced. But the 
floor didnt dry as expected so the plumbers attended Miss S property again and found that 
a section of the central heating pipework was open ended, which  was allowing water to 
escape. 
Covea told Miss S there  was no cover under her policy for repairs  to the pipework. But to 
assess the water damage that Miss S property had sustained it asked her to provide a 
cause of damage report from the plumber that attended her property, which included 
photographs of the damage. 
Miss S provided an email to Covea from her plumber  which  briefly explained what had 
happened and the remedial work that had been undertaken. She also sent quotes 
confirming the replacement cost of the flooring. She provided photographs of the flooring 
before it was damaged and the floor boards after the flooring had been  removed.  And she 
also sent Covea  a copy of an advert she placed  when selling a fireplace from the lounge.
Covea rejected what Miss S gave it. Instead,  it asked her to provide a receipt  confirming the 
purchase of the flooring she said had been  damaged by the water  leak. But Covea said it 
didnt receive any images of the damage to the flooring, a receipt  or alternative proof of 
purchase (such as bank  statements) confirming the purchase of the flooring. 
Miss S said she had paid for the flooring  in cash. She also said she wasnt able to obtain 
proof of purchase for the flooring as she didnt have time to speak to the flooring  supplier  
and thought she would be charged  for a replacement  invoice. But Covea told her it would 
need this in order to progress her claim and cover the cost of replacing the damaged  
flooring. It also offered  to reimburse  Miss S if she had to pay for a replacement invoice. 
In August  2018  Covea instructed a buildings inspector, which  Ill refer to as B, to undertake 
an inspection of the damage. B said it was satisfied that there had been leaks  from radiators  
in the rooms Miss S had claimed for. But it couldnt inspect the damaged  flooring as it had 
been removed  and disposed of prior to the inspection taking place. B noted  that the house 
was under renovation; the rooms  were unfinished,  the walls and ceiling hadnt been  
decorated and there was no flooring throughout. It also stated  that there were no gripper 
rods present  which would  have indicated that carpets had been  in place. 
Ref: DRN30755812In view of Bs findings Covea told Miss S that it wasnt able to validate  her claim in the 
absence of evidence  that she had purchased the floor coverings she said were damaged by 
the escape of water.  It said it would accept  a bank statement as proof of purchase if it 
showed the transaction. And it told her that the flooring supplier  Miss S had used would 
provide a duplicate receipt free of charge if she contacted it. 
But Miss S didnt provide proof of ownership to Covea. So, it declined to settle her claim.  
Miss S wasnt happy about this and referred her complaint  to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and didnt uphold this complaint. They thought  Covea was 
entitled to insist on proof of purchase, which Miss S hadnt provided. And they didnt think it 
had done anything wrong in declining her claim in the absence  of that evidence. But Miss S 
didnt agree and asked  for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was an escape of water  in Miss S property. However, theres  a 
disagreement between  Miss S and Covea about the correct outcome of this claim. While 
repairs to pipework isnt covered  by Miss S policy, damage from an escape of water  is. So, 
the crux of this complaint  is whether  Covea  acted reasonably in declining this claim.  In 
determining this issue Ive carefully  considered the evidence from Miss S and Covea.  
Covea told Miss S that she had prejudiced its ability to assess  the claim by having the work 
done and disposing of the damaged  flooring ahead of its inspection.  It said in order  for it to 
cover her claim  for damage it requires proof of ownership for the damaged flooring. It isnt 
prepared to settle her claim without  seeing receipts  for the flooring. But Miss S said she cant  
provide receipts  as she no longer  has them. Its not clear to me why Miss S hasnt obtained 
a copy of her receipt from the flooring supplier.
I can see that Covea  explored alternative ways in which  Miss S could prove ownership of the 
flooring. It told her it would accept  photographs of the damaged flooring or bank statements 
showing its purchase. But Miss S said she isnt able to provide a bank statement showing 
when she bought the flooring or how much she paid for it because  she paid cash. She hasnt 
been able to provide evidence of withdrawal of a large sum of money. So, it isnt possible to 
trace the purchase of the flooring through her bank account or any other source.
Miss S hasnt been able to provide photographs showing the damage to the flooring prior to 
its removal. And when B attended her property the flooring had already been discarded.  So, 
it wasnt able to see the damaged flooring or take photographs of it. 
Miss S has provided a copy of a photograph  of the lounge floor before it was taken up. She 
says this photograph was taken using  her daughters phone  because her phone  was unable  
to take photographs as it was broken  at the time. Having seen this photograph I can see that 
its undated and the condition of the flooring appears to be undamaged. Ive also seen 
photographs of water damage  to floor boards. But these photographs  dont assist here as 
they were taken after the damaged flooring was removed. 
Miss S also provided a copy of an advertisement she placed  when selling a fireplace from 
the lounge area. She says when this fireplace  was removed  it left a large gap where the floor 
wasnt level, which is why she had to replace  the floor that became damaged.  But while  Ive 
Ref: DRN30755813taken into account  what Miss S has said here the advert Ive seen isnt dated. And it doesnt 
prove that the floor in the lounge was replaced.  
Miss S provided quotes for replacement flooring, which were for lower  amounts than the 
price she paid for the damaged flooring. But these quotes arent proof  of purchase of the 
flooring that was damaged.  So, theyre of limited  use here. And Im not persuaded that its 
unreasonable for Covea to refuse to accept these quotes as evidence  of proof of ownership 
given its concerns about her claim.  
Under the terms of Miss S insurance policy Covea is entitled  to ask for evidence from a 
policyholder to prove their claim, including proof  of purchase or photographs of the damaged  
flooring. In circumstances  where it was presented with a claim for damage to flooring  that 
was no longer present I dont think it was unreasonable  for Covea to insist on seeing proof of 
ownership for the flooring.  I appreciate  that Miss S feels this was unfair.  But I think she could 
have obtained  a duplicate receipt. Her flooring supplier told Covea it would provide a copy  
invoice free of charge. 
Im satisfied that Covea  went to some lengths to try and get the evidence  it needed from 
Miss S. It gave  her clear guidance  as to what it would accept as proof  of purchase.  And it 
tried to obtain a duplicate  receipt from the flooring  company  on her behalf. I dont think 
Covea could have  done more to assist Miss S with her claim. 
I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Miss S. But, ultimately  under the terms of 
her policy,  Coveas entitled to refuse to settle the claim if it thinks  she hasnt produced  
sufficient proof of loss. Because Miss S wasnt  able to provide a copy of the receipt  for the 
flooring, proof of ownership or photographs of the damaged flooring Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for Covea to decline her claim. It follows that Im not upholding this complaint. 
If Miss S finds that shes able to produce evidence of ownership in the future she should 
provide that to Covea as it may be able to reconsider  her claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3075581