K820x#14complaint
Mr C and his representative  complain that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) 
didnt explain the difference between an individuals No Claim Discount (NCD) and a 
Named Driver No Claim Discount (NDNCD).
background
Mr C was a named driver  on his wifes Direct  Line motor insurance policy. He says he 
thought the NDNCD  would mean  his NCD was unaffected and would remain in place. But 
when he tried to get insurance in his own name he was told his NCD had expired. He says 
Direct Line didnt make things clear. He wants it to honour his NCD or pay the difference in 
the cost of his premiums  for a new policy.
Direct Line said in its final response  that it asks for written evidence  of a NCD when a new 
policy is taken out. It must be less than two years old or if it was with Direct Line up to three 
years old. Information about  NDNCD and the validity of a NCD is available  online  under the 
FAQ section. As Mr Cs NCD  was more than three years old it couldnt use it. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Its standard practice in the insurance  industry for a NCD to expire if more than two 
years old. But if Direct  Line was the last insurer it accepts a NCD for three years 
although its not obliged to do so.
Mr C and his representative  were unaware that his NCD would expire. But thats  not 
something Direct Line has to make him aware  of. But it does attempt to do so. In the 
online application process for new insurance  it asks how many  years NCD applies 
and explains it must  have been  used  in the last two years.
Direct Lines  website also has an extensive FAQ search  facility  and when searching 
for NCD it explains  the validity of the NCD. 
The policy booklet also explains the difference between  NCD and NDNCD. And it 
makes clear  theres  a distinction between the two discounts, that they arent the 
same and dont offer the same  discounts. Direct Lines website also prominently  
explains the difference between the two and how they work.
Taking everything into account  Direct  Line hasnt  been unfair or misleading in its 
explanation of the discounts. And she cant ask it to do anything  more.
Mr C and his representative  remain unhappy and have asked for an ombudsman  review. 
They say a consumer  wouldnt look at a policy booklet. A letter Mr C received made  it sound  
as if they were the same discounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35400662I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Direct Line wasnt obliged to tell Mr C that his NCD would expire. But this information was 
available on its website  if hed searched for it. And the online application  process highlighted 
that a NCD shouldve been used  in the previous two years. 
The website and policy booklet also explained  the difference  between NCD and NDNCD and 
how these discounts  worked. And theres an example  on the website. 
Mr Cs representative says a normal consumer wouldnt read the policy booklet but Direct 
Line does ask the policy holder to check the details and policy  booklet.  The letters it sends 
out are relevant to the policyholder and any named driver. And if either of them is in any 
doubt as to the terms and conditions of the policy, including the about the differences  
between the NCD  and NDNCD and the way they work, they couldve reasonably  gone online 
or contacted  Direct Line to find out more.
Taking everything into account  I think Direct  Line made sufficient information available  about 
the validity of a NCD, how it differed from the NDNCD and adequately explained the way 
each discount  worked.  Overall I think Direct  Line did enough to reasonably draw all this 
information to Mr Cs attention and make  it accessible to him.
I understand Mr C and his representatives  frustration.  Even  so I dont  think  Direct Line has 
done anything  wrong or that I can fairly or reasonably require it to reinstate Mr Cs NCD or 
pay him any compensation as he and his representative would like.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3540066