complaint
Miss E complains  about loans CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) lent to her. She 
says the loans were  irresponsibly lent.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2019. As I was reaching  different 
conclusions to the adjudicator, I gave both parties  the opportunity to provide further 
comments before reaching a final decision.
In my provisional decision,  which is attached  and forms part of my final decision, I set out a 
detailed background to the complaint. 
Both parties  have now responded to my provisional decision. Miss E has said she has 
nothing further  to add. QuickQuid has disagreed and provided  comments it wants me to 
consider. In summary, QuickQuid has said:
Miss E wasnt experiencing financial difficulties during the lending  as the late 
repayments were for the smaller interest  only payments and she repaid those within 
four days  and fully repaid loan 7 19 days before  it was due to be repaid.
Miss E was offered the available option to make additional payments to reduce the 
large final repayment on loan 9.
Miss E made inroads  on her principal owed by reducing it to £50
There were  gaps  of 1 to 2 months between her lending and this shows  Miss E wasnt  
dependent on these loans.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also carefully  considered QuickQuids 
comments in response  to my provisional  decision.
Having carefully considered QuickQuids further points, my conclusions remain unchanged  
and Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I considered Miss Es overall pattern of lending 
and taking the factors of her lending history all together, she was dependent on these loans. 
With this mind, if Miss E was struggling  to repay  the smaller interest payments on more than 
one occasion,  I think it may have  suggested  that she was in some  difficulty  and this 
shouldve prompted  action from QuickQuid. 
Also, Miss Es pattern of borrowing and repaying loans shouldve concerned QuickQuid. As 
QuickQuid should  be aware that the fact Miss E was repaying the loans  or even repaying 
them early  doesnt  mean  she did so sustainably  or out of her savings/income. And the 
number of loans  over the period suggests  that she needed these  loans to fill gaps in her 
finances over a longer term, something  QuickQuid  on its website says the loans arent  
suitable for. A break in lending of 1 to 2 months  wasnt sufficient to lead QuickQuid to 
reasonably believe  that her circumstances had changed and she was no longer dependent 
on these loans.
Ref: DRN3492935QuickQuid says Miss E could make additional  payments  to reduce her outstanding balance  
but that wasnt a proactive response  to Miss Es circumstances and while  it says Miss E 
wasnt struggling to repay, in her email Miss E asked for a different repayment  structure  
specifically because it made it affordable for her. While  Im not saying that QuickQuid had to 
grant her request, it ought to have realised that the loans in the way they were structured 
may not have been affordable or sustainable  for Miss E. I cant see that it took further steps 
to check that the loan was affordable or sustainable. Instead it lent her another  loan and this 
time with a larger repayment  at the end. I dont think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I can see that Miss E borrowed £50 for loan 10 but I can also see that within a few days  she 
topped-up that loan increasing the outstanding capital  to £150. Miss E kept returning for 
further borrowing   that in my opinion is a dependency on these loans.  In my opinion Miss E 
couldnt make inroads  to repaying  the overall  capital.  From  loans 4 to 11, Miss E borrowed 
an average of around £359 and to access that money she repaid around  £1,715  in interest  
and charges. 
I appreciate my findings will be disappointing  to QuickQuid  but for the reasons stated here 
and in my attached provisional decision, taking together Miss Es overall  history  with 
QuickQuid, some of her loans were  irresponsibly lent. And she has lost out as a result  and 
QuickQuid needs  to put things right.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs  to do
 refund all interest and charges Miss E paid on loans 4 to 7 and loans 9a to 
10 inclusive;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were  paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
 remove  all interest  and charges applied to loan 11 and treat any payments 
Miss E made as capital repayments.  QuickQuid may choose to deduct  
outstanding capital  balance from the settlement,
 the number of these loans means any information recorded about them is adverse.
So all entries  about loans 4 to 7 and 9a to 11 should be removed from Miss Es 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid must  
give Miss E a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint in part and require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3492935Extract from provisional decision
complaint
Miss E complains about a number of loans CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)
lent to her. She has said she was in a debt spiral and couldnt afford the loans.
background
QuickQuid lent 11 loans to Miss E between December 2014  and March 2018.  The loan amounts 
varied from £50 to £650.  From the information QuickQuid has provided, Ive set out some of the 
loans in an appendix at the end of this decision.
Miss E has repaid most of her loans but theres an outstanding balance on the last loan. 
QuickQuid has confirmed that it hasnt sold the debt to a third party  debt collection  agency.
In October  2017, Miss E complained  about all her loans. QuickQuid didnt uphold  any part of her 
complaint. It said it carried out proportionate checks and didnt find that she was dependent on the 
loans.
Miss E remained dissatisfied  with QuickQuids  response and referred  her complaint to this 
service. One of our adjudicators looked into her complaint and thought  QuickQuids checks didnt  
go far enough before it lent any of the loans. Our adjudicator also didnt think  better  checks  
wouldve shown that loans  1 to 4 were unaffordable and so didnt  recommend that the complaint  
about those loans should be upheld. But they thought  Miss E had formed  a
pattern of dependency  by the time she was lent loan 5 and QuickQuid shouldve realised this and 
not lent her loans 5 to 11. QuickQuid disagreed that it had done anything  wrong.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has come to me  an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account  when deciding  Miss Es case.
At the time of Miss Es loans, lenders such as QuickQuid were  regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The FCAs rules expected QuickQuid to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means  that it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make  sure Miss E could repay her loans in a sustainable  manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much was being 
lent, the repayment  amounts  and Miss Es income  and expenditure.  With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender  should  fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish  that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would include 
where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion  of 
their income,
the amount, or amounts,  due to be repaid are higher,
there is a larger number  and/or frequency of loans,
the period of time during which  a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
Ref: DRN3492935There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there are three key questions for me to consider in order 
to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Es complaint. These questions are:
1.  did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Miss E would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks 
have shown  that Miss E would have been able to do so?
2.  taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase  Miss Es indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
3.  did QuickQuid act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  all of these questions and what they mean for Miss Es complaint. 
QuickQuid has said there were breaks between some of the loans and Ive carefully considered 
these breaks  and having  done so, the break between loan 7 and 8 is the only break that I 
consider significant enough  to break the lending  chain. This break effectively split Miss Es 
borrowing over two chains and Ive explained  more  about this below.
did QuickQuid,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionat e checks  to satisfy itself 
that Miss E would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would  those checks  have shown  
that Miss E would have  been able to do so?
QuickQuid has said before lending,  it searched Miss Es credit file, asked her about her income 
and expenses.  It also says it verified  the information about Miss Es credit commitments through 
third party databases and this helped  it work out what her estimated disposable income  (EDI)  was 
before lending each loan.
QuickQuid hasnt provided the results of its searches into Miss Es credit file and as Miss E hasnt 
provided a copy of her credit file either, so I dont know if there  was anything within the file that 
shouldve concerned QuickQuid. From the information I have seen, Miss Es declared income 
varied from £1,300 to £1,500 and her expenses varied  from £625 to £675.
QuickQuid also hasnt  told this service exactly how it worked out the EDI for each of the loans but 
has said the EDI took into account Miss Es short term commitments as well. But without an 
explanation about how these figures were  reached, I cant  take it as read that
they led to a fair lending decision. I should add that the use of industry  recognised  third party  
software doesnt automatically  mean that the lending  decision on Miss Es case was fair.
Ive considered the information QuickQuid gathered and having  done so, I think QuickQuid  
shouldve done more before agreeing to lend any of the loans.
loans 1 to 3
Miss E was due to make  a maximum repayment of around £518 for loan 1, this was a substantial 
amount compared to her declared income of £1,300 and so I think  QuickQuid shouldve wanted to 
know more about her committed monthly outgoings including asking her about any short term 
commitments she had.
I also think similar checks should have been carried  out by QuickQuid  before it agreed to lend 
loans 2 and 3. I accept that the loans were for less than loan 1 but Miss E was borrowing again  
within a short time of repaying  previous  loans and shed rolled over loan 2 and incurred a late fee 
charge. These factors  shouldve concerned QuickQuid enough for it to undertake further checks.
Ref: DRN3492935Miss E has provided  copies of her bank statements and Ive used these  to reconstruct  her 
circumstances at the time of these loans. Im not suggesting that QuickQuid had to request Miss 
Es bank statements before  lending to her and I accept that because something shows up in the 
checks now doesnt necessarily mean it wouldve showed up in checks  QuickQuid may carried out 
at the time. But in the absence of any information from QuickQuid about
what this information is likely to have  shown, I think its reasonable to place significant  weight on the 
available information.
And based on what Ive seen, these three loans were affordable for Miss E. I can see that Miss E 
didnt had any short term credit commitments and based on the information she declared about 
her income  and expenses, she was in a position to sustainably repay these  loans.
loans 8 to 9
There was a gap of around six months in the lending  relationship after Miss E repaid loan 7 and 
when she took out loan 8, Ive carefully  considered this break  and while I think  it was a significant 
break and begins a second lending chain, QuickQuid shouldve taken  it checks  further before 
lending loan 8. I say this because although  QuickQuid  mightve reasonably believed that Miss E 
wasnt dependent on these  loans,  her history shouldve  concerned QuickQuid. Miss E had rolled 
over loan 2, and had defaulted in the repayment of loans 6 and
7  for both those loans she incurred late fee charges.Also before loan 8, shed borrowed from 
QuickQuid for nearly two years.And  so when  she applied  for loans 8 and 9, it shouldve been 
looking to build a clear  picture of Miss Es financial  circumstances.
Having considered  Miss Es circumstances at the time of these loans, it appears she was in a 
position to sustainably repay them.
So Im not intending to uphold Miss Es complaint  about loans 1 to 3, 8 and 9 because  although 
I think QuickQuid shouldve done more  before lending those loans,  I think appropriate  checks 
would likely have shown that Miss E could  sustainably  afford  to repay those  loans.
loans 4 to 7, loans 9a to 11
For these  loans I dont think the checks QuickQuid did went far enough. But, I havent recreated 
individual, proportionate affordability  checks  for loans 4 to 7 and loans  9a to 11 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case in the next section.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern  of 
lending increase Miss Es indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending to see if there was a point at which  QuickQuid should  
reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so 
QuickQuid shouldve  realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further lending.  Given  the 
particular circumstances of Miss Es case, I think that this point  was reached by loan 4 in the first 
lending chain  and by loan 9a in the second lending chain.
I say this because the amounts Miss E was borrowing  were generally increasing, and QuickQuid 
ought to have  realised it was likely her indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. I can see 
that by the time she was borrowing  loan 4, shed  been borrowing from QuickQuid continuously 
for around 10 months.
Ref: DRN3492935Miss E wasnt  making  any real inroads to the amount  she owed QuickQuid,  and was in effect paying  
large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period.  Miss E was effectively 
borrowing for around two years from the time she took loan 1 to the time she repaid loan 7. I think  
this was such  a long period  of time that QuickQuid shouldve been concerned  about whether Miss E 
was using  the loans for their intended purpose or to cover a temporary cash flow problems. 
QuickQuid on its website says its loans arent suitable for long term use.
Miss E was demonstrating  steady repayment difficulties from loan 6 and she told QuickQuid that the 
structure of loan 9 made it difficult for her to afford the repayments and asked for a different  
structure of equal monthly repayments. QuickQuid  declined this and went on to lend her loan 9a on 
a similar  payment structure but this time with a larger balloon repayment.
I think from the point  Miss E raised some concerns about  her ability  to repay, it wasnt reasonable 
for QuickQuid to continue to lend to her especially  as it didnt adjust the payment structure in a way 
that made it affordable for her, instead, it left this to Miss E to figure  out herself.
I think Miss E had established a pattern of dependency on these  loans  by loans 4, and by loan 
9a further borrowing was harmful. This is borne out by the fact that Miss E has now been unable 
to repay  the last loan.
I think that Miss E lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loans 4 to 7 
and loans 9a to 11 because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Es indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  over an extended period of time,
the sheer  number of loans (loans  and deferrals)  was likely to have had negative  
implications on Miss Es ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  
for these high-cost loans.
So Im intending to uphold Miss Es complaint  about loans 4 to 7 and 9a to 11 because the overall 
pattern of lending increased her indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful and she lost out as a result.
I should add Ive considered the additional points QuickQuid made in response to the 
adjudicators recommendation. In summary QuickQuid says it carried  out proportionate checks 
for all loans. It also said that the FCAs rulebook (CONC) contains provisions  for responsible 
lending and that it isnt possible to say whether the lending was irresponsible without looking  at 
the affordability of each individual  loan. It says the adjudicators view constitutes  unauthorised 
rulemaking as it suggests  CONC restricts lending  to a specific number  of loans.
Im not persuaded  by this argument. QuickQuid will (or ought to) know from previous  decisions that 
this service considers there will be times when the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate  
that a consumer is likely  be in financial  difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed  should relending 
continue. So it follows that successful repayment  of a loan doesnt automatically mean  it was 
repaid sustainably.
Before the FCA became the regulator for these  loans, they were  regulated by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT)  and the relevant guidance included  the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG). The ILG stated at paragraph  6.25 that deceptive and/or unfair practices included,  
Repeatedly refinancing (or rolling over) a borrowers existing credit commitment for a short-term 
credit product in a way that is unsustainable or otherwise harmful and that this would include a 
creditor allowing a borrower to sequentially enter into a number of separate agreements  for short-
term loan products, one after another, where the overall  effect is to increase the borrowers 
indebtedness in an unsustainable manner.
Ref: DRN3492935I think the above paragraph  of ILG remains relevant and CONC referred  back to this particular 
paragraph (see CONC 6.7.21-22G). I also note that the regulator,  in a recent relevant open letter, 
noted there were  two key ways in which  consumers in the high-cost short-term  credit market 
could be harmed  the first of which was a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic 
of unsustainable lending patterns.1
So I think the relevant  rules,  regulations and guidance at the time the loans were approved  mean its 
fair for me to consider  whether the pattern of lending should have concerned QuickQuid that further 
lending in the instances Ive referred  to above were likely  to be unsustainable and otherwise harmful 
for Miss E. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I think the relevant  points arose  in Miss Es 
case when she applied for loan 4 in the first chain and loan 9a in the second chain.
Did QuickQui d act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully  thought about  everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that 
leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Miss E in some other way.
1 FCA. Portfolio  Strategy  Letter to firms providing  high cost lending  products
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/correspondence/portfolio-letter-firms-high-cost-lending.pdf
Ref: DRN3492935appendix
Loans with numbers and letters represent top-ups where there  was additional borrowing on the 
original principal.
loan 
number date taken amount (£)date 
repaidhighest  
repayment 
(£)
1 15/12/14 400 06/02/15 518.02
2 27/02/15 50 06/05/15 63.20
3 19/05/15 200 28/08/15 240.32
4 08/10/15 350 31/12/15 436.80
5 10/01/16 400 31/03/16 499.20
6 23/04/16 100 06/07/16 127.36
7 05/09/16 400 11/11/16 496
six month break
8 10/05/17 150 30/06/17 186
9
9a10/07/17
01/09/17450
200 31/10/17554.40
816.40
10
10a26/11/17
05/12/1750
100 31/01/1863.20
182.40
11 09/02/18 350 outstanding 431.20
Ref: DRN3492935