K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that The Dexter Partnership  didnt advise her properly when  she took out 
an annuity.
background
Miss G had a pension with pension provider  S. In 2006 she converted  her pension into a 
tax free lump sum and an annuity, also with S. But she says her adviser, working  for 
The Dexter  Partnership,  didnt advise her properly meaning she didnt have the opportunity  
to benefit from an enhanced  annuity.  
The Dexter  Partnership says it didnt advise Miss G. It says it did advise Miss G in the run-up 
to her retirement but it ultimately told her that she was too young to take her pension 
benefits. It says Miss G then went to S of her own accord to arrange the annuity. So it 
doesnt think its responsible for the annuity  sale.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Gs complaint. He thought there  was sufficient evidence to 
show The Dexter Partnership  did advise Miss G on her annuity options. And because Miss G 
had health problems at that time,  and was a smoker, our investigator thought it likely  that 
she should have  been advised to take an enhanced annuity. 
The Dexter  Partnership asked for an ombudsman to review  everything again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision is to uphold 
Miss Gs complaint. 
In April 2006, Miss G signed a letter of appointment appointing The Dexter Partnership as 
her financial  adviser. This letter was forwarded  on to S by The Dexter  Partnership shortly 
after. The Dexter Partnership  was then in regular  contact with S regarding Miss Gs policy.  
And I can see that fund values and annuity  quotes  were requested on Miss Gs behalf by 
The Dexter  Partnership on 9 May, 17 August, 18 August and 22 August. On 24 August, 
Miss G called S about her annuity.  S sent Miss G a letter  the same day confirming that her 
tax free lump sum and annuity were about to be paid. Miss Gs building  society statement 
shows that the lump  sum was paid on 30 August.
Its clear,  therefore, that The Dexter  Partnership  was acting as Miss Gs financial adviser in 
the run-up to her retirement (and close  to her retirement too). It was also gathering annuity 
quotes on her behalf during this period as well. And Ss annuity  quotes, and letter  confirming 
payment, contained  statements outlining the amount of commission  payable to 
The Dexter  Partnership under the heading  How much will the advice  cost? I think  all this 
suggests The Dexter  Partnership did advise Miss G on her annuity.
Against this, The Dexter  Partnership has argued  that it was advising Miss G but it, ultimately, 
advised her against  taking  her retirement benefits because it thought she was too young to 
do so. It says Miss G went ahead anyway, contacting  S of her own accord. It also makes the 
point that it wouldnt  have advised Miss G without going through  all her potential options, 
including those relating to enhanced annuities.
Ref: DRN34450502The Dexter  Partnerships version of events is plausible. After  all, it would have been unusual  
for Miss G to contact  S if The Dexter Partnership  was handling the annuity,  especially as 
contact previously had been through The Dexter  Partnership.  Miss G has provided us with a 
number of documents, but nothing relating to advice   which  might suggest  no advice was 
given. And being  appointed as an adviser,  obtaining  annuity quotes and being paid 
commission doesnt necessarily mean  advice was provided in relation to the annuity  that 
was ultimately purchased.  So Ive given its arguments careful  consideration. 
However, there isnt much evidence to support what The Dexter Partnership  has said.  For 
example, its notes from the time would help shed light on the advice it gave and whether it 
advised Miss G against early retirement.  Unfortunately, for good reasons, these notes are no 
longer available. Likewise, Miss Gs call to S on 24 August may have shown Miss G was 
acting unilaterally,  and may have shown she was given information about enhanced 
annuities. This call isnt available either.  Again,  this is for good reasons  businesses rarely 
keep recordings indefinitely. But I trust The Dexter Partnership appreciates why the lack of 
supporting evidence does weaken its case  especially given that there  is evidence  to 
support Miss Gs position. Thats not to discount what  it has said.  As I said before, Ive 
carefully considered  its comments and I think they are plausible.  But, on balance and taking 
into account the available evidence, Im satisfied Miss G was advised about  her annuity. 
Given what Miss G has told us about  her health, and about being a smoker, I think its 
possible she would have  been able to get an enhanced annuity.  And I think  its reasonable 
to conclude she would have chosen  to take an enhanced annuity if the rate was better and 
shed been better advised  about  her options. It follows  that I uphold  Miss Gs complaint.
putting things right
The Dexter  Partnership should  review  Miss Gs health and lifestyle at the time she took her 
annuity, and establish whether she would have qualified for an enhanced annuity rate via the 
open market.  If this is found to be the case,  The Dexter Partnership  should put Miss G back 
in the position she would  have been in had she been properly advised about her options. To 
achieve this The Dexter Partnership should compensate Miss G for any past and future  loss:
past loss
The Dexter  Partnership should  calculate  the net annuity Miss G would have received from 
an average of the open market enhanced annuity rates  based  on her circumstances.  This 
should be in the same format (in relation to any spouses pension and escalation  for 
example) as the existing annuity. It should  compare this with what Miss G is actually 
receiving each month. If there is a loss roll up the differences  in the amounts each month  to 
the date of settlement together with 8% per year simple interest from the date each payment 
would have been made. Any interest payable should  be subject to a deduction for income  
tax payable. 
future loss
The Dexter  Partnership should  increase Miss Gs existing annuity to the level it would have 
been had she qualified for the higher average  rate on the open market   as identified  above. 
If this isnt possible, The Dexter Partnership should  establish the current  cost of buying an 
annuity to cover this difference, and pay that amount to Miss G. The amount paid here may 
be reduced to allow  for the rate of income tax Miss G will pay on her annuity  income.
Ref: DRN34450503If Miss G could  have obtained  a higher  annuity rate, The Dexter Partnership  should pay her 
£200 for the upset caused by its failure  to provide suitable advice on her annuity options. 
However, this should not be paid if it is found  that there was no loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Gs complaint. The Dexter Partnership  
should pay Miss G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3445050