K820x#14Complaint
Ms N, acting on behalf of her limited company, Company C, complains that American 
Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) reversed a refund it had applied  for a chargeback 
claim without  notice.
Background
Ms N says that in October 2017 she used her company Amex card to acquire a trunk  from 
overseas. She says that when  the trunk arrived it was in poor condition with mould and 
damage. She tried to return  the trunk to the seller but it refused so she made  a claim with 
Amex. She says that the payment for the trunk (over £10,000)  was refunded  and she asked 
if she needed to do anything else. She says Amex said to wait until the case  was closed 
before selling or repairing  the trunk. Ms N says that Amex's website said cases  close within 
three months.
Ms N says that as well as the cost of the trunk she paid around £2,500 in taxes and 
transportation costs.  She says that she wasn't kept updated by Amex after the refund was 
applied and the case was closed in April 2018.  At this point she says she decided  to sell the 
trunk to try to recover the additional costs she had incurred in taxes and transportation.
In June 2018, eight months after acquiring the trunk, she says she logged on to her account 
and found that the cost of the trunk had been re-debited. She contacted Amex  and says it 
hasn't explained why the case was reopened.
Ms N says the issues with this refund  have caused  her distress and inconvenience. She also 
says that her other accounts  were  blocked despite  there being no outstanding payments due 
on these and that this has caused cash flow issues with her other business.
Amex says that Ms N initiated the chargeback online on 24 October 2017 and an 
acknowledgment was sent. It says that two further  emails were sent with an estimated 
closure timeframe of 18 or 19 December but it was set out that this was only an estimate and 
that the timing  could  change. They say that between December 2017  and June 2018  they 
were communicating with the supplier. They say the supplier responded within the required 
timeframe.
Amex says that the rebilling was correct and that this can happen after 90 days from the 
credit being  provided  in certain cases.  They say in this case  the supplier  provided  sufficient 
evidence and so the account  was rebilled. Amex noted that the complaint was from a 
business and that the chargeback scheme is a voluntary  scheme. They also said that the 
trunk had been sold and so it couldn't seek a potential refund from the supplier.
Our investigator noted that Ms N had raised a complaint on behalf of her limited company. 
Because of this she said a complaint couldn't be brought under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. She also noted that the complaint fell outside the remit for American Express' 
Purchase Protection and Refund  Protection.
Our investigator said that Amex had raised  a chargeback request and had pursued  this but 
the supplier defended the claim. She thought that Amex could have provided a clearer 
explanation of the basis on which it would  try to help and about what  to expect through a 
chargeback. She also thought it could have  done  more to keep Ms N informed while  the 
process was ongoing.
Ref: DRN31780742Because Ms N wasn't provided with the information  our investigator thought she should  have  
been, she recommended  that it should  pay £150 for the inconvenience caused.  She noted  
that as the complaint was from a limited company, compensation for distress  wasn't  
appropriate. Our investigator said that she couldn't say that Amex had to refund the amount 
Ms N paid.
Ms N didn't  accept our investigator's  view.  She said that Amex provided  false  information 
which she acted on by selling the trunk. She said she followed all the steps  asked of her and 
only sold the trunk once  the case was closed.  She said the credit card used for the purchase 
was a business card but was set up with her personal information  and that the issues on this 
card affected  her other  cards. She said she has been caused distress because  of the issues.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the complaint  related to goods  not being  of satisfactory quality.  In this case  due to 
how the goods were  purchased, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act didnt apply;
based on the information provided, neither of Amex's refund or purchase  protection 
schemes were applicable in this case;
Ms N raised a chargeback claim on behalf of Company C. The chargeback scheme 
is a voluntary scheme and it doesn't mean that the card operator accepts liability 
from the supplier;
Amex started the chargeback process following the claim from Company C and 
applied a temporary refund to the account. This was reasonable;
Ms N was sent information saying that the estimated resolution date for the claim 
was December 2017. The communication made it clear  that the date was only an 
estimate and could change subject to the investigation;
Amex contacted the supplier regarding the claim  and the supplier defended the case. 
Communication was ongoing for a number of months. The supplier didn't provide a 
refund and did provide evidence to support its case;
Amex provided information showing its process  for rebilling a consumer after 90 days  
(from the credit  being  provided). Amex said that the merchant documents received 
were deemed to be sufficient, and so it followed its rebilling process; 
based on the evidence I didnt find I had enough to say Amex acted unfairly by 
reversing the refund it had previously applied;
Ms N explained that she relied  on the status  showing on her online banking,  (which 
showed the investigation was closed due to incomplete set up) however I didnt find 
that it was reasonable for Ms N to conclude that the case had been closed in her 
favour;
Ref: DRN31780743the reversal of the chargeback temporary  credit caused some  inconvenience with 
Ms N's cash flow. However,  as I didnt find that Amex did anything wrong in the 
actions it took I didnt find that I could hold it responsible for this.
Ms N didnt accept my provisional  decision. She said the business chargecard  advertised the 
chargeback and purchase and refund protection schemes and so she paid the annual  
charge for the card. She provided a screenshot from her account which  she says showed  
the case as closed and she sold the trunk because she thought  her claim had been  settled. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms N is upset that the trunk Company C acquired wasnt  of the quality 
she expected.  However,  this case is against AMEX and so I have  to consider the actions it 
took and whether these were fair and reasonable. When  the chargeback claim was raised, 
AMEX applied a temporary refund to the account  and started an investigation. I find this was 
reasonable. 
Unfortunately due to the circumstances of this case the investigation was ongoing  for a 
number of months. I can see that Ms N wasnt kept updated  about this and that the 
estimated resolution  date passed. However as the resolution date was an estimate I cannot 
say this could  be relied  on. 
Ms N has provided the screenshot  of her account.  This shows the claim and I can see it says 
closed. However in the additional information the status says it was closed due to incomplete 
set up and there is no date recorded for the expected resolution date. So while I can 
understand why Ms N took the action she did to try to cover her costs, I do not find that 
based on the information there was enough  for Ms N to conclude the case  had been closed.
Even accepting that Ms N believed the case was closed,  I do not find that I can say AMEX 
did anything wrong  by the actions it took.  I say this because the chargeback scheme is a 
voluntary scheme  and it does not mean that AMEX accepts liability  from the supplier. We do 
expect it to carry out a reasonable  investigation into the claim and follow its normal process. 
In this case this appears to have happened. The case was ongoing for a number of months  
and AMEX has provided evidence to show its policy for reversals that take place after 90 
days. It has also explained that sufficient  evidence was provided by the supplier. Therefore I 
do not find that I can say the actions it took were unreasonable and so I do not find that I can 
require it to do anything  further in regard  to the chargeback claim.
I understand that this decision will be a disappointment to Ms N but I do not find that I have 
enough evidence  to say that AMEX did anything wrong by reversing the temporary  credit  it 
applied following the chargeback claim.
Ref: DRN31780744My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N, on behalf  of 
Company C, to accept  or reject my decision before  12 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3178074