K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold  them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs L in 1994. The PPI protected  
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage repayments in the event Mr L couldnt work as a result  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
view. Mr and Mrs L mainly  complain that Mr Ls sick pay benefits  from his employer meant 
they didnt need PPI  particularly as Mrs L was in paid employment as well. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case. Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Normally, Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs L from when the PPI was taken out. 
I dont think thats  surprising. This mortgage  account  closed over 20 years  ago. I wouldnt 
expect Nationwide  to keep records about  a closed account for so long. And it wouldnt be 
reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs L remember about the sale after all this time.  
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment due to run for many years. Their home 
couldve been at risk if the mortgage  monthly repayments werent made in full and on time. 
I think its likely that protecting their mortgage  repayments in the event of unexpected 
accident, sickness or unemployment wouldve been an important  consideration for 
Mr and Mrs L at the time. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that they decided  they wanted  to have the benefits the 
policy offered them  and they chose  to buy the policy to cover Mr L. 
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs L to take out the policy. But it still had to make sure it 
told them  enough  about the policy for them to decide if they wanted  to buy it. Overall, I think  
Nationwide probably  did give them  enough clear information - and where it mightnt have 
done, better information wouldnt  have  made  a difference.  
I say this because  it seems to me that Mr and Mrs L couldve benefitted from having this 
cover. Mr L was eligible for the policy. Ive taken  into account that Mr L told us he could  rely 
on getting full pay for up to 6 months if he was off work sick. The policy  wouldve paid out on 
top of this and for longer - up to 24 months  for a successful accident or sickness  claim. 
And it wouldve also paid out if Mr L became unexpectedly unemployed and was out of work.  
Ref: DRN36933722Mr and Mrs L havent mentioned any significant other means they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. Although Mrs L had a job as well, the mortgage was based  on both 
Mr and Mrs L being in paid work. So I think its likely they mightve soon faced some money 
problems if Mr L couldnt work  especially  after he stopped  receiving full sick pay from his 
employer.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  when they took out their mortgage, I think the 
policy couldve been useful to them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr L wouldve  been 
affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits. So, I dont think having 
more information  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put them off taking it out.
Its possible information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But on balance, while I do understand their concerns,  I think Nationwide 
gave Mr and Mrs L enough information  to be able to decide if they wanted the benefits the 
policy offered them.  They chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to and so it 
appears to me they did want to have this type of cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
monthly premiums they paid for the policy were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L. 
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs L wouldve made a different decision if 
clearer information had been provided. So I cant see that theyve lost out as a result  of 
anything Nationwide  mightve done wrong.  This means that Nationwide  isnt required to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3693372