K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc will not refund him £1500  disputed 
transactions taken  from his account. And theyve also have closed his account without giving 
any reason. He would  like his money refunded and the account  reinstated.
Background
Mr G had an account with NatWest.
Sometime in 2018 Mr G lost his bank card. Between April and September 2018, he didnt 
use his card.
In September  2018 Mr G ordered a new card and PIN. The bank says the card and PIN 
were dispatched  separately  by first class post to his home address on the 
20 and 21 September  2018. Mr G says the card never arrived  at his house. He said he had 
previously had issues with not receiving post, so he didnt think anything  more of it.
On 24 September  2018 Mr G received  £1500  into his account. He says this money was lent 
to him by a friend as he was in financial difficulties.
Following this deposit into his account  the money was withdrawn via cash machines during 
the early hours at cash machines  on the 24, 25 and 26 September  2018. Each time £500 
was withdrawn from the cash machine.
Mr G said he became  aware of the disputed ATM  withdrawals  when he received a text from 
the bank saying his account balance was zero.
Mr G contacted the bank  by phone on the 27 September 2018 to report the fraud.  As he 
hadnt received  the card sent by the bank  on the 21 September  that card was marked  as 
stolen.
The bank investigated the fraud and decided they wouldnt  refund the money.  They also 
gave Mr G 14 days notice to close his account.
Mr G raised a complaint  and asked the bank  to reconsider  their decision. NatWest  confirmed  
they would  not be refunding Mr G and the account would close  after 14 days.
Mr G was unhappy with NatWests response, so he referred the matter  to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said NatWest had acted fairly in not 
refunding Mr G. She thought it was likely Mr G or someone known to him had authorised the 
transactions because  a third party wouldnt have known the money  was coming  into the 
account and when. She thought an unknown third party would have needed to know  a new 
card and PIN was due to arrive and been  able to intercept the post on two occasions. The 
disputed transactions  took place in the evening and it would be unlikely a third party  would 
wait until the evening to use a card and PIN they had intercepted earlier  in the day.
As Mr G didnt  agree with the investigators view the matter has come to me for decision.
Ref: DRN30152642My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am minded to reach a 
similar conclusion  as that reached by the investigator but I wanted to expand  on the reasons 
and address Mr Gs complaint regarding the closure  of his account.
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr G liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not, he made or authorised  them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence Mr Gs genuine card and PIN were  used  to 
make the disputed transactions. But the regulations  relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own enough to enable NatWest to hold Mr G liable. So, I also need  to think  about  whether 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr G consented to the withdrawals being 
made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude  Mr G authorised 
the transactions. I say this because:
Mr G ordered a new card and PIN which was dispatched on 
20 and 21 September  2018. Mr G has said he didnt  receive  the card or PIN. He has 
told us he lives at home with his mother and younger sister and no one else visits the 
home. The post box used in his flat is not communal. Although Mr G has said post 
goes missing all the time, given what he has told us about  his living arrangements,  I 
think its unlikely a third-party fraudster was able to intercept Mr Gs post on two 
separate occasions to get the new card and PIN. Mr G hasnt given us a plausible  
explanation as to how the Card and PIN were intercepted.
Mr G has said he was in financial difficulties, so it seems  surprising  he wasnt more  
concerned about his card and PIN not arriving especially as he was expecting  a large 
payment into the account.
Mr G has said he doesnt use the account much and I have seen evidence to show  
he carried out very few transactions  in the account from April 2018.  He also said he 
had misplaced his card at that point. Given this, its unfortunate  that an unknown  
fraudster would  choose the day a large  payment was going to be deposited into his 
account to carry out this fraud.
The payment  into the account came in on 24 September  at 2.30 am. The first 
withdrawal was at 11.51 pm that evening.  If the post had been intercepted  by a third 
party as Mr G suggests, I find it unlikely  the fraudster would wait to withdraw the 
money until very late in the evening when they had the card and PIN available earlier  
in the day. As it would risk Mr G having  spent the money or moving it to another  
account.
I also think its unlikely a fraudster  having  intercepted the card and PIN wouldnt 
immediately carry out a balance enquiry on the account to check the funds available. 
The evidence shows the first balance enquiry was on 24 September at 11.50.45 pm, 
25 seconds before the first withdrawal of £500.
Ref: DRN30152643The balance was checked four times  on 26 September before the last £500 was 
taken out at 2.37 am. The balance enquiries are at different ATM machines. I dont 
think a fraudster would  delay  taking money out once they had checked  the balance  
and go to a different  cash machine to check the balance again and then withdraw the 
money.
Based on everything  Ive seen I think its fair and reasonable  for NatWest to refuse  to refund 
the disputed cash  withdrawals because overall,  I think its more  likely than not Mr G made 
the transactions he disputes.
Account closure
Mr G received a letter from NatWest on 29 September 2018  giving him 14 days notice of the 
closure of his account.
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Gs account say NatWest could close  the account with 
immediate effect  in certain  circumstances. The terms and conditions say:
7.1 Closure by us
7.1.1 We can close your account immediately if:
(a) we reasonably suspect that you have given us false information;
(b) we reasonably suspect that your account is being used for an illegal purpose;
(c) you behave in a threatening  or violent manner  towards our staff;  or
(d) you were not entitled to open  your account.
7.1.2 We can also close your account by giving you not less than 60 days  notice before we 
close your account.
Looking at the evidence provided by NatWest I am satisfied they were following the terms 
and conditions to close the account with immediate effect.
Whilst Mr G mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, NatWest isnt required 
to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant  say NatWest has done  
anything wrong  by not giving Mr G this information   as much as hed like to know.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr G and I understand  the closure of Mr Gs account 
caused him inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers  
banking services to. They  cant unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can decide 
they no longer  wish to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the 
commercial freedom to decide whod they like to contract with. And Im satisfied  that in 
Mr Gs case NatWest exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close  
his accounts.  So, I cant fairly and reasonably  say NatWest have done anything  wrong  here.
In summary  looking at the evidence I find it more likely than not Mr G made the transactions 
he disputes. I have  gone on to consider NatWests  closure of Mr Gs account and I am 
Ref: DRN30152644satisfied NatWest acted  fairly when  they decided to close the account. It follows I will not be 
asking NatWest to do anything.
So subject to any further representations from Mr G and NatWest I was minded  to reject the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr G nor NatWest have made any further comments to my provisional decision.
My findings
Although Mr G and NatWest have not provided  any further comments,  I have nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have seen nothing to change  my mind 
and so my provisional  findings stand.
My final decision
My decision  is that I reject  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3015264