K822xcomplaint
The estate  of the late Mr M, and Mrs M complain  about Aviva Insurance Limiteds  decision to 
decline part of a travel  insurance claim. 
background 
Mr and Mrs M held a travel insurance policy as a benefit of their bank account. The policy  
was provided by Aviva.
Mr and Mrs M booked  a holiday but, the month  before they were due to travel, Mr M visited  
his GP. Mr M was referred for an ultrasound  and, after that, was referred for a CT scan.
Mr and Mrs M paid the final payment due for their holiday but, unfortunately, Mr M was 
diagnosed with cancer the following day. Mr and Mrs M were advised to cancel their 
upcoming trip so they made a claim for the cost of doing so under their policy with Aviva. 
Aviva reimbursed Mr and Mrs M for the first three instalments theyd paid for their holiday but 
said any payments made after Mr M had visited his GP werent  covered  under the policy.  
When Mr and Mrs M complained, Aviva said Mr M hadnt declared certain medical  conditions  
to it. Mr and Mrs M replied  to say Mr M had never  been diagnosed with either  of the 
conditions Aviva mentioned and that Mr M hadnt  been diagnosed with cancer until after the 
final payment due for the holiday had been  made.  Mr and Mrs M asked that Aviva 
communicate with a representative on their behalf going forward. 
Aviva sent a final response letter directly to Mrs M, relying on the same policy term it had 
quoted previously and saying Mr M should have told it he was under investigation for an 
undiagnosed condition.
Following further correspondence with Mr and Mrs Ms representative, Aviva sent another  
letter clarifying why the final payment for the holiday wasnt covered  under the policy.  This 
letter referred to a different policy term than the one Aviva had quoted previously.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs Ms representative brought their complaint to our service. Sadly, Mr M 
has passed away since then. 
 
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had acted unfairly  by refusing to reimburse Mr and Mrs M 
for the final payment theyd made for their holiday. But she didnt think  Aviva  had handled  
the claim well, so she recommended  that Aviva should pay £150 compensation in 
recognition of this. 
Aviva accepted our investigators recommendations but Mr and Mrs Ms representative 
didnt, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the sad circumstances surrounding this claim and Id like to offer 
Mrs M and her family  my sincere condolences for their loss. 
Ref: DRN36405812Ive reviewed all of the information to decide  whether  I think the remainder of Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim is covered under  their policy. I dont think it is, and I dont think  Aviva has been  unfair  
or unreasonable in refusing to pay the balance  of their claim. I hope my explanation is 
helpful to Mrs M and her representative in understanding why. 
The key facts information about Mr and Mrs Ms policy  is set out on page 8 of their policy 
documentation under  the heading Section 1  Policy Summary. This says:
Pre-existing medical conditions  important declarations you need  to make
Between booking  a trip and paying  any balance or the departure  date (whichever is 
later), you must call the Medical  Risk Assessment helpline if any insured  
personhas been referred to a Consultant/Specialist, or has been  admitted to 
hospital. Cancellation cover will apply, however, if you still wish to travel, the Medical 
Risk Assessment team will advise of cover will apply while  on the trip. 
The full medical  declaration conditions  which are applicable are set out at page 23 of Mr and 
Mrs Ms policy. These are numbered 1-4. Section 1 refers to medical issues experienced by 
the policyholder  before  booking a trip and section  3 refers to the health of a close  relative  or 
travelling companion. These sections arent  relevant to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim, but sections 2 and 4 are. These say: 
2. If, between booking a trip and the departure  date, you are referred to a 
Consultant/Specialist, or have been admitted to a hospital, your policy will cover  you 
for cancellation of your trip.
Please note, however, that if you still wish to travel  you must call the Medical  Risk 
Assessment helpline  immediately
4. If you, or anyone upon whose good  health  your  trip depends,  is referred to a 
Consultant/Specialist, or is admitted  to a hospital,  after you have booked  your trip 
but prior to paying any final balance due for your trip, you must call the Medical Risk 
Assessment helpline  immediately. We will advise you if you will be covered for 
claims relating to this condition. 
Please note, if you do not do this, it will affect  your claim  if you have to cancel your 
trip before the departure date. 
 
Terms like these  are common  in most, if not all travel insurance  policies like the one Mr and 
Mrs M held.  I think these  terms  are highlighted in the policy summary and are clearly set out 
within Mr and Mrs Ms policy. I dont think the wording used is ambiguous  or misleading. 
I wouldnt think its fair or reasonable to expect  a policyholder to notify an insurer about  every 
change to their health - for example, a routine doctors visit or the diagnosis  of a relatively  
minor one-off medical condition. But if a policyholder  experiences  a significant change  in 
their health  after booking a holiday which fundamentally alters  the risk which the insurer  has 
agreed to cover, its reasonable to expect a policyholder to tell the insurer  about  this. The 
insurer may then be entitled  to change the terms on which it is prepared to continue with 
cover, subject to certain conditions. 
Ref: DRN36405813Aviva has decided that a referral to a consultant or specialist after booking a trip is 
something it wants to know about, and has set this out in its policy terms and conditions.  I 
dont think Aviva has applied these policy terms to the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim in an unfair or unreasonable way. 
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs Ms representative has told us about  the 
circumstances surrounding  Mr Ms illness and his eventual diagnosis.  Ive also reviewed the 
medical evidence  thats available  to me. 
I have no doubt  that when  Mr M first visited his GP, any undiagnosed condition he had was 
considered minor. Mr Ms GP mentions the possibility of gallstones in his notes and a letter 
from the GP to Mr Ms ultrasonographer talks about a possible diagnosis  of cholecystitis. 
Furthermore, the medical certificate completed by Mr Ms GP says there was no way of 
predicting Mr Ms illness.  
When Mr Ms GP received the results of his ultrasound, Mr M was given an urgent referral 
for a CT scan. I agree  with what Mr and Mrs Ms representative has said about the content of 
this referral letter. Although the letter mentions the two week appointment system having 
been introduced  so that patients with cancer  symptoms could be seen as quickly  as 
possible, it goes  on to say the majority  of patients seen do not have cancer. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms representative  says they were assured the referral was routine 
and of no major concern, and that the seriousness  of the situation wasnt  conveyed  to Mr M. 
However, the content of Mr Ms GPs notes from the date of the CT scan referral suggest to 
me that its likely cancer was suspected  by the GP at that point, and that a discussion was 
had with Mr M about the matter. 
Nonetheless, I accept  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative has said about their mind-set  at 
the time and that they made the final payment  in the expectation of being able to go on 
holiday.
But, even  if I accept  that a cancer diagnosis wasnt envisaged at the point of Mr Ms referral 
for a CT scan, I think the referral itself was a significant change in Mr Ms circumstances 
which it would have  been reasonable for him to have told Aviva about. So, even if the 
possible severity of the situation  wasnt  communicated to Mr M, I think  he still had an 
obligation to contact Aviva and tell it about the referral. 
If Mr M had done this, Aviva would have said it couldnt offer cover  for any claims arising 
from the investigations Mr M was undergoing. So, Aviva would have amended Mr and 
Mrs Ms cover from the date of the referral. 
As stated in the policy, cancellation cover would  still have  applied. But this cancellation cover 
would only have extended to the amount  Mr and Mrs M had paid for the holiday up until the 
date of the referral.  Aviva  wouldnt  have covered any payments made for the holiday after 
this date. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms representative  feels the policy  terms can be interpreted  as 
requiring the policyholder to contact  Aviva only if they still wish to travel,  and Mr and 
Mrs M didnt  wish to travel. I dont agree with this interpretation. The requirement  on Mr and 
Mrs M was to notify Aviva of the referral  and at the time of the referral its clear  Mr and 
Mrs M did still wish to travel.   
Ref: DRN36405814Ive also taken into account what Mr and Mrs Ms representative has said about the policy  
requirement to notify Aviva about a referral  immediately. Of course, it would not be realistic 
to always apply a strict interpretation  to this word. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect 
a policyholder to contact  their insurer as a priority above everything else when dealing with a 
serious situation regarding their health. However,  in this case, Im satisfied there was 
sufficient time for Mr and Mrs M to have contacted Aviva in between the date of Mr Ms 
referral for a CT scan and Mr and Mrs M making the final holiday payment. 
This means  I dont  think the final payment which Mr and Mrs M made for their holiday is 
covered under the terms and conditions  of their policy,  and I dont think Aviva has been 
unfair or unreasonable in turning down this part of their claim.  
However, I dont think Aviva handled this claim well. It initially  referred to policy terms which  
werent relevant  to Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and when Aviva did identify the correct  
policy term, I think it could have been clearer in its explanation to Mr and Mrs Ms 
representative as to why the final holiday payment  wasnt covered. I also note Aviva  
corresponded directly with Mrs M despite  being asked not to, which  Im sure will have 
caused her additional stress and upset at an already  difficult  time. 
Aviva has now offered to pay £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
by these issues and I think this is a fair offer in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made  an offer to pay £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the handling  of this claim.  
I think this is a fair offer in the circumstances, so my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  
should pay the estate of Mr M, and Mrs M £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr M, 
and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 10 February  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3640581