K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard  mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy in 2003  when  he 
applied for a credit card.
background
Mr S complained to this service. He bought a PPI policy in 2003 by completing a leaflet in a 
branch of Barclays. He says he had significant  sick pay benefits at the time of the sale, so he 
concludes he did not need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  not be upheld. Mr S disagreed with 
our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr S's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S's complaint. I know this will be 
a disappointing  result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked  at whether Barclays made it clear the policy  was an optional  product. Barclays 
produced a copy of Mr S's credit  card application  form from 2003.  I can see there  was a 
separate section  of the form headed Barclaycard Payment Protection. I can see Mr S 
ticked this section and entered his personal  details and I noted  he declined  other  offers on 
the form. So I think he completed the form diligently  by only choosing  the products he 
wanted. I think his signature means Barclays probably made it clear enough that Mr S 
didnt have to take out the PPI and yet he chose to take it out  although  I can understand 
why he may not be able to remember this.
The policy was recommended so Barclays had to make  sure the policy  was suitable  for 
him.
I think the policy probably was suitable  for Mr S. I say this because  he was eligible to buy it; 
he wasnt affected by the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions) and it seemed 
affordable for him at the time of the sale.
I then looked at Mr Ss financial  circumstances to see if the policy  was still suitable for him.
Mr S said he could  have received significant sick pay for an indefinite  period of time. 
However, he could  not prove this as the employer company was no longer trading. So I think  
it is reasonable to assume Mr S would have received some sick pay. And - in the absence  of 
any evidence to make me think otherwise - I think it is also reasonable to say the PPI might 
have lasted for longer than or in addition to his sick pay. So I dont think  his sick pay made 
the policy unsuitable.
For advised sales, Barclays  also had to give Mr S enough information which was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so he could make an informed decision.
Ref: DRN37811702Its possible the information given to Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should
have been. But as I think he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. So the PPI 
could have been useful if he wasnt able to work  or had lost his job. 
Barclays should also have  pointed out the things the policy  did not cover  (the 
exclusions). I don't  know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mr S was affected  
by the main exclusions. So - even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont 
think it would  have  put him off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy was most likely suitable and Mr S was 
probably given  enough information to make an informed decision.  So I am not going to 
uphold this complaint.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Barclays has given me information  that shows Mr Ss credit  card was taken out in 2003  and 
ended in 2004. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So Barclays  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr S paid for the PPI he had with 
his credit card.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3781170