K822xcomplaint
Miss W has complained that Amigo Loans Ltd (Amigo) shouldnt have accepted her as a 
guarantor on a loan provided to a friend  (the borrower).  Miss W says that it was 
irresponsible for Amigo  to accept her as a guarantor. 
She says that the responsibilities of being a guarantor  werent  properly explained to her as 
she thought that she was only responsible for making the payments to the top-up of £1039  
and not the additional  amount  that went towards settling the initial  loan. She also says any 
reasonable checks wouldve shown that she couldnt afford to make the loan payments and 
so she shouldnt have  been accepted as a guarantor.  
background
Amigo hasnt been entirely clear  about the precise  circumstances  behind  the outstanding  
loan balance  in question.  It told Miss W that shed agreed to be the guarantor on the initial 
loan as well as the top-up. But as I understand it, Amigos position now is that it doesnt  
allow borrowers to have more than one outstanding  loan at a time,  the top-up was a 
completely new loan, rather than just a top-up to the existing one.  
As this was the case, the new loan included a sum to clear the outstanding balance  on the 
initial loan too. And by signing  the guarantee and indemnity agreement, Miss W became the 
guarantor for a total loan amount of £5750 not just the £1039  in additional funds that were  
transferred to Miss Ws account for her to pass on to the guarantor.      
One of our investigators  looked at what Amigo and Miss W said.  She thought  that Amigo  
hadnt done anything wrong  when accepting Miss W as a guarantor. And as the borrower  
had failed to make payments, it wasnt unfair  for Amigo  to now enforce the terms of the 
guarantee and pursue Miss W for these payments. So the investigator didnt recommend 
that Miss Ws complaint  should be upheld.  
Miss W disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.
my provisional decision
On 18 April 2019, I issued  a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Miss Ws 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
Firstly, I summarised  the regulatory  framework,  relevant law, relevant publications, what I 
consider to be good industry practice  (this is copied in full in the appendix to this decision  
and I ask Amigo and Miss W to read this again in order  to give proper  context to this final 
decision).
In light of the relevant rules, guidance, good  industry practice and law, I explained that there  
were four overarching questions I needed  to consider in order to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Those questions  were:
1.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?  
Ref: DRN38475392oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that the borrower would have 
been able to do so?
2.Did Amigo  obtain Miss Ws properly informed  consent before  binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement?
3.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not?
oIf so, did it make  a fair decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss W would have been able 
to do so?
4.Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
In considering the first overarching question  whether Amigo completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way  I explained  that the rules  and regulations required Amigo to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether the borrower could afford to repay any 
loan in a sustainable manner. 
I also explained that as the borrower wasnt a party  to this complaint, I didnt have any 
evidence of the checks that Amigo carried out, or the depth  that they went  into, before it 
agreed to lend to the borrower.  But the lack of information from both Amigo  and the borrower  
on this matter didnt  lessen the problem,  as Amigo was seeking to enforce the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement. And Miss W says she should never have  been  accepted  as a 
guarantor in the first place. 
That said,  I didnt think that the lack of information about the checks Amigo carried out on the 
borrower mattered too much in this case. And as this was the case,  I didnt think that it was 
necessary for me to make  a finding on whether the checks Amigo  carried out on the 
borrower were proportionate. 
I said this even though the statement of account suggested only a single monthly payment 
was made  by the borrower and Amigo was seeking to enforce the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement against  Miss W. And both of these factors were  indications that the monthly  loan 
payments may have  been unaffordable for the borrower in the first place. 
I then went on to explain that the rules  and regulations in place at the time Amigo  sought to 
bind Miss W to the guarantee and indemnity agreement required it to obtain her properly 
informed consent  before doing so. And it had to do this by getting Miss Ws agreement to the 
guarantee after having provided her with an adequate explanation  of the circumstances in 
which the guarantee and/or indemnity might  be called upon and what the implications  of the 
guarantee being called upon would be. 
The level of explanation required for it to be adequate depended on a number of factors,  
including the actual and potential costs  of the credit, the risk to the guarantor and the 
channel or medium  through  which the transaction takes place. I explained that, in this case, 
Amigo had relied  on the pre-payout call it had with Miss W as well as the Terms of 
Agreement it provided her with. 
Ref: DRN38475393I then went on to explain that having  carefully listened to the call and reviewed the 
agreement, I had a number  of observations.
My first observation was that Amigos representative  proceeded on the basis  that Miss W 
had been the guarantor  for the initial  loan taken by the borrower.  I pointed  out that Amigo  
now accepted  that this was an error.  That said, it was clear to me that Amigos 
representative only made reference  to funds of £1039.73. And while  the representative did 
go on to confirm that the monthly payments were £280.54 over a term of three years,  there 
was no reference   at any stage during the call - to Miss W agreeing  to guarantee a loan of 
£5750. 
So I understood why Miss W was left with the impression that she was only guaranteeing 
£1039.73. And I didnt  think that it was unreasonable for her to have reached that conclusion 
either.
I acknowledged that Amigo also argued  that - irrespective of the discussion on the call -  
Miss W was provided with the Terms of her Agreement and she confirmed that she had 
read, understood and accepted them. But I explained that it seemed to me that the purpose 
of the pre-payout call was to obtain  Miss Ws informed consent to being the guarantor on this 
loan.
So, in my view, this was the channel or medium that this transaction  took place. And, in 
these circumstances,  I didnt see how Amigo could fairly and reasonably seek to correct an 
omission in the information it provided  on the call with information it provided  through  
another medium. Equally I didnt think it was fair and reasonable to expect Miss W to have 
picked out the relevant parts of different communications and piece them  together to get an 
idea of her obligations, when it was Amigos responsibility to provide an adequate  
explanation of them.  
I also added  that I thought  Amigo  was somewhat overplaying the extent  to which  it confirmed 
Miss W had read, understood and accepted the Terms of Agreement  during the call. I 
thought this because the representative asked whether Miss W was the person  that had 
read and signed  online  agreeing to stand as guarantor. The representative didnt ask 
whether Miss W had understood the Terms of Agreement. So Im not persuaded that Amigo  
did clearly explain,  in a fair and reasonable way, that Miss W was agreeing  to stand as a 
guarantor on a loan of £5750.
I also explained that I had concerns about the adequacy of the explanation provided about  
the circumstances in which the guarantee  might be called on and what the implications of 
this might be. 
Miss Ws Guarantee and Indemnity agreement says: 
YOU MAY HAVE TO PAY INSTEAD  of the Borrower  and fulfil any obligations under the 
Guarantee & Indemnity.  However, if the Borrower fails to keep  his side of the Agreement, 
Amigo Loans must send  him a default  notice (and a copy to you) giving him a chance  to put 
things right before any claim is made on you.        
But the representative merely said that Miss W would be responsible for making any 
payment that the borrower  fails to make. She didnt say anything about Amigo needing  to 
issue a default  notice and giving the borrower  the chance to make things right first. 
Ref: DRN38475394Equally while the representative went on to say that Miss W failing to keep to her 
responsibilities as a guarantor  could  result in court action to clear  the balance  in full and that 
this in turn could  lead to a charging order or an attachment of earnings order, she didnt seek 
to explain what either of these orders were.  
All the representative  said was that Miss W should seek  advice  from Citizens  Advice (rather 
than independent legal advice from a legal professional (which  could  include  Citizens  
Advice)). I didnt  think that this was fair and reasonable bearing in mind that Amigo itself was 
required to communicate  and explain matters using plain and intelligible  language.
So bearing in mind the potential implications Amigo itself foresaw, the seriousness of them 
and its failure to fairly and reasonably use what I considered to be plain and intelligible  
language, I didnt think that Amigo provided an adequate explanation about the 
circumstances in which the guarantee might be called on and what  the implications of this 
might be to Miss W. 
In my view, Miss W quite  reasonably believed that, at worst, shed only be responsible for a 
loan of £1039.73. And even then bearing in mind the channel or medium the transaction  took 
place and the potential risk to Miss W, I didnt think that the implications of the guarantee 
being called  upon were  fairly and reasonably explained to her. 
As this was the case, I confirmed that I was minded to find that Amigo  didnt  properly obtain  
Miss Ws informed  consent, in a way that was fair and reasonable, before binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement it was now seeking  to enforce against her.       
I then explained  that as well as requiring Amigo to obtain Miss Ws informed consent to 
being bound to the agreement, the rules and regulations in place also required Amigo  to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss W could afford to 
repay this loan in a sustainable manner should  the borrower fail to do so. 
I made  it clear that Amigo was required to carry out this guarantor  focused assessment in 
addition to a similar one on the borrower. These checks had to be customer-focused  so 
Amigo had to think about whether Miss W would be able to repay  the loan sustainably in the 
event she had to. 
In practice this meant that Amigo had to reasonably conclude  that making the payments to 
the loan, in the event she had to, wouldnt cause Miss W undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other  words, it wasnt enough for Amigo to simply think  about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on 
Miss W.
I then explained  that what constitutes a proportionate affordability check  will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I thought  that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
Ref: DRN38475395the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
I set out that Id carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
My thoughts on Amigos checks started  by noting  that Amigo  appeared to be relying heavily 
on the online questionnaire which it asked Miss W to complete prior to the pre-payment call 
taking place and it accepting her as a guarantor on this loan. I had significant concerns  
about the weight Amigo placed  on this information because the use of the word 
assessment in the title of this document didnt, in itself, mean that an assessment, let alone  
a reasonable and proportionate one of Miss Ws ability to sustainably repay this loan in the 
event the borrower  didnt,  took place.
I explained my view that an assessment requires some kind of evaluation, judgement, 
appraisal or scrutiny. And, in this case, I thought  that Amigo  simply accepted the information  
provided without  question and without any attempt  to scrutinise or evaluate it. I thought this 
was the case  because Miss W was recorded as having a monthly income of £3000 even 
though she was also recorded  as having been employed as a Senior Healthcare Assistant. 
I didnt think that it was impossible for Miss W to have had a monthly income of this amount 
in the job she had. But given the declared  income was substantially above the average for 
an individual in this line of work,  I thought that it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Amigo to have taken steps  to have verified the monthly income it was 
provided with in this case. I also explained  that I thought it would still be sensible and 
proportionate to verify, at least, employment status and income  irrespective of whether the 
declared figure was wholly out of kilter. 
Furthermore, there didnt  appear to have been any scrutiny of the rest of the information  
included on the questionnaire either. For example, I hadnt seen anything to suggest  that 
Miss Ws rent declaration was verified.  And I was also concerned at the fact that Miss W 
didnt appear to have been asked about her existing monthly credit commitments either. 
There was a section  entitled credit  file, on the questionnaire,  and a balance of £1072.00 on a 
credit card. There was also a monthly  payment of £32.16  recorded  for this. I didnt see how a 
monthly payment  of £32.16 was sustainable for a credit card balance  of around £1000  as I 
couldnt see how this ensured the balance was repaid within  a reasonable period of time. 
Ref: DRN38475396And as Miss W had recent defaults  on at least one loan account, I was surprised that this 
didnt show up, or it at least wasnt reflected  in the information recorded, in the credit search 
Amigo looked to have carried out either.      
I noted that Amigo said it was entitled  to rely on the information Miss W provided within the 
questionnaire and that there was no rule dictating that a creditor must request proof  of 
income or expenses before paying  out a loan.  I also acknowledged that it had relied on an 
FCA publication, first published  in June  2016, entitled Understanding consumer credit  
Creditworthiness and affordability: common misunderstandings.  Amigo  says in this 
publication the FCA said the lender must  make  a reasonable assessment in the individual 
case but we do not dictate  how this must  be done.
I set out that I was familiar  with the document Amigo had referred to. But I didnt think  that 
the document supported  the argument Amigo was advancing as strongly as it believed. The 
document said that the circumstances of the individual application would dictate  what would 
be reasonable. It didnt  suggest that it would  never  be necessary  to request proof of income 
or expenses  before a lender advanced credit.  
I then went on to set out that the circumstances  where it would be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate for a lender  to carry out further  checks were provided  for within  the rules 
themselves. CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides guidance on the proportionality of  
affordability/creditworthiness assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not 
being sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit relative to the customers  financial situation. Equally CONC 5.3.1G(4)(b) says that 
where it takes income or expenditure  into account, it is not generally sufficient for a firm to 
rely solely on a statement  of those matters made by the customer. 
So, in my view, a less detailed  affordability  assessment, without  the need for verification, 
was far more likely  to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in circumstances  where the 
amount to be repaid was relatively small,  the consumers financial situation was stable and 
they would  be indebted for a relatively short  period. 
But, in circumstances  where a customers finances  were likely to be less stable, they were 
being expected to repay a larger amount for a longer period of time and there was the 
potential for charging  and attachment of earnings  orders, I think it was far more  likely that 
any affordability assessment would  need to be more  detailed  and contain a greater degree 
of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate.  
I then went on to consider  Amigos checks and what was fair, reasonable and proportionate, 
in this case, in this context.
I explained that in Miss Ws case, the worst case scenario  where the borrower didnt make 
any payments to this loan  would have seen her being required to make  payments of 
around £280 for three  years. So the total charge for this credit was approaching £5000. And 
the content of the pre-payment  call Amigo had with Miss W led me to think that it saw 
charging and/or attachment  of earnings  orders as a reasonably foreseeable consequence of 
Miss W not fulfilling her obligations under  the guarantee and indemnity agreement.
CONC defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. I thought that this 
Ref: DRN38475397meant a lender needed to do more  than simply assess whether the loan repayments  were 
technically affordable  on a strict calculation.  
I couldnt see how Amigo could fairly  and reasonably  have concluded that Miss W would be 
able to make  these repayments  on time,  for up to three years, without difficulty,  without first 
getting a thorough understanding  of her financial circumstances.  
Taking all of this into account,  I thought that Amigo needed to get a reasonable 
understanding of Miss Ws actual  financial position  in order  to properly assess  whether shed 
be able to sustainably  make the loan payments in the event she needed to. So as well as 
asking Miss W about the details of her income  and expenditure, I thought that Amigo needed 
to take steps to verify what it was being  told by Miss W. It could have done this by asking  for 
information such as bank statements, copies of bills, or even proof  of Miss Ws income. 
 
As there was no evidence  that Amigo did properly scrutinise the information  provided, or that 
it asked Miss W to provide documentary  evidence to support the income  and expenditure 
declaration made, I didnt  think  that it completed  fair, reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before accepting  her as a guarantor for this loan.
I then went on to consider  whether reasonable and proportionate  checks, for this loan would 
more likely than not have indicated to Amigo that Miss W would have been  unable to 
sustainably repay  it in the event she had to. 
I started  by explaining  that Amigo was required to establish whether Miss W could 
sustainably make these  loan repayments in the event she had to. And, in my view,  this was 
wider than simply assessing just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  I went on to explain that the loan payments being 
affordable on this basis could sometimes be an indication that a consumer could sustainably 
make repayments. 
But this in itself didnt automatically mean that this was the case.  This was because the rules 
and guidance  were all clear in saying that a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in 
order to make the repayments. And, in my view, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, a borrower would be unlikely  to be able to sustainably 
make their repayments if it was on notice  the borrower was unlikely  to be able to make their 
repayments without  borrowing  further. 
I considered the information that had been  provided  in light of this. 
I started  by explaining  that it wouldnt have come as a surprise  to Amigo for it to have  
learned that the information I was provided  with showed Miss W was earning substantially  
less than what it had recorded on its questionnaire.  I could  see that even when  Miss W did 
the most  amount of overtime, her take home pay was less than what Amigo had recorded as 
her basic  monthly income.  
I also explained that the information I saw showed  that Miss W had defaulted on, at least 
one, loan and it had been passed to a debt recovery company as a result. And when           
Miss Ws existing  credit  commitments and normal monthly living costs were deducted from 
her actual monthly income  she had nowhere  near enough funds to be able to make the 
payments for this loan for one month   let alone  the 36 she may have had to as a worst case  
scenario  been expected  to cover.    
Ref: DRN38475398So I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate  checks would more likely  than not have 
demonstrated that Miss W would not have been  able to afford to make these loan payments 
in the event she had to. And, in these  circumstances, I thought  that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have  alerted Amigo to the fact that Miss W 
would not be able to sustainably make  the repayments to this loan. 
Put simply I thought  reasonable and proportionate checks  would more likely than not have 
shown that Miss W wouldnt have been  able to make these payments without undue difficulty  
or without  the need to borrow. So I said that I intended  to find that Amigos  failure  to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks led to it unfairly accepting Miss W as a guarantor  
on this loan.     
I then went on to consider  the final one of the four overarching  questions I set out on page 
two of this decision. And having  carefully thought about everything provided and bearing  in 
mind Miss Ws reasons  for complaining, I thought  there were two questions for me to 
consider when deciding whether Amigo acted unfairly or unreasonably to Miss W in some 
other way. 
The first of these questions was whether Amigo unfairly and unreasonably disclosed 
information about Miss W  primarily the existence  of this complaint - to the borrower. And 
the second was whether Amigo treated Miss W positively and sympathetically  once it was 
informed that she wouldnt be able to make the loan repayments because  of her mental 
health condition.
I explained that Miss W believed Amigo had disclosed the existence of this complaint to the 
borrower. But having carefully considered  everything provided, I hadnt  seen  anything  to 
suggest that Amigo had done  so.
What Id seen suggested  that the borrower  approached Amigo for further funds in October 
2018. And as I understood  it, Amigo refused to proceed with the application  with Miss W as 
a guarantor because  Miss W had complained the month before. I was pleased to see that 
Amigo took note of Miss Ws complaint and didnt accept her as a guarantor when the 
borrower requested  further funds. And I thought that it was fair and reasonable for Amigo not 
to accept Miss W as a guarantor on the additional loan requested  by the borrower.  
I also thought  that it wasnt  unfair or unreasonable for Amigo to tell the borrower that they 
needed to find an alternative guarantor if they wished to borrow  more  money.  That way the 
borrower was free to find someone else who may have been prepared  to have been a 
guarantor for them  and they might  have been able to proceed  with their application. 
Equally, while  Amigo  told the borrower they couldnt proceed with a further loan application 
with Miss W as a guarantor, I hadnt  seen anything  to indicate that it told them  Miss W had 
made a complaint.
So having  carefully considered matters and taken everything into account, I didnt think  that 
Amigo unfairly and unreasonably  disclosed  the existence of this complaint to the borrower.
I also explained that Miss W had said that Amigo had failed to properly take into account  her 
mental health condition once she disclosed it. I carefully thought  about what  Miss W and 
Amigo had said about this and also considered all of the medical evidence provided.
Ref: DRN38475399I started  by saying that whilst I acknowledged Im not a medical professional,  the evidence  I 
received from those who are qualified  to make these medical judgements  persuaded me that 
it was more likely than not that Miss W had suffered from a mental health condition for a 
number of years. So I was satisfied that Miss W was suffering from a mental  health  condition 
at the time she was accepted as a guarantor for the loan in question.   
  
I was also satisfied that this wasnt disclosed at any stage during the application process. 
And having listened to the pre-payment  call, while Id already explained why I was minded  to 
find that Miss W didnt provide properly informed consent to being a guarantor on this loan, I 
didnt think that there  was anything in the call itself that ought to have  alerted  Amigo  to      
Miss Ws condition,  or that ought to have prompted  it to make further enquiries into this.
That said,  while I didnt think that Amigo had treated Miss W unfairly   with regard to her 
mental health condition  during the application  process, I didnt think  that it had treated her 
fairly and reasonably once Miss W disclosed her mental health condition.  
In my view, rather than simply focusing on whether  it ought to have accepted Miss W as a 
guarantor in the first place, Amigo also needed to ensure  it treated  Miss W positively and 
sympathetically when  pursuing the loan payments from her. But other than asking Miss W to 
complete a Debt and Mental Health Evidence  Form, I couldnt  see that it did anything  
differently and it continued  to pursue loan payments as normal.
In my view, this caused stress and anxiety during what  must already have been a difficult 
period of time for Miss W. So as I wasnt persuaded that Amigo adapted its collection 
practice to take into account Miss Ws possible mental health condition, I was minded to 
conclude that it hadnt treated her positively  and sympathetically. And it followed  that I 
intended to find that Amigo had acted  unfairly  and unreasonably  towards Miss W in some 
other way.
All of this led me to issue a provisional decision which concluded  that:
I didnt need to make a finding on whether Amigo completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower would be able to repay  this 
loan in a sustainable  way;
Amigo didnt obtain Miss Ws properly informed consent before binding her to the 
guarantor and indemnity agreement;
Amigo didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay  the loan in the event the borrower did not and that 
such checks would have  shown that Miss W was unable to do so; 
Amigo did act unfairly and/or unreasonably  towards Miss W in some  other  way. 
So overall my provisional decision  found  that Amigo unfairly and unreasonably  accepted  
Miss W as a guarantor on this loan.
As Miss W was being expected to make repayments on a loan she shouldnt  have  been  
accepted as a guarantor  for, I thought that she stood  to lose out because  of what  Amigo did 
wrong. 
 
Ref: DRN384753910I finally set out a method of putting  things right for Miss W, which I found addressed Amigos 
failings and Miss Ws resulting loss.
Amigos response to my provisional decision
Amigo responded to my provisional decision. In summary, Amigos  response said that:
it was disappointed that I intended to uphold Miss Ws complaint and asked me to 
review my conclusions in light of its further  arguments;
before  the loan was paid out it completed a number of checks  to establish  
whether the borrower  could afford the monthly  payments for the duration of the 
loan term. As well as requiring the borrower to complete a budget plan,  it carried 
out a number of checks to verify  the information  provided and ensure it was 
reasonably accurate.  This included using  the services of a Credit Reference  
Agency (CRA) to assess whether the borrowers total expenditure, the monthly 
instalment, and a buffer would be affordable to them, based on their income;
the borrower called  in November 2018 to explain that theyd experienced a 
significant change  in their personal  and financial circumstances. So it is unfair to 
assume that the payments  were unaffordable for the borrower from the outset. 
And Amigo seeking to enforce the guarantee and indemnity  agreement against 
Miss W isnt itself an indication that the loan was unaffordable at the outset either;
the account was already nine days in arrears when the borrower called to explain 
their change  in circumstances. And to prevent the account falling further behind 
when the next payment fell due it contacted  Miss W in order  for her to step in and 
make the payment;  
while the pre-payout  call helps  it ensure  a customer  is happy to enter into the 
agreement, it is its full application process,  including the aspects completed 
online, that allows it to ensure an individual consents to be a guarantor. As such, 
the content of the pre-payout call should not be viewed independently of the pre-
payout process or outside of the wider context  of the application, in the way my 
provisional decision did;
it accepts that the full loan amount wasnt disclosed during the pre-payout call but 
it is not reasonable to assume that Miss W wasnt aware  of the total loan amount 
because of this. Miss W was shown a page,  when  she provided her details 
online, confirming  that the total amount being  borrowed. Equally the agreement 
Miss W signed  online and the post-payout letter both confirmed the full loan 
amount. Miss W ought to have contacted Amigo to query  any discrepancy should 
it have been the case she was unsure what she signed up to;
it wouldnt be appropriate  for it to have asked  Miss W whether she understood 
the terms and conditions of her agreement,  given that her understanding could 
only be considered  in the context  of her own understanding;
the explanation it provided about  the circumstances in which the guarantee and 
indemnity might  be called upon was adequate. The terms and conditions 
explained that Miss W would be called to make the payments  on the loan in the 
Ref: DRN384753911event the borrower  didnt.  This message was also repeated on the pre-payout  
call;
while its agent didnt  explain  what an attachment  of earnings order or a charging 
order was, this information was in Miss Ws terms and conditions. The terms and 
conditions said If you or the Borrower breach  any term of this agreement or the 
Borrowers agreement we may send the Borrower a default notice (and send you 
a copy).  On expiry of that notice,  we may: close the account; and demand 
immediate payment of the full debt. We may also take court  action against both 
you and the Borrower.  If we obtain  judgment,  we may apply for an attachment of 
earnings order (where we have  the courts  permission  to get your employer to 
pay us out of your salary),  warrant of execution (which may involve a bailiff  
visiting your property),  property charging  order (where we get rights to be paid 
out of the money  paid when you sell your property) or the Scottish and Irish 
equivalents.
Miss W was also told that she should  seek independent advice  from the Citizens 
Advice Bureau if she was in any way unsure or concerned about what  she was 
being asked to sign up to;   
it disagreed that it simply  accepted the information Miss W provided  without  any 
attempt to scrutinise or evaluate it;
it completed a number of checks on the income  and expenditure assessment to 
ensure the figures  provided were  reasonable and realistic. For example it 
compared each  item of Miss Ws expenditure to the national  average.  Miss Ws 
income was also verified. If the information  Miss W provided couldnt be verified  
through these  checks then further  information  would have been requested.  But 
this wasnt necessary here;
at the time of this loan Miss Ws credit  file showed that she had four active 
creditors. It didnt show anything to suggest that Miss W had defaulted on an 
account;
it considers that monthly payments of £32.16 towards an outstanding balance of 
£1072 would  settle the debt in less than three years. And it doesnt  agree  that this 
isnt a reasonable period of time for these debts to be cleared;
Miss W hadnt  previously raised  concerns about  the service  she received after 
she notified Amigo of her mental  health concerns. So it wouldnt have expected  
me to comment on this in my provisional  decision;
once Miss W said she was unable to make payments, it completed a new budget 
plan with her and this determined  that she didnt have the ability to make the 
payments to this loan.  And as the account has remained  in arrears it has been 
passed to its pre-litigation team;
Miss W was sent a Debt and Mental Health Evidence form to complete  and 
return, which she didnt  do. So it disagrees that it would have been appropriate to 
act any differently.
Ref: DRN384753912So bearing in mind all of the above Amigo didnt think that it unfairly  and unreasonably 
accepted Miss W as a guarantor on this loan, or unfairly and unreasonably pursued her for 
payment.
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Amigos  response,  I can 
confirm that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments it has made.
Miss Ws response to my provisional decision
Miss W also responded saying:
this loan was the second  loan that the borrower  had. So Amigo ought to have 
looked at whether  their situation  had got worse;
she didnt read the paperwork in detail  because she didnt know  what  a guarantor  
agreement should look like or what to look for;
she doesnt think that the adviser  completing  the income and expenditure 
assessment could ever have had a credit card or they would have known that 
most of her monthly  payments went to the interest being added, rather than to 
what she owed;
she felt that Amigo  didnt care about  her mental  health when she mentioned it. 
She doesnt think sending her case to a pre-litigation team,  in circumstances 
where it was accepted  she couldnt  afford to pay, was fair.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account  the relevant law and regulations;  relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Ive set out all 
of this in the appendix  to this decision.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I remain of 
the view that the four overarching questions  that I set out in my provisional decision are what 
I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
These questions are:
1.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?  
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that the borrower wouldve been 
able to do so?
Ref: DRN3847539132.Did Amigo  obtain Miss Ws properly informed  consent before  binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement?
3.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not?
oIf so, did it make  a fair decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss W wouldve been able to 
do so?
4.Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Amigo hasnt challenged  my conclusion that these  overarching  questions are relevant to me 
deciding this complaint. Indeed, Amigos response  to my provisional  decision appears to 
accept that these are the relevant questions.  The content of Amigos  response suggests it is 
my findings  on these matters that it disagrees with.
Did Amigo complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower 
would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?  
Both Amigo and Miss W have provided  further  arguments regarding the adequacy of the 
checks carried out on the borrower prior to the loan being provided. But my provisional 
decision didnt make a finding on whether Amigo carried  out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on the borrower prior to providing the loan. 
My provisional decision did say that the borrower only making  a single monthly  payment and 
Amigo seeking to enforce  the guarantee against Miss W were indications that the monthly 
loan payments may have been  unaffordable  for the borrower in the first place. But as I had 
no evidence of any of the checks Amigo may have carried out and I thought there  were  a 
number of other reasons why Miss W shouldnt have  been accepted as a guarantor on this 
loan, I didnt consider  it necessary to make  a finding  on any checks  that Amigo may have 
carried out.
So while Amigo and Miss W have made further  arguments regarding the adequacy  of the 
checks Amigo carried out on the borrower,  as my provisional decision made  no finding on 
whether these checks were reasonable and proportionate, I dont think that it is necessary 
for me to respond to these comments here as they dont alter my conclusions.
Did Amigo obtain Miss Ws properly informed  consent before  binding her to the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement?
Amigo has argued that I placed too much weight  on the pre-payout  call in my provisional 
decision. It says that the purpose  of the pre-payout call wasnt  to gain Miss Ws informed 
consent to stand as a guarantor. But rather the purpose of the call was to ensure that      
Miss W accepted her responsibilities under the agreement shed electronically signed  and 
accepted how the loan would work.  Amigo also says that it is its full application process that 
allows it to ensure an individual consents to be a guarantor and so the pre-payout call should  
not be viewed  independently or outside  the wider context of the application.
Ive thought about what Amigo  has said. But I dont  think that it has quite got to grips  with all 
the reasons why I found it didnt obtain  Miss Ws properly informed consent before binding  
her to the guarantee and indemnity agreement.
Ref: DRN384753914My provisional decision made  it clear  that CONC 4.2.7G sets out that whether an 
explanation of a guarantee agreement is adequate will depend on a number of factors, 
including the actual and potential costs  of the credit, the risk to the guarantor and the 
channel or medium  through  which the transaction takes place.   
I did say that I considered  the purpose of the pre-payout  call was to obtain Miss Ws 
informed consent  to stand as a guarantor.  I stand by this finding  as CONC 4.2.7G refers to 
the channel or medium used  by a firm when providing an explanation rather than channels  
or mediums. And Amigos response indicates  to me that Miss W would not be bound  to the 
signed electronic  agreement  unless  and until she confirmed that she accepted  these 
responsibilities during  the pre-payout call. 
So I remain  satisfied that the pre-payout call was an essential part of Amigos process  to 
obtain Miss Ws consent. And, in these circumstances, I still think  that Amigo  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  provided a more thorough explanation of the circumstances in which  the 
guarantee might be called upon and what the implications would be  including explaining 
what charging orders and attachment  of earnings orders  were  in the pre-payment call.    
In any event, even  if I put to one side my view that the call was the primary medium to obtain 
Miss Ws properly  informed consent  (and accept Amigos argument that I have  to look at the 
process as a whole) I think  that the information  and explanations  provided  throughout the 
process had to be fair, reasonable  and consistent. And my provisional  decision also found 
that there  were significant, substantial and material inconsistencies between what  was said 
during the call and the information contained  in the agreement.  
For example, the amount of the funds referred  to in the call was £1039.73 even though  
Amigo was seeking  to bind Miss W as a guarantor to a loan of £5750. Equally the 
representative says that Miss W will be responsible for making any payment the borrower 
fails to make. But the guarantee and indemnity agreement states that Amigo would need to 
issue a default  notice to the borrower before any claim  can be made on the Miss W. 
Rather than clarifying  these inconsistencies Amigos submissions  have left me even more 
persuaded that it didnt obtain Miss Ws properly  informed consent to the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement, it is now seeking  to enforce against her. 
I say this because  while my provisional  decision  highlighted the difference between what 
was said during the pre-payout call and what was on the guarantee agreement  itself, about 
when Miss W would be expected to make payment, I thought this this was merely a case of 
the adviser failing  to adequately explain the terms of the agreement.  But Amigos  
submissions suggest  that it asked  Miss W to step in and make the November  2018  payment 
only 15 days after the borrower didnt do so. As Ive explained the terms of Miss Ws 
guarantee and indemnity agreement said:
YOU MAY HAVE TO PAY INSTEAD  of the Borrower  and fulfil any obligations under the 
Guarantee & Indemnity.  However, if the Borrower fails to keep  his side of the Agreement, 
Amigo Loans must send  him a default  notice (and a copy to you) giving him a chance  to put 
things right before any claim is made on you.        
I dont know if Amigo did issue the borrower  with a default notice  it hasnt said it did. But 
The Principles for the Reporting  of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference 
Agencies (principles) published  by the Information Commissioners Office  in January 2014, 
Ref: DRN384753915is the accepted good  industry practice regarding when it is appropriate to default a borrower. 
The principles describe a default as a record to show that the relationship  has broken down  
between a debtor and a creditor. The principles also say that this may occur when you (the 
borrower) are 3 months in arrears,  and normally by the time you are 6 months  in arrears.
So if Amigo  did issue a default  notice to the borrower, before  seeking  payment from Miss W, 
it will have  done this much sooner than when the generally accepted good industry practice 
suggests its usually  appropriate to. I say usually because there are some exceptions   but 
none of those appear to be present here.  
And even  then I cant see how Amigo will have  allowed the borrower a chance to put things 
right before seeking  to make a claim on Miss W, when  it asked  Miss W to make  a payment a 
mere 15 days after the borrower failed to make it. In these circumstances, it seems to me 
that Amigo sought payment from Miss W before the terms of the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement permitted it to do so. 
In these circumstances, I cant see how and why it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
find that Amigo gained  Miss Ws properly informed consent (to the guarantee and indemnity  
agreement) when  Amigo  appears to be expecting Miss W to have picked out the relevant 
parts of different communications and piece  them together to understand her obligations - 
notwithstanding the contradictions  in circumstances where Amigos  actions  (and its 
subsequent defence of those actions)  suggest it didnt enforce the guarantee in line with its 
own terms or with industry good practice.  Whether  this is because Amigo  has taken a 
deliberate decision  to act outside  those parameters or whether it doesnt realise that it has 
acted outside  those parameters, I cannot  say. 
I say this while mindful that it was Amigos responsibility to provide an adequate explanation 
of the circumstances in which the guarantee and indemnity might be called upon  and what  
the implications of it being called upon  would be. And while  also mindful of the long standing  
legal principle that ambiguous or unclear contractual provisions are usually construed or 
interpreted against  the party that drafted  them. 
So having  carefully considered all of Amigos points regarding  this matter, I still find that it 
failed to obtain Miss Ws properly informed consent to the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement.
Did Amigo complete reasonable  and proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy itself that she 
was in a position repay  the loan in the event  the borrower did not?
Amigo says the checks  it carried  out in order to establish Miss Ws ability to repay the loan, 
in the event she had to, were reasonable and proportionate. It disagrees that it simply 
accepted the information  Miss W provided  without  any attempt to scrutinise or evaluate it 
and it says it completed a number of checks on the income and expenditure assessment  to 
ensure the figures provided were  reasonable and realistic. 
It says it compared each item of Miss Ws expenditure to the national average.  And Miss Ws 
income was also verified. If the information  Miss W provided couldnt be verified  through  
these checks then further information  would  have been requested. But this wasnt  necessary 
here.
My provisional decision indicated that Amigo  appeared to be relying  heavily on the online  
questionnaire which it asked Miss W to complete prior to the pre-payment call taking place. 
Ref: DRN384753916Amigo says this wasnt the case and a CRA used a number  of data points to assess whether 
Miss Ws total expenditure, the monthly  instalment and a buffer would be affordable for her. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Amigo has said.
For the avoidance of doubt, I want to start by saying that Amigo  is responsible  for any 
decision to accept Miss W as a guarantor. Amigo has told me about the data points the CRA  
analysed. But given  that Amigo insists that it was fair, reasonable and proportionate to 
accept Miss W as a guarantor, it needs to tell me not only what data the CRA analysed,  but 
what the output was and also how it used  and interpreted this information  to make a fair and 
responsible decision  here.  And without this information I wont simply take it as a read that 
the CRA  data led to Miss Ws income and expenditure declaration  being  properly  
scrutinised. 
I say this especially  mindful that while  Amigo says it wasnt aware of the defaults on         
Miss Ws credit file, it says the CRA  analysed the payments Miss W was making and theres 
no mention of whether it even searched for defaults.  And while it says that the search  
showed four active  accounts on Miss Ws credit file, it has still only provided  the details of 
one of them (even though  it has now referred to the others) and this is the only one that 
appears to have been factored into the income and expenditure assessment. So I still have 
significant concerns  about the verification of the income and expenditure provided on the 
online questionnaire. 
Equally having  carefully read Amigos response  to my provisional decision, its clear  that it 
has accepted  the budget plan assessment it completed with Miss W after she said she 
couldnt afford the payments (which  was only months after the loan was provided),  shows  
she doesnt have  the ability to make  the payments to this loan. So Im unsure as to whether 
Amigo is arguing that Miss Ws circumstances changed after the loan was provided, or 
whether reasonable and proportionate checks didnt need to go as far ascertaining Miss Ws 
actual financial position.
I want to be clear in saying that given the particular  circumstances in this case - the term of 
the loan, the total charge  for the credit and Amigo seeing charging and/or attachment of 
earnings orders as a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Miss W not meeting her 
obligations - I think that it would have been fair, reasonable and proportionate to ascertain  
Miss Ws actual  financial  position  before accepting that she could make  the payments in the 
event she had to.
Amigo also says that the payment allocated to Miss Ws outstanding credit  card balance was 
enough to ensure it would have been  cleared within three years.  So it disagrees with my 
finding that the balance  wouldnt have been  cleared within a reasonable period of time.
Leaving aside my concerns as to whether three years is a reasonable period of time, I, in 
any event, dont think that Amigos calculations add up here. I think that Amigo  has simply 
divided the outstanding balance by the proposed monthly payment  or at least  thats the 
only method I can see which produce  a similar number here  to work out how many  months  
it would  take to repay what was owed. 
But this was an outstanding balance on a credit card. So the interest wasnt  crystallised  at 
that point, or factored  into the budgeted  payments. Indeed as Miss W has said,  I think  most 
of the monthly  payment budgeted would have been swallowed up by the monthly  interest. 
And Amigos calculations  dont appear to take any account of the interest  that would accrue 
Ref: DRN384753917during the period the balance was to be repaid  and this would inevitably and substantially 
extend the time it took Miss G to clear these balances beyond three years.  
So even if I were to agree  that three years was a reasonable period of time  I want to make 
it clear that I dont  I, in any event, dont see how the payments Amigo recorded  would  have 
led to the balance being cleared within three years. Amigo might have drawn confidence  that 
it would  get its money back because Miss W had been making payments  albeit the 
minimum amount possible.  But Amigo was required to do more than simply assess  the 
likelihood of it receiving  its loan payments from Miss W. 
Amigo also had to consider the impact that making these loan payments would have on   
Miss Ws financial position. And I dont think that the minimum payments Miss W was 
making to her existing  credit card balance, in itself, meant that Miss W was an indication that 
she could sustainably repay this loan in the event she had to.
Indeed Amigos  own website (in the section entitled  Who can be a guarantor?) says:
Finding the right person to be a guarantor  is easier  than you think - you just need to make 
sure its someone who meets the following criteria:
Able to afford the repayments if you dont  pay
Aged  18-75
A UK homeowner, or has a very strong credit history [my emphasis]
A UK resident
Your guarantor doesnt need to be a homeowner, we can still accept those who rent, but 
they will need to have a strong credit history. There is a greater liklihood of your guarantor 
being accepted if they are a homeowner, as this usually means their credit  score is higher. 
Miss W was not a UK homeowner. And even if I put my concerns about the default to one 
side, Miss Ws history  of only making the minimum payment on her credit  card,  isnt 
indicative of an individual  with a very strong credit history. 
So it seems  to me that Miss W didnt meet Amigos own stated criteria for being  a guarantor. 
And, in these circumstances, I cant see how it was fair, reasonable or proportionate to 
accept her as a guarantor  without  asking her to provide evidence of her income and 
expenditure, rather than outsourcing this to a CRA.
Having carefully considered all of Amigos  points  regarding  the checks  it carried out, I remain  
of the view that it didnt  complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss W would be able to make the payments to this loan in the event she had to. 
Equally as Amigo hasnt  offered any further arguments on Miss Ws actual financial position  
 its November 2018 budget plan actually accepts Miss W cant  make the payments as 
required  it follows that I remain of the view that reasonable and proportionate checks  
would more likely than not have shown Miss W wasnt in a position to sustainably  make the 
payments to this loan in the event  she needed to.      
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Amigo has questioned  why I considered whether Miss W was treated fairly after she 
disclosed her mental  health  condition when  she hadnt made a specific and separate 
Ref: DRN384753918complaint about  this. It says that neither Miss Ws original letter of complaint nor her 
completed complaint  form refer to her being  unhappy about  these matters.
Ive thought about what Amigo  has said. To be clear, my provisional decision said that 
Amigo had an obligation to treat Miss W positively and sympathetically once she disclosed  
her mental health condition and her inability to make her payments, irrespective of whether 
Miss W complained about these  matters. 
That said Amigo will be aware  that we have an inquisitorial rather  than an adversarial remit. 
So my role includes finding out and investigating  what lies at the heart of a complaint and not 
just what a consumer  says or writes.  And having considered  all of the correspondence, I, in 
any event, think that Amigo has taken a narrow interpretation of Miss Ws correspondence.
Miss Ws letter of complaint said:
I was willing to pay the £1039  that got paid into my account and stop being  a guarantor. 
This needs urgent attention please.  I am not in a fit mind and i am not mentally stable. This 
is very stressful  for me. and i have been waiting for my complaint to be dealth with since 5th 
September [sic].
And her complaint form also included the following statement:
I have defaults in my name. I also have  a learning disability and suffer  with short  term 
memory loss. I have sent evidence in to say at the time i was suffering mental health issues  
and that this should be considered however they do not want to know.   
I think its clear  from this correspondence that Miss W was unhappy at how Amigo  
responded to the information  and arguments  she made about her mental health condition.  
Equally, Amigo appears to accept that considering whether  it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably to Miss W in some  other  way is a relevant question  to my consideration of this 
complaint. Given what Miss W has said about her condition  and Amigos  failure to take it into 
account, I dont  see how I can fairly  and reasonably  consider  this question in relation to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement without  considering whether Amigo acted fairly  and 
reasonably towards  Miss W once it was notified  about her condition.
So Im satisfied that it was fair, reasonable and appropriate for me to consider Amigos  
actions once Miss W notified it of her mental health condition.
Amigo has also argued that it, in any event, treated  Miss W positively and sympathetically. 
And I have  carefully  considered all of its arguments  in relation to this.
I accept that Miss W didnt return Amigos Debt and Mental Health Evidence form. I also 
know that its Amigos usual process  to pass  an account to its pre-litigation team  once an 
account remains in arrears without a resolution being put in place. So Amigo followed its 
usual process here. But thats precisely  the problem here. 
While Amigo might not have received a completed  Debt and Mental  Health Evidence  form, it 
did receive information from medical practitioners  treating Miss W. I know that it has 
received at least some of this information  as it received copies from our investigator.  So 
although Amigos specific form might  not have been completed, Amigo did have  enough to 
know that Miss W might have had a mental health condition.
Ref: DRN384753919In these circumstances, it was unfair and unreasonable for Amigo  to utilise  its standard  pre-
litigation procedure and threaten court action   especially when Miss W had already said 
that she wasnt in a fit state of mind and she was suffering mental  health  issues.  Amigo  was 
on notice that this may well have  caused additional distress and inconvenience at an already 
stressful time. And as this is what happened, I think that Amigos  actions did constitute  a 
failure to treat Miss W positively and sympathetically.  
So whilst Ive carefully thought about  all of Amigos points  on this matter,  I remain  of the view 
that Amigo acted  unfairly  and unreasonably towards  Miss W in some  other  way.  
conclusions 
   
Having carefully thought  about all of Amigos further  points, Ive not been  persuaded to alter 
the findings reached in my provisional  decision. This means that having carefully thought  
about the four overarching questions, set out on page thirteen  of this decision,  I:
make no finding on whether Amigo completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that the borrower would  be able to repay this loan in a sustainable  
way;
find that Amigo  didnt obtain  Miss Ws properly  informed  consent before binding her 
to the guarantor and indemnity agreement;
find that Amigo  didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks  on Miss W to 
satisfy itself that she was able to repay  the loan in the event the borrower  did not and 
that such checks  would have shown that Miss W was unable to do so; 
find that Amigo  did act unfairly and/or unreasonably towards Miss W in some  other  
way. 
These findings lead me to conclude that Amigo unfairly and unreasonably accepted  Miss W 
as a guarantor  on this loan. As Miss W is being expected  to make repayments on a loan she 
shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor for, I think that she stands to lose out because 
of what Amigo did wrong.  
So Im upholding  Miss Ws complaint  and Amigo should  put things right.
fair compensation  what  Amigo needs to do to put things right for Miss  W
Ive carefully thought  about what Amigo should  do to put things right in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer bank in the position  they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt  taken place. In essence, in this case, this means Amigo putting Miss W 
in the position shed  now be in if she hadnt  unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a 
guarantor on this loan.
the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
Miss W should  never have been  accepted as a guarantor on this loan in the first place. As 
this is the case,  it is unfair and unreasonable for her to have to make any loan payments. So 
Ref: DRN384753920to start with Amigo should release  Miss W from any obligations  under the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement and then terminate  it.  
Ive not seen anything,  either  in the information  provided prior to my provisional  decision or 
in the responses  to it, to suggest  that Miss W has made any payments to this loan. But if she 
has made any payments,  Amigo  should  refund them. And as Miss W will have lost the use of 
any funds used to make any loan payments, I now think that Amigo needs to refund to her, 
I think that she should be compensated for this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  I see no reason  to 
depart from our usual  approach here and I think awarding 8% per year simple  interest,  on 
any loan payments that were made, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Miss Ws credit file
Miss W has provided us with a copy of her credit file and Ive seen a number of quotation 
search entries from Amigo  on it. Despite being  asked to do so in my provisional decision, 
Amigo still hasnt provided an explanation  of what these searches are. It previously said that 
Miss W is its customer and these  searches  are necessary to help manage  the account  as it 
is in arrears. 
I remain of the view that this explanation lacks clarity and I dont know  if these searches 
were necessary. But, in any event,  as I think that Miss W should be released from the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement and shouldnt have  to make any loan payments, I dont 
think that she is in arrears to Amigo. 
So I think that its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case,  for Amigo to 
remove any information recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a result of this loan. 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Amigo acting unfairly and unreasonably  
towards Miss W caused  
As well as unwinding any wrongdoing caused  by the guarantee and indemnity agreement, 
I also have the power  to make an award to reflect the emotional  and practical  impact  
Amigos actions have  had on Miss W.
Our website  contains  detailed  examples of distress and inconvenience  awards  we might 
make and the reasons why might  make them. These  are set out in different categories and 
levels  to show the range of awards  we make.
Ive carefully considered  whether Amigo should  make an additional payment to Miss W with 
reference to these distress and inconvenience awards and categories.
Miss W contacted Amigo, in writing (in her letter of complaint),  to explain that she had a 
mental health condition. She said that she was not in a fit mind, not mentally  stable and 
events had been stressful for her. So, even though  Amigo might not have been aware of 
Miss Ws condition  when  it accepted  her as a guarantor, it was aware of it, or at the very 
least it ought to have been  alert to this possibility,  when it sought to enforce the guarantee.  
Ref: DRN384753921As this is the case, Miss W wouldve suffered the stress  of being asked to pay a 
considerable amount of money  which my investigation has concluded (and Amigos  later 
budget assessments  appears to accept) she had no means of repaying  at a time where 
she was already suffering mentally. And as Ive explained, I cant see that Amigo did 
anything to mitigate the potential risks of causing Miss W additional stress when pursuing  
the guarantee and indemnity agreement against  her.
Having considered all of this in the round, I think that Amigos actions while pursuing the 
guarantee on this loan caused Miss W a substantial  amount of distress, inconvenience,  
anxiety and suffering.
Our website  sets out a compensation range of between £500  and £2000 where a consumer 
has suffered substantial distress and inconvenience.  As I dont think that Amigo  was aware,  
or that it ought  to have been  aware,  of Miss Ws condition  at the time the guarantee was 
provided, I think an award at the lower end of this scale  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.  
So having  carefully considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws 
complaint, Im awarding Miss W £500 for the distress and inconvenience that Amigos 
actions in acting  unfairly  and unreasonably towards  her caused.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of     
Miss Ws complaint for Amigo to put things  right by:
releasing Miss W from all obligations  under the guarantee  and indemnity agreement  
and then terminating it;
notifying the borrower that Miss W is a guarantor on the loan;
refunding any loan payments that Miss W may have made;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they 
were paid by Miss W, if they were,  to the date of settlement;
removing any information  recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a result  of this loan;
paying Miss W a sum of £500 to reflect  the distress and inconvenience it acting 
unfairly and/or unreasonably towards  Miss W caused her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest.  Amigo  must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Ws complaint. Amigo  Loans Ltd should 
pay compensation to Miss W in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN384753922appendix  relevant  considerations  as set out in my provisional  decision
A regulatory framework 
B other key publications and good industry practice
A regulatory framework
Amigo provided this loan (as well as the initial advance) while it was authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like Amigo  
when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following  extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back  to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
Ref: DRN384753923CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
Ref: DRN384753924(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. It says: 
Creditworthiness assessment  where  there is a guarantor etc
(1)This rule applies if, in relation to a regulated  credit agreement:
(a)  an individual other than the borrower (in this rule referred to as the 
guarantor) is to provide a guarantee or an indemnity (or both); and
(b)  the lender  is required to undertake  an assessment  of 
the customer under CONC  5.2.1R  or CONC 5.2.2R .
(2)Before entering into the regulated credit agreement, the lender  must undertake  
an assessment of the potential for the guarantors  commitments  in respect of 
the regulated  credit  agreement to adversely impact the guarantors financial 
situation.
(3) A firm must consider sufficient information to enable it to make  a reasonable 
assessment under  this rule, taking  into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made.
CONC 5.2.6G contains  some guidance  on the scope of the assessment  of the guarantor.  
And it says:
(1)The assessment  of the guarantor does not need to be identical to the 
assessment undertaken in respect of the borrower, but should be sufficient in 
depth and scope having regard to the potential  obligations  which  might fall on the 
guarantor.
(2)The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce the obligation  on 
the lender to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 
5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded  of the rule in CONC 5.3.4R  that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based  primarily or solely  on the value  of 
any security provided  by the borrower.
Ref: DRN384753925CONC 4 sets out a firms obligations,  in relation to the provision of information, prior to 
contracting with consumers. A firm is required to provide adequate explanations when 
providing loans.  The additional explanations firms  are required to provide to guarantors  are 
set out in CONC 4.2.22R. It says:  
Credit agreements where there is a guarantor  etc
(1)This rule applies if:
(a)a firm is to enter into a regulated credit agreement; and
(b)an individual other than the borrower (in this rule referred to as the 
guarantor) is to provide a guarantee or an indemnity (or both) in relation 
to the regulated credit agreement
(2)The firm must, before  making the regulated credit agreement, provide the 
guarantor with an adequate explanation of the matters in (3) in order to place the 
guarantor in a position to make  an informed decision as to whether to act as the 
guarantor in relation to the regulated credit agreement.
(3)The matters are:
(a)the circumstances in which the guarantee  or the indemnity (or both) might 
be called  on; and
(b)the implications for the guarantor of the guarantee or the indemnity (or 
both) being called on.
(4)For the purposes of (2), the rules and guidance listed in (5) apply as if:
(a)references to the customer were  references  to the guarantor;  and
(b)references to CONC  4.2.5R were references to this rule.
(5)The rules and guidance are:
(a)CONC 4.2.6G to CONC 4.2.7AG ;
CONC 4.2.6G (referred  to above) says:
The explanation provided by a lender  or a credit  broker under CONC 4.2.5 R should enable  
the customer to make  a reasonable  assessment as to whether the customer  can afford 
the credit  and to understand  the key associated risks.
[Note: paragraph 3.3 (box) of ILG]
CONC 4.2.7G (also  referred to above) says:
In deciding on the level and extent of explanation  required by CONC 4.2.5 R, 
the lender or credit broker should consider (and each of them should ensure that anyone 
acting on its behalf  should consider), to the extent appropriate to do so, factors including:
(1)the type of credit  being sought;
Ref: DRN384753926(2)the amount  and duration of credit  to be provided;
(2A) the actual and potential costs of the credit;
(2B) the risk to the customer  arising from the credit  (the risk to the customer  is likely 
to be greater the higher the total cost of the credit relative to the customers financial 
situation);
(2C) the purpose of the credit, if the lender or (as the case may be) the credit broker 
knows what that purpose is;
(3)to the extent it is evident and discernible,  the customers level of understanding 
of the agreement, and of the information and the explanation  provided about the 
agreement; and
(4)the channel  or medium through which the credit transaction  takes place.
[Note: paragraph 3.4 of ILG]
Finally CONC  3 sets out a firms  obligations  when communicating with its customers. And     
CONC 3.3.2R contains general guidance regarding the clarity  of a firms communications 
with customers. It says:
A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion:
(1)uses plain and intelligible language;
(2) is easily legible (or, in the case of any information given orally,  clearly audible)
Ref: DRN384753927B other key publications and good industry practice 
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers have to 
adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive explained, Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
the proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work  was provided  on page four of the letter.  
The section entitled Additional focus for firms  providing guarantor  lending  said:
As well as the areas of focus above,  we will also prioritise our supervisory work with firms  
that provide guarantor loans in the following  area: 
Payments made by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed  that many guarantors  make at least  one 
repayment and the proportion of guarantors making payments is growing. We want  to 
Ref: DRN384753928understand the root causes for this increase,  and whether firms  are conducting  adequate  
affordability assessments. We are also concerned that guarantors  may not fully understand 
how likely it is that they will be called upon  to make a payment. So, as well as our broad  
portfolio-wide work on relending, we will start a piece of complementary work on guarantor 
lending. This will establish whether  potential guarantors  have  enough information  to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
the FCA Executive  Director of Supervisions (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit 
Summit, London, on 21 March 2019  
The FCAs Executive  Director  of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit  Summit, which  
took place on 21 March 2019,  entitled  What can the consumer credit sector expect from the 
FCA? . 
The speech  reiterated much of what was said in the High Cost Credit  portfolio strategy  letter 
(set out above) issued on 6 March  2019.  And in his speech the Executive Director of 
Supervision said:
Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of guarantor loans by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these have 
more than doubled since 2016.  
While these products provide an opportunity  for those with thin credit  files - poor or limited 
credit history  - we do have concerns.  Concerns about affordability. Recent work we have  
done in this area showed that many guarantors are making  at least 1 payment and the 
proportion of guarantors  making these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal  evidence that guarantors may not understand how likely it is 
that they will be called upon to make  a payment. Our work will therefore focus on 
Ref: DRN384753929affordability and on understanding whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.  
We have already amended certain  rules  to ensure that the protections they provide to 
borrowers also extend to guarantors, for example  rules requiring forbearance, pre-
contractual explanations and fair treatment. In assessing creditworthiness,  we have clarified 
that firms must undertake  a reasonable assessment of the potential for the guarantors 
commitment to have a significant adverse  impact  on their financial  situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published guidance on our view of what  
constitutes enforcement of the guarantee  under  the CCA  in practice this means  we 
expect firms to provide guarantors with adequate  notice before exercising a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions  over the level of interest  rates charged on these products 
considering that these  guarantors are deemed to be credit worthy,  we will therefore be 
considering this and the business models  of these firms.
Ref: DRN3847539