K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
lent to him. 
background 
Between April 2015 and May 2017, Mr Y took five loans out with Sunny. His borrowing 
history is set out below:  
From the information provided to me, I understand there is an outstanding balance on loan 
5. 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 14/04/2015 29/09/2015 6 £600.00
2 18/12/2016 05/04/2017 6 £200.00
3 14/01/2017 05/04/2017 6 £300.00
4 24/02/2017 05/04/2017 6 £500.00
5 30/05/2017 outstanding 6 £750.00
Our adjudicator thought that that there was quite a bit of time between  Mr Y taking loans 1 
and 2. So he treated the lending as two separate  loan chains. He thought the complaint 
should be upheld  in respect  of loan 5 only. 
Sunny accepted that view and offered to settle  the complaint  on that basis.  Mr Y didnt 
agree. He said that he thought Sunny had irresponsibly lent more  than one loan and he 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the decision.  So, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr Y could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN39920402the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr Y could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ys complaint.
First of all, I agree with our adjudicator that the loans Mr Y took out constitute  two separate 
chains of borrowing. 
As I said above, early  in the relationship, I would expect the lender  to rely on the information  
Mr Y provided and that which  it had obtained itself.  For loan 1, Sunny  asked  Mr Y about his 
income and expenditure and from the information  provided, it would have  reasonably 
appeared to Sunny that the loans were  sustainably affordable. 
Similarly, when Mr Y applied for loans  2 to 4, this was still relatively early in the lending  
relationship and Sunny was once again entitled  to rely on the information Mr Y had provided. 
I can see that Mr Ys disposable  income was reported to exceed £1,000 per month. And so 
on the face of it, the loans would have reasonably appeared  to be sustainably  affordable.  
However, by loan 5, I think Sunny should have done  more.  By this point, Mr Y had borrowed 
£750 from Sunny,  which was significantly  greater  than the £200 he borrowed around six 
months earlier. At this point, Mr Y had also missed  some  repayments in respect of his earlier  
loans. In addition  to that, he had applied for loan 4 on the same  day as his repayments fell 
due for loans 2 and 3. Putting all of these things together,  I think Sunny should have 
probably realised that Mr Y would struggle to sustainably repay loan 5. I dont think  it should 
have agreed to lend loan 5. 
On that basis, I agree  with our adjudicator. Sunny will need to take action to put things right 
in respect of loan 5. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Ref: DRN39920403Sunny shouldnt have given Mr Y loan 5. 
As I said above, it appears there  is an outstanding balance in respect of this loan. If that is 
the case, if Sunny sold the outstanding debt to a third party,  it should  buy it back if it can 
and then follow the steps set out below.  If  it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
a)Sunny  must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance of loan 5, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr Y as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan.  If this results in Mr Y having made  overpayments  then Sunny 
must refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
b)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should  try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr Y. It must not pursue outstanding balances made 
up of principal it has already written-off. 
c)Sunny  must remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ys credit  file in relation 
to loan 5.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr Y 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If Sunny and Mr Y do agree a repayment plan then I remind Sunny of its obligation  to treat 
Mr Y fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding this complaint . Elevate  Credit International 
Limited must  put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3992040