K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wont refund disputed withdrawals made from 
his account.
background
Mr R says that he has been a victim  of fraud. Between November 2017 and June 2018 he 
thinks a total of around £25,000 has been taken  from his accounts. During that time Mr R 
has had six different cards on one account  and three on another.
Barclays investigated and decided not to refund  the disputed transactions. It felt that Mr R 
had most  likely made or authorised them.
Mr R didnt agree and asked us to investigate.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude  that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently and was persuaded 
they were most likely made and authorised by Mr R. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said, in summary, that Barclays:
didnt close an account when it said it would
had recorded  the wrong  address for him in its records
hadnt told him who ordered all the debit cards or how many times the PIN had been 
changed
moved money between his accounts  so that the debit card could be used to make 
withdrawals
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the adjudicator  previously  set out and for much  the same reasons. 
relevant considerations
The disputed transactions were made  between November 2017 and June 2018. The 
regulations relevant are both the Payment Services Regulations 2009 for those transactions  
before 13 January 2018 and the Payment Service Regulations 2017 for those after that date. 
In short,  Barclays can hold Mr R liable for the disputed items if the evidence suggests that he 
most likely made or authorised them himself.  So my primary concern is to come  to a view 
about whether  or I not I think  Mr R authorised the payments.
new account and transfers
Mr R says that the problems started after he inherited some  money.  Barclays opened a new 
current account, a savings account  and an instant access ISA for him. He is unhappy that 
the bank didnt close the old current account when the new one was opened.
Ref: DRN35789062I have looked  carefully  at Mr Rs bank  statements  for both current accounts.  I see that Mr R 
paid his inheritance into the old current account  towards the end of October 2017. A few 
days later he opened  the savings  and ISA accounts  and transferred most of the money into 
them. Mr R says that this is when the current account should have been closed.
But it wasnt  possible to close the account then. Following the transfers to the savings 
accounts there was still a credit balance of just over £400 on the account. Mr R has 
subsequently told us that this money was left in the account so that he could  use the debit 
card linked to the account to buy a new mobile phone. Barclays has also said that Mr R 
wanted to use his debit card while  waiting  for the new one (for the new account) to arrive.  I 
see that Mr R did continue to use his debit card on the old current  account for a further 
three weeks to make  purchases and for cash withdrawals.  Transfers into this account were  
made from the everyday saver to cover the withdrawals.
Mr R has said that he didnt make  the transfers  between his accounts.  Most of these were 
made through telephone  banking or at a Barclays Bank Assisted Service Device  (ASD). 
Mr R has said that he didnt provide the telephone  instructions, but he has since  listened to 
the some  of the calls and accepts that he did make  them. He has also said that he has only 
used ASD machines  a few times  because  he doesnt understand how to use them  properly. 
Despite this, Im satisfied that, however  the transfers were  made,  the money was only 
moved between his own accounts.  Whilst I appreciate that Mr R thinks that thinks that the 
transfers could  have made it easier for a third party to use his debit  card for withdrawals, I 
dont think this happened here and I find that Mr R hasnt suffered any financial loss from 
those transfers.
Mr R says that he never received the first debit card for his new account. I think this explains 
why he continued  to use the old account for a period of three weeks.  So, in summary, I 
conclude that Barclays didnt make a mistake  in not closing  the old current  account  sooner 
than it did.
 
debit cards
Mr R has had a number  of debit cards on his account. He is concerned about who ordered 
the new cards and why. He also says that, at times,  Barclays had an incorrect address for 
him recorded in its records.
Ive reviewed the card history and I find that there  has never been two cards  active on one 
account at any time.  So this means that only one card, linked to one account, could be used 
on that account. Barclays cancelled the existing card before it issued a new one.
I accept that Mr R never received the first debit card for his new current account.  No 
transactions were  made using that card so Mr R hasnt incurred any loss.
I also accept that Mr R didnt receive  a card issued to him in early January 2018.  This card 
was used to make online purchases only. A PIN was not used with it. Barclays  has already  
refunded all the transactions made with this card. It has been  cancelled and I cant ask it to 
do anymore.
Other than these instances, Mr R accepts that he has made genuine  transactions  himself 
with the other cards.
Ref: DRN35789063mobile banking  service
Mr R says that he doesnt use the mobile  banking service because  he doesnt really  
understand it. But I find that it was set up several  months before the disputed  transactions  
started. It was authenticated by text messages sent to Mr Rs mobile phone. Mr R suggests  
that his phone may have been stolen.  If it had been then I would have expected  the number 
to have been blocked by the service  provider. So I dont  think that the mobile  banking  was 
set up on any other  phone than Mr Rs mobile phone.
An application code  is required  to log in to the service. Only Mr R could know this number. 
He has said that he hasnt given it to anyone  else. The mobile service was used frequently 
during the time that Mr R alleges  the fraudulent activity took place. On balance,  I cant see 
that an unknown  third party could have had access to this service  without having Mr Rs own 
personal log on information. 
As I consider it more likely than not that Mr R logged in to the mobile  banking  service I think  
he might  have seen any fraudulently  activity as soon as it began.  So I would have expected  
him to report  it to Barclays far sooner than he has done.
withdrawals from the account
Im satisfied from the evidence Barclays has provided that whoever made the transactions  
had both the genuine card and PIN. I say this because Barclays has shown that the 
transactions were  made and authenticated at ATMs  or point of sale machines where the 
genuine chip in the card was read and the correct PIN was entered.
So Ive gone  on to consider the possible explanations for how these disputed transactions 
were made using the genuine card and PIN. These are:
Mr R received the card and PIN and used them himself
Someone,  with Mr Rs authority, used his card and PIN
Someone was able to intercept or take Mr Rs card and PIN and use them, without his 
consent 
During the three weeks that Mr Rs old account was open, he has disputed  two card 
payments - one for £52.98 to a supermarket and the other for £10 to a charity.  Mr R used his 
card to withdraw cash the day before, the same day and the day after these disputed  
payments. Given that Mr R didnt notice  his card was missing at any point and he was 
regularly using it, I think that these transactions were genuine  and perhaps,  with the passage 
of time, Mr R has forgotten that he made them. 
The first card to be used on the new current account was used to make a cash  withdrawal 
on the same  day that the old current account was closed. Mr R suggests that Barclays sent 
this debit card to an address that he hadnt given to the bank. But I think  that Mr R received 
this card.  I say this because he changed  the PIN to one of his own choosing on the day 
Barclays closed his old account. It closed the account by transferring the money  (credit  
balance) on the old account  to the new account. 
Mr R says that he didnt  make the first transaction with the card  a £250 cash withdrawal. 
But he accepts that he made three cash withdrawals and a purchase the following day. If Mr 
R hadnt changed the PIN then I find it difficult to see how he could have made  any of these 
transactions the following  day, because he wouldnt have known the PIN. He also disputes 
Ref: DRN35789064two cash withdrawals made that next day, one of which  was made just three minutes  before 
Mr R made  a genuine withdrawal. This pattern is repeated for all the transactions that Mr R 
has disputed and against all the different cards Mr R has had.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr R made 
or authorised the transactions. This is because:
I find that Mr R received the cards (except  for the two I have mentioned  above).  
He changed  the PIN on the day he asked  Barclays to close  the old account.
The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Rs genuine card and PIN, but theres no 
convincing explanation for how a third party could  have known Mr Rs PIN. He had 
changed it before the first withdrawal.
Mr R says that he hasnt given the card or PIN to anyone.
He used the card regularly for transactions, which  he doesnt dispute, and often on days,  
and even within minutes, of transactions that he has disputed.  Its unlikely someone 
couldve taken Mr Rs card from his pocket  without him noticing, used it and replaced it 
within minutes.
Mr R reviewed his banking  regularly  using the mobile banking service but didnt raise any 
concerns at that time.  I dont think an unknown third party could  access his mobile 
banking service.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr R authorised  the disputed 
withdrawals. It follows  that Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3578906