K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about five loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr R between January 2013  and 
November 2014.  
Heres a loan table setting out details of the loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment Deferrals
1 24/01/2013 15/02/2013 1 £150.00 £202.50
2 27/02/2013 15/04/2013 1 £200.00 £270.00 1
3 24/10/2013 18/11/2013 1 £200.00 £260.00
4 13/06/2014 01/09/2014 1 £250.00 £325.00 2
5 16/11/2014 n/a   debt sold 6 £360.00 £168.00
Mr R paid the first four loans - but he hasnt fully paid loan 5. 
When Mr R complained to Mr Lender it didnt agree that it had acted  irresponsibly. But it did 
say that as a gesture of goodwill it was prepared to make an offer in respect of loan 5.
Mr R didnt feel this offer went far enough  to resolve  things and he brought  his complaint to 
us. Mr R said that the loans left him with too little money to manage on which  meant he had 
to keep on borrowing, including taking loans with other lenders. He said Mr Lender shouldnt 
have given him these  unaffordable loans. 
Our adjudicators overall view was that she hadnt  seen enough to say it was unfair for 
Mr Lender to have provided  loans  1, 2 and 3 to Mr R. But she felt that the repayments on 
loan 4 were a significant proportion of Mr Rs income and so there  was a risk he wouldnt 
have been able to pay his existing  outgoings without having to borrow again. For these 
reasons, our adjudicator felt it was unlikely that Mr R wouldve been able to sustainably meet 
his repayments  for this loan  and any subsequent loans. So she thought Mr Lender 
shouldnt have given  Mr R loans  4 and 5.
To put things right our adjudicator recommended (Im briefly  summarising  here) that 
Mr Lender should  refund  the interest  and charges on loan 4 add 8% interest  and deduct from 
the amount it owes to Mr R anything  he still owes  towards  the outstanding capital balance  on 
loan 5. Our adjudicator also said Mr Lender should amend Mr Rs credit file to remove any 
negative information  about these loans.
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators  view that it shouldnt have lent loan 4 to Mr R. It 
said loan 4 was approved  around 7 months after the 3rd loan was repaid and so it was the 
start of a new chain  of borrowing.  And it carried out an additional income and expenditure 
assessment to ensure the loan was affordable. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
Ref: DRN30931782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN30931783Looking at loans  1-3, like our adjudicator,  I think that the amounts that Mr R needed  to repay 
wouldve seemed  relatively affordable compared  with the take home  pay hed declared. 
Given these repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Rs circumstances at the 
time, and his borrowing history at that time with Mr Lender, I dont  think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr R for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable  before  agreeing  the first three loans. So Im not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint about loans 1-3.
After paying loan 3 in November 2013,  Mr R didnt ask Mr Lender for any more money until 
he applied  to Mr Lender in June 2014  for loan 4. I agree that gap in lending  seems long 
enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr R mightve put his finances  in order during 
this period. So, when his borrowing started again,  he was effectively starting over.  And it was 
fair for Mr Lender to treat loan 4 as the start of a new chain of borrowing and assess his 
lending requests accordingly.
But as our adjudicator  explained, given the particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think 
that Mr Lender should reasonably have seen  that loan 4 was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. 
When he asked for loan 4, Mr Lenders own records show  it relied  on information that 
suggested Mr Rs income was £800 and his declared expenses  at that time were £200.   
So I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment of £360  that Mr R had to 
make to pay loan 4 was such  a significant proportion of his take home pay that in reality,  this 
loan, and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
And this view is borne out by the fact that in the event, Mr R needed extra  time to pay loan 4. 
And he quickly had repayment problems after taking  loan 5. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr Lender has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. I think its fair that Mr Lender  has offered to put things right in respect  of 
loan 5. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think it shouldve realised that it was unfair to 
provide loan 4 to him. So Mr Lender  should  also put things right for Mr R in respect of loan 4.
This means  Im upholding the complaint about  loans 4 and 5 and Mr Lender should put 
things right. 
Ref: DRN30931784putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender should  buy back the debt it sold to a third party so it can carry out these directions 
 or otherwise tell the third party that it needs  to carry out these steps  to put things right.
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan 4. For clarity this includes all 
moneys paid for interest, fees and charges.  
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement

remove any outstanding interest and charges from loan 5 and treat any repayments 
made by Mr R for loan 5 as payments towards  the capital. This would include any 
fees and charges payments (Ive noted here,  for example, that Mr R has paid £33 
towards the loan via a third party and incurred £17 initial administration  costs.) 
when Mr Lender works out what it owes Mr R, it can first apply this towards offsetting 
any outstanding  capital balance Mr R owes on loan 5. 

If there  is a surplus then it should return this to Mr R. (in the event that there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I remind Mr Lender that it should  take a sympathetic 
view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R)
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3093178