K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc damaged her laptop  whilst it was being repaired 
by its agents following  Mrs Ms home  insurance claim for accidental  damage. 
background
Mrs M had home insurance  with Allianz  that ended at the end of November 2017. Shortly  
before that point  she made a claim  for damage  to her laptop  under the accidental  damage to 
contents cover provided by the policy. The lid of the laptop  had been  closed whilst a pen was 
on the keyboard which had damaged the display. 
The laptop  was assessed by Allianzs  repairer.  It reported  to Allianz that the LCD screen 
has impact  point in the top right hand corner of screen with multiple cracks across display, 
resulting in distorted image  displayed. Internally  there are no signs of liquid or physical 
damage to the components.Requires replacement Display.  The repairer noted that there 
was a gap of almost  2 years between the last use date and the date of the incident. Allianz 
referred the claim to its technical team for review.
Two weeks passed and Mrs M chased  Allianz  about  progress.  Allianz told Mrs M the claim 
was still with its technical team but said it would  let her know in a few days time what  was 
happening. Allianz chased  its technical  team. A further week or so passed and Mrs M rang 
Allianz again because shed not heard anything.  Allianz said it was still waiting for its 
engineers report.  That was eventually  provided in the middle of January 2018. The report 
said the laptop showed the screen hadnt  been displaying  correctly  in March 2015.  It also 
said it was unable to determine when the laptop was last powered on, only the last time it 
was booted up and used.  Allianz authorised the repair to go ahead.  
The laptop  was returned to Mrs M in late January 2018 (two months  after the policy  with 
Allianz had ended and Mrs M had arranged cover elsewhere). On 19 February 2018, Mrs M 
contacted Allianz  to report that there were lines across the LCD screen.  She made a claim 
under the repairers warranty that the laptop was still faulty and the laptop was collected from 
her about  a week later. Neither  Mrs M nor the repairer did anything  further until Mrs M 
complained about six months later. An inspection was carried out by the repairer a few days 
later that said the damage was unrelated to the first claim so wouldnt have been covered by 
the warranty from the first repair anyway.  The repairer  said there was corrosion on the logic 
board (caused by a liquid  spillage) which was causing problems with the battery and display. 
The repairer advised this was new damage so Mrs M should raise a new claim (with her new 
home insurer). 
Allianz informed Mrs M that the new damage  was unrelated to the old damage so wasnt 
covered by the repair warranty. Mrs M complained  and said shed only had the laptop for 
about a week  before it broke again. And she said the liquid damage mustve occurred whilst 
the laptop was with the repairer (for the first repair). She said Allianz should fix the laptop 
because itd had it for so long. 
Allianz said it wasnt possible to confirm from the damage  present  on the laptop that itd 
occurred whilst with its repairer. For the delays associated with her claim it paid her 
compensation of £250. It maintained its position  that the liquid damage was a separate 
incident which needed to be treated as a new claim with her new insurer. Mrs M said that 
she wanted the cost of repairing the liquid damage to be authorised by Allianz. 
Ref: DRN33707212Mrs M complained to this service in early 2019. Our investigator  looked  into her complaint 
and said it wasnt possible to say when the liquid  damage occurred. He said if Mrs M hadnt 
caused the secondary damage then it wouldnt be fair to make  her raise a new claim,  pay 
another excess and have  it on her claims record. He said that as neither party had been able 
to provide him with persuasive  evidence either  way as to what  happened he thought  Allianz 
should pay Mrs M a sum equivalent to 50% of the retail cash  price of the laptop. 
Mrs M accepted our investigators  findings by Allianz didnt. It said there was no evidence 
the damage was caused whilst  the laptop was in its care so it shouldnt  have  to pay anything  
towards its replacement. It said it was the responsibility of the insured, Mrs M, to show  the 
damage had arisen either through an insured peril or the actions of its agents. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision earlier in March.  I didnt  
think the complaint  should be upheld. I made the following provisional findings:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs M, I dont think her complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
It is Mrs Ms responsibility  to show that the secondary damage occurred as a result of 
Allianzs failed  repair/carelessness. Its not for Allianz to show it didnt cause the damage.  
I can see that Mrs M managed to use the laptop  on its return in January/February 2018. I 
can also see that when  the repairer  reported to Allianz in early  December 2017 he said there 
were no signs of liquid damage. So there  was a window when it couldve occurred  
between the date of that report and 19 February  2018 which is when  Mrs M called Allianz  
again. 
I cant reasonably make  Allianz pay for damage it has no policy liability for or which  most 
likely wasnt caused by its agents.  Nor can I make it pay for damage that only couldve been 
caused by its agents.  In order to make Allianz pay to repair the laptop  I would  need  to see 
some evidence that the damage was likely caused by something Allianz did to the laptop 
whilst it was in its control.  Unfortunately for Mrs M, Ive not seen any. Comments were 
provided by the repairer in response  to our investigators enquiries. He said:  We inspected 
the unit again due to the new fault and this was caused by liquid damage  which was not 
present when we initially returned the unit. It was new damage. A new MLB was required 
as the liquid had damaged it. The [laptop]  was working when the PH received it back. The 
PH had the device  for about a month before  reporting it. 
I cant reasonably ignore  these comments. Mrs M has asserted the damage was caused by 
Allianzs repairer but the repairer  has stated that the liquid damage  wasnt  present when it 
returned the unit in early  2018. And Mrs M said the laptop was fine when initially returned  to 
her. Without providing any documentary evidence to support her assertion that it was 
Allianzs repairer that caused the damage  I cant fairly and reasonably make it repair  her 
laptop. 
Its my role to decide if Allianz has treated Mrs M fairly and reasonably  when dealing with her 
claim and I have to say I think it has. It has assessed the damage to the laptop  and 
concluded it wasnt related to the original damage  or caused by its repairers. I appreciate 
that Mrs M disagrees but, as she does, its her responsibility to provide evidence to show 
otherwise. Allianz  said the damage  was new and unrelated to the original claim so Mrs M 
would need to make a second claim to her current insurer and see if it would  accept it. I dont 
Ref: DRN33707213think that was unreasonable. Allianz was no longer  on risk (the policy  having lapsed  in 
November 2017) by the time Mrs M made  the second claim and, as it didnt think there was 
any evidence it was responsible for causing  the secondary damage, it has, reasonably in my 
view, declined to repair it. 
Allianz has accepted  that its customer service fell below the standard it likes to provide. It is 
without question that there were un-necessary delays. But Allianz has accepted that there 
were and has paid Mrs M compensation of £250  for any trouble and upset the shortcomings 
in its service caused her. I think thats fair and is in line with compensation awards this 
service has made in similar  circumstances. Indeed if this case  had passed across  my desk 
without any award of compensation having  already  been made then its unlikely Id have 
awarded any more.
Allianz responded to my provisional decision to say it had received it. It made no further 
comment. 
Mrs M replied to say she was disappointed  with my provisional decision. She also said shed 
received poor customer service from Allianz  and that it was factually incorrect  to say that 
there was a two year delay between the damage  being caused and her notifying Allianz that 
she wanted to make a claim. She also said that shed had the laptop for such a short period 
of time between it being returned after the repair and it being collected  again that it was 
impossible for her to have  caused the liquid damage. She said that one of the repairers she 
spoke to told her the liquid damage wasnt new so it cant have been caused during the two 
weeks it was back in her possession. Mrs M queries whether this conversation was 
recorded. Finally Mrs M said that it was unacceptable that the repair took so long and that 
£250 compensation was inadequate. 
Mrs M said the laptop still hadnt been  returned and she asked that it was with immediate  
effect. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points that Mrs M made in response to my provisional decision but, 
whilst I do appreciate it will come as a disappointment to her, theyve not persuaded me to 
change my mind about her complaint. 
In my provisional decision I said that Allianzs  repairer had noted a two year gap between  the 
last use date of the laptop  and the date of the incident. He didnt say thered been a two year 
gap between the damage being caused and the date of the claim.  
I note what Mrs M says about only having the laptop back in her possession  for 2 weeks  and 
so it wouldve been impossible for the damage  to have occurred in that time. But Im unable  
to agree that it was impossible as it would  only take a moment  to spill something  on a 
device to damage it. I set out in my provisional decision the repairers  view of the liquid 
damage, which was that it was new and post-dated the previous repair. Mrs M says that the 
repairer told her on the phone it was old damage.  
Ref: DRN33707214I appreciate Mrs M would like me to ask for a recording of her call with the repairer.  But I 
think its unlikely the third-party repairer  records their calls.  Accepting  for a minute that what  
Mrs M says is correct,  Ive reviewed the reports Allianz had access  to when it assessed her 
claim. The repairer told Allianz  that the liquid damage was new, and the report made during 
the first repair found there was no sign of liquid  damage. So the liquid damage  can only have  
occurred between the report made  during the first claim and the date the second claim was 
made (19 February 2018). And Im not persuaded that Mrs Ms account of what  she was told 
by the repairer  adds  to or detracts from that. There is a window  during  which  the liquid 
damage couldve occurred and during that time, the laptop was with both the repairer and 
Mrs M. 
And as its Mrs M that says the repairer caused  the damage so its her responsibility to show  
that the secondary damage occurred as a result of Allianzs failed repair/carelessness. And 
Im not persuaded, shes been  able to do so, regardless of anything she mayve been told by 
the repairer during a phone call. Its also worth stating that by the time the repairer and 
Mrs M spoke  to each other  the laptop  had been  with the repairer  for six months anyway so it 
couldnt be said the damage  was new or recent by that point. 
I appreciate that Mrs M thinks  that the repair  took an unacceptably  long time and that £250  
compensation was inadequate for the delays and poor customer  service she received,  but I 
set out in my provisional decision my thoughts on why I thought the compensation paid by 
Allianz was fair in all the circumstances. Mrs M hasnt said anything  in reply that persuades 
me my provisional findings were wrong  in that regard.  
Mrs M says that Allianz still has the laptop. It should arrange to return it to her without delay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3370721