K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the service he received  from Lloyds Bank PLC.
background
On the 14 January 2019 Mr M telephoned  Lloyds to discuss  the overdraft fees being applied  
to his account. Hes unhappy with the service he received. He feels the advisor  frustrated his 
attempts to discuss the account reasonably, and that the call lasted for an unacceptably  long 
time with nothing being done. Hes unhappy  the advisor didnt carry out a financial review. 
And hes also told us that when he asked  to speak to a manager the call was cut off. He then 
had to go through security questions with the advisor again, despite having  already cleared 
security with Lloyds automated service and the same advisor previously. 
To put things right Mr M wants Lloyds to refund the overdraft fees applied to his account, 
and pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.
When Mr M complained to Lloyds it sent him a letter telling him that hed already had its final 
decision on the matter  and accepted a settlement awarded by our service last year. But its 
since acknowledged that Mr M has raised a new issue  here that wasnt  considered  under the 
previous complaint.
Our investigator listened to the calls but felt that overall Lloyds had handled them 
satisfactorily. He explained that our service cant ask Lloyds to change  its security protocols. 
And noted it was frustrating for Mr M that Lloyds hadnt initially  recognised his complaint 
about these calls was a new complaint. But said he didnt think  this warranted a payment of 
compensation.
Mr M disagrees. Hes unhappy that Lloyds  didnt acknowledge his complaint  until our service  
got involved. And feels that the investigator overlooked the fact Lloyds has a duty to treat 
customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. He says Lloyds are aware of 
his circumstances  but ignored the need to carry out a financial review as soon as possible. 
He also thinks the advisor  on the call abused  its security policy.  So the case  has been 
passed to me to decide.
As Ive stated above, Mr M brought a separate complaint  to our service about  Lloyds last 
year. Like our investigator, Im only looking at the new events hes complained about here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know Mr M will be very disappointed,  but overall Ive reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator did here. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN31588922Ive listened to the calls and I dont  think the advisor  Mr M spoke to was trying to avoid 
dealing with his concerns,  or talked to him inappropriately. I can hear Mr M was frustrated 
that when he got through to them he was asked some security  questions.  I understand hed 
already provided  security  information to Lloyds  automated service. So I appreciate  why he 
felt this was unnecessary.  But the advisor  explained  to him that Lloyds process  required 
them to ask further security questions. And its not my role to tell Lloyds what  its process  
should be in these situations.  So I cant say that Mr M was treated unreasonably in this 
respect.
The call didnt move  very quickly, which I understand caused Mr M concern as he was at 
work. But my impression is that this was as a result of the two-way dialogue between  Mr M 
and the advisor.  I dont  think  the advisor was trying to be obstructive or prevent Mr M from 
completing a financial  review. They explained  to him that the process they had to follow was 
to firstly  understand  his situation, and then to carry out the financial review.  And I think the 
questions the advisor  was asking were directed at trying to understand Mr Ms situation.
I appreciate that because  of the background to this complaint Mr M found it particularly 
frustrating that he had to discuss his situation  in full with the advisor. However I dont think it 
would be fair for me to expect the advisor  to be familiar with this background without asking 
some questions of Mr M. And I can hear that they later put him on hold whilst they looked  at 
his account notes, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M became frustrated with the length of time the call had gone on for. And he told the 
advisor he didnt  have time to continue and carry out the financial review  now.  The advisor  
offered to call him back later, but Mr M asked to speak to someone  senior.  It seems  the call 
then got cut off. Its not clear why this happened. But I dont think it was intentional. And the 
advisor called  Mr M back shortly afterwards.
When they made this call-back, the advisor  asked Mr M to answer some security  questions 
before they could  continue their conversation. Mr M started to go through the security  
process, but then ended the call. Again I can understand why he might  have  felt this wasnt  
necessary. But the advisor was following Lloyds security protocol. And its common  for 
businesses to have  measures like this in place. 
Lloyds has acknowledged  it didnt initially recognise  Mr Ms complaint about these calls as a 
new complaint. It felt this was part of the previous complaint Ive referenced. I understand 
this was distressing  for Mr M. But I can also see that he raised  his concerns with us on the 
same day these calls took place. And that he and Lloyds discussed that hed be speaking to 
our service  about it. So Im satisfied  that he was still able to pursue this complaint  with our 
help.
Overall I agree with our investigator  that the calls themselves were generally  handled  
satisfactorily. As Ive said, I appreciate  why they caused Mr M so much frustration. But I 
dont think he was treated  unfairly on them. And I havent seen or heard anything  to suggest 
that Lloyds isnt willing to carry out a financial review for him. It reiterated in a letter  dated  12 
February 2019 that Mr M can call its Customer Support Unit if he still needs  assistance. I 
appreciate given his experience here that this process might take longer than Mr M feels it 
should. But I dont  think its unreasonable for the bank  to take steps  to ensure it has a 
thorough understanding of his situation.
Ref: DRN31588923my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3158892