K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Legal & General Insurance Limited (Legal & General) declined a 
personal possessions  claim  she made  on her contents policy.
background
Mrs C and her husband  hired  a van, and she left her bag in the foot-well  of the vans  cabin 
because it wouldnt fit in the glove compartment. When the van was being unloaded, Mrs Cs 
bag was stolen.  Mrs C said she and her husband didnt see the theft because they were 
standing at the rear and the side of the van, using the tail-lift  to unload it. She said the keys 
had to be left in the ignition  in order to operate the tail-lift, so the van couldnt be locked. 
Mrs C made  a claim for the theft of her bag under her personal  possessions cover.  But 
Legal & General said it wouldnt meet the claim  it said it wont cover loss from an 
unattended vehicle. And Mrs C wasnt  covered because she hadnt  witnessed the theft 
taking place. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into the case.  
He didnt think Legal & General had declined the claim fairly.  He explained Legal & General 
had said unattended  was any situation where  Mrs C was unable to intervene  or deter  the 
theft, whether successful  in doing  so or not. He thought Mrs C, by standing close  to the van, 
was in sufficient  enough a position to intervene  or deter the theft  so hadnt left the van 
unattended. 
Legal & General disagreed, so the case  has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was the vehicle unattended, or not?
Theres dispute in this case on the definition  of unattended. The policy doesnt include a 
specific definition, so when giving his opinion our investigator took one into account made by 
Lord Denning   in Starfire  Diamond Rings Ltd v Angel. 
Lord Denning  said, for a vehicle to be attended  there must be someone able to keep it 
under observation, that is, in a position  to observe any attempt to interfere with it, and who is 
so placed as to have  a reasonable prospect of preventing any unauthorised interference  with 
it.
Legal & General has told us it defines unattended  as where  a customer  would not be 
able to intervene in an incident such as theft, whether they were successful or not. And it 
thinks because Mrs C didnt witness the incident, she wasnt in a position to intervene. But in 
its final response, Legal & General seems to suggest Mrs C was in attendance. Its letter  said 
whilst you were in attendance with the vehicle you did not witness the actually [sic] 
theft incident occurring. 
Ref: DRN37226182And looking solely at the definition  Legal & General  has now supplied,  Im not persuaded 
that simply because Mrs C or her husband didnt witness the incident, they werent close 
enough to have had any prospect of intervening. 
In her testimony Mrs C has said someone  (either her or her husband)  was with the van at all 
times, operating the tail-lift. And I think its reasonable to say that if a person is standing next 
to or at the rear of a vehicle, or operating part of it, they are more  likely than not going to be 
close enough to be able to intervene  in an incident, such  as theft.
At the very least,  Im satisfied standing to the side or at the rear of a vehicle is enough to 
keep it under observation, and be seen as a general deterrent to any potential thief  as 
there would be a reasonable prospect of preventing any unauthorised interference. So 
having considered the definition set out by Lord Denning   and the definition 
Legal & General has said it applies, I dont  think it declined  Mrs Cs claim fairly. 
the exclusion Legal & General applied  and its investigation of Mrs Cs claim 
The exclusion explains  Legal & General will not cover:
-Loss  of property from an unattended road vehicle, unless the property is 
concealed in a glove compartment, locked luggage compartment or locked boot 
and all windows and sunroofs are securely closed and all doors are locked.
For the exclusion to be applicable property has to be lost from an unattended vehicle. And 
for the reasons Ive given  above I dont think the vehicle  was unattended  so I dont think 
Mrs Cs bag was. And even if Legal  & General think the bag was left unattended, Im 
satisfied the vehicle wasnt. So thats  why I dont think this exclusion  applies to Mrs Cs 
claim.
Although it declined the claim  Legal & General doesnt  appear to have fully investigated all of 
the circumstances, despite having had time to do so. Its explained that we may not have 
investigated the file fully by way of requesting photographs of the said vehicle, the fact 
remains we cannot  simply ignore a relevant exclusion  which  is applicable.
But because Im not persuaded the exclusion  is applicable, and considering its already had 
opportunity to have  carried  out an investigation   but appears not to have done so  I think 
Legal & General should settle Mrs Cs claim in-line with the remaining policy terms and 
exclusions.
 
I can appreciate this has been a frustrating experience for Mrs C, so I agree with our 
investigator who thought Legal & General should compensate her. He awarded £100, and I 
think this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited 
to settle the claim  subject  to the remaining policy terms and exclusions,  and compensate 
Mrs C £100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Ref: DRN37226183Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3722618