K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that NRAM Limited charges an unfair interest rate on his mortgage,  that it 
wrongly said he was in arrears, and that when he has experienced financial difficulty in the 
past it hasnt treated  him fairly.
background 
Mr H took out his mortgage  with the former Northern Rock bank many  years ago. He later 
took out further borrowing  of £5,000  for home improvements, running over the same term as 
the main mortgage.  And in 2007  he converted the mortgage to interest only terms.
For a time Mr H was on a fixed interest  rate on the main mortgage, though the secured loan 
has always been charged at 1% over the standard  variable  rate (SVR).
When the former Northern  Rock  collapsed, parts of its mortgage book  including Mr Hs 
mortgage  were incorporated into the government-owned vehicle  which held the assets  of 
the collapsed  bank. This vehicle was NRAM, and NRAM  has owned Mr Hs mortgage ever 
since.
NRAM doesnt offer new fixed and variable interest  rates. So when Mr Hs fixed  rate came to 
an end his mortgage moved to NRAMs SVR. Until 2014 he was paying the SVR, and from 
2014 onwards  has been  paying the loyalty discount  rate, which is 0.25% below SVR. The 
further borrowing  has remained  on 1% above  SVR throughout.
Until 2016, NRAM didnt  change its SVR. Between 2016 and 2018, the SVR first reduced 
then rose again as the Bank  of England base rate changed.
Mr H has in the past been in financial difficulties leading to arrears.  He is self-employed  and 
wasnt able to work for a while due to an injury,  and has also had problems with variable 
levels of work coming to his business. He complains about how NRAM has treated him when  
hes had financial difficulties  he says hes been  harassed, NRAM has been  rude to him on 
the phone  and has asked for personal information about his circumstances.
In 2016, Mr H says he was trying to move his mortgage to another lender. He was 
maintaining his payments by this point.  But he discovered that NRAM wasnt  apportioning 
the payments  he was making  so one part of his account was in credit  and another was in 
arrears by the same amount. He says this prevented him moving  his mortgage to another  
lender. NRAM accepted  this was an error. It corrected the payments and removed the 
arrears from his credit file, and offered £50 compensation.
Mr H also complains that his interest rate is too high. Hes been paying  around 4.5% since  
2009, even though Bank of England base rate has been at historic lows,  and other  people  
he knows have been paying only around 1.5%  on their mortgages. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part. He said that it was likely  the credit  file 
mistake wasnt  the only reason Mr H couldnt move his mortgage in 2016.  But he accepted  
that Mr H had been upset by it when he discovered  it, and he said NRAM should  increase 
the compensation it had offered to £200.  But he thought NRAM had acted fairly in trying  to 
discuss Mr Hs situation with him when hed experienced financial difficulty  in the past. And 
he didnt think NRAM could be forced to offer lower interest rates, or that its SVR was unfair. 
So Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Ref: DRN30454102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H has been able to maintain his mortgage payments for the last few years,  
but he was in arrears  before that. I can understand why he didnt want  NRAM to contact him 
at what must have been a difficult time,  and why he didnt want to discuss  his personal 
situation or his finances.
But a mortgage is a commitment secured over Mr Hs home. If its not paid, the lender has 
the right to repossess his home  which could leave Mr H homeless. This is a very big step, 
and so the regulator makes it clear that repossession should  be a last resort, and a lender 
should first try and agree other ways for the mortgage to be paid.
Those other  options  include  things like reduced payment arrangements and changes to the 
mortgage agreement. But it wouldnt be right to put things like that in place  without knowing 
whether theyd help Mr H rather than risk making  his situation worse.
Its for those reasons  that NRAM contacted Mr H when he was in arrears  and having  
difficulty making his payments and wanted to discuss his finances and circumstances. From 
the evidence I have, I dont think the way it did so was unreasonable  or excessive. And while 
I dont doubt this would have been  something that was difficult and unpleasant for Mr H to 
discuss, and that NRAMs attempts to contact him may have felt unwelcome at the time, I 
havent seen any evidence that NRAM did so in a way that was insensitive or otherwise 
unfair.
NRAM accepts that it made  a mistake with how it recorded the payments in 2016.  Im 
pleased to see that its put that right, by correcting both the account and the credit file. I 
understand Mr H was looking into moving his mortgage elsewhere at the time, but wasnt  
able to do so. The incorrect recording  of arrears on his credit file certainly  wouldnt have 
helped with that. But Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to show this was the only reason he 
couldnt move his mortgage  and on balance I dont think  it was. I think  it would have  been  
difficult for him to move anyway, because he has an interest only mortgage, because he had 
at the time recently been in arrears and was receiving support for mortgage  interest,  and 
because he was self-employed  with variable income.
So while I think Mr H was upset to discover  the mistake, I think  it wasnt the reason, or the 
only reason, he couldnt  move  his mortgage.  I dont  think NRAMs offer of £50 compensation 
is enough to recognise the upset he was caused, and I agree £200 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
That leaves the interest rate charged. When his fixed  rate expired, Mr H was left on the SVR, 
and then on the loyalty rate linked to the SVR. And the interest rate on his further borrowing 
has always been linked to the SVR.
I know theres a general expectation that when  one fixed or variable rate ends, borrowers will 
generally take another, either with their own lender or with another lender.  But theres no 
regulatory rule, and nothing in Mr Hs mortgage agreement  either,  which says that hes 
entitled to another rate.
Ref: DRN30454103A complicating factor in this case is that Mr Hs mortgage was originally with Northern Rock,  
which collapsed and had to be nationalised.  Ever since,  Mr Hs mortgage  has been with 
NRAM, which is owned by the government to hold former Northern Rock mortgages. NRAM 
doesnt offer new fixed or variable rates. Mainstream private lenders do  generally to attract 
new customers or retain existing ones.  As NRAM isnt an active lender theres no business 
reason for it to do that.
And the government has explained to Parliament that as a matter of law NRAM isnt able to 
offer new interest  rates  because there  are legal restrictions  on government-owned  
businesses competing  against other firms in the market.
Its very unfortunate  that Mr Hs mortgage has ended up with NRAM, which  has meant  he 
hasnt been able to access new rates. And the circumstances that meant he couldnt  move 
his mortgage elsewhere in 2016  meant he couldnt do so earlier  either. So he hasnt been 
able to move  to another lender to access lower  interest rates. I can understand why hes 
upset about this, and why  when he compares his mortgage with those of other  people  he 
knows  he believes hes being treated  unfairly. 
And, as Ive said, theres nothing in Mr Hs mortgage  terms, or the regulators rules,  that says 
NRAM has to offer new interest  rates or that Mr H is entitled to them. The government  has 
explained why it cant do so. All NRAMs  other customers are in the same  situation  Mr H 
isnt being treated any differently to any other  NRAM borrower. So in all the circumstances I 
dont think I can say that NRAM has acted unfairly by not offering new rates.  That means Mr 
H has remained on NRAMs SVR.
Mr H says NRAMs SVR is much  higher  than the Bank of England base rate. But the SVR 
isnt linked to the Bank  of England base rate, and nothing in the mortgage offer or terms and 
conditions says that it is. The terms and conditions do say that the SVR can change if there 
are wider  changes in interest rates. NRAM increased its SVR recently, around the same time 
and for around  the same amount as the base rate increased  as did most  other  mortgage  
lenders. 
While the term of the mortgage agreement allowing NRAM to increase the SVR is broadly 
drawn, and it could be argued it doesnt  give Mr H enough certainty about when, whether 
and by how much his interest rate could be increased, I dont think  its unfair.  Thats because 
theres no barrier  such as an early  repayment charge  which would prevent Mr H moving 
his mortgage if he was unhappy  with any change NRAM made.  While hes not been able to 
do so, thats because of a change in his circumstance and a change in the availability of 
interest only lenders   neither of which are in NRAMs control, and neither of which were 
foreseeable to either NRAM or Mr H when he took out his mortgage. Its not because  of 
anything in the mortgage itself.
And while the SVR is higher than new fixed and variable rates offered by other lenders, it is 
broadly similar to other lenders SVRs.  So I dont think the SVR is of itself unfair, and I dont 
think NRAM has acted unfairly  when it made changes  to it.
However, I note that NRAM  now has an arrangement  with an independent mortgage broker  
to assist its borrowers  free of charge   in exploring whether they can move their mortgages 
elsewhere. It may be that Mr H now can move  his mortgage, as hes been out of arrears  and 
not receiving support  for mortgage interest for several years.  I dont know whether he would 
be able to do so, but it is something that he could  explore with the benefit of free 
Ref: DRN30454104independent mortgage advice. If thats  something he wants  to take up, he can contact 
NRAM to make the arrangements for it to refer him to an independent adviser.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint, to the limited 
extent that Ive set out above,  and direct NRAM Limited to increase its offer of compensation 
from £50 to £200. Should Mr H ask it to do so, it should refer him to the independent 
mortgage broker it has an arrangement with without  delay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3045410