K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Barclays Bank  Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her a number of 
packaged bank  accounts. Her account  history  is as follows:
Changed from a fee free current account to an Additions account  in 2003
Upgraded to an Additions  Plus in 2005
Migrated to a Tech  and Travel pack in 2017  this was not actually a new sale it was in 
fact a rebranding of the existing Additions  Plus account.
background
Barclays accepted  that it should not have sold the Additions account.  And it refunded all the 
fees Mrs S paid for this account, plus interest,  in order to put things right. As this is what  
wed normally tell a bank  to do where  we think,  or agree, a packaged account was mis-sold,  
weve not looked into that sale.
Barclays also initially said that it thought that we could not look at the sale of the Additions  
Plus account.  I issued a decision in October saying that we could look at this sale.  
Our adjudicators looked into this sale and they did not think that this account was mis-sold. 
They also did not think that Barclays had done anything  wrong  in relation to the migration to 
the Tech and Travel pack.
This decision will be focusing on whether the Additions Plus account was mis-sold and if 
Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the migration  to the Tech  and Travel  Pack.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs S complaint.  
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, 
I dont think Mrs S complaint should  be upheld. Id like to explain why in a bit more detail.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs S was given a clear  choice in taking the Additions 
Plus account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have  to make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened having weighed up what Mrs S and 
Barclays have been able to provide me with.  
Mrs S says that she went to the branch to change her joint account to a sole account and at 
this point she says she was told that she needed  to have a packaged bank account in order  
to get an overdraft. But by the time she took out the Additions Plus her account was already 
a sole account  and she had held an overdraft  on both a fee free account and the Additions 
account for a number  of years. Given this I cant see what would make Mrs S believe that 
she had to upgrade  her account from the Additions account to the Additions Plus account to 
obtain or indeed  keep  an overdraft. I think it is more likely that Mrs S was told that if she took 
out the account she would get a better  rate on her overdraft with a larger  interest free 
amount. 
Ref: DRN30813402Mrs S says that a personal recommendation was made when  this account was taken out. 
But the reason  that she says it was recommended to her was due to her having to take it out 
to get an overdraft and for the reasons above  I do not think that this was the case.  Taking 
this into consideration  alongside what I know about Barclays  process at the time the 
account was taken out I do not think a personal  recommendation was made.
As no personal recommendation was made Barclays  did not have to ensure that the account 
was right for her. It did though have to give Mrs S enough information to allow  her to do this 
for herself.  I think that the major benefits of the account would have been  highlighted to Mrs 
S to make the account seem attractive to her.
When Mrs S upgraded to the Additions  Plus account the benefit that is came with were 
(apart from the overdraft  benefits  that I mentioned above) mobile  phone  insurance, 
breakdown cover and travel insurance.  Mrs S says that she, had a mobile phone, drove  and 
did travel  and she has also indicated  that she did not have her own cover apart from mobile 
phone insurance  for her sons  phone.  So I think this in combination with the overdraft 
benefits is why Mrs S agreed  to this sale.
Im open  to the possibility that Mrs S was not told everything about  all of the benefits but I 
cant see anything specific that she was not told that I think wouldve changed her decision 
to take out the account.
Mrs S may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe  that she has not benefitted from the 
Additions Plus account as much as she had hoped  and expected  to when  she initially agreed 
to it. And given what she mightve  read and heard about packaged  accounts  in general and 
that her complaint  about her Additions account has been upheld, I can understand why this 
might lead her to believe her Additions  Plus account was also mis-sold. But I have to base 
my decision  on what  I think  is most likely to have happened at the time and in this instance I 
dont think the Additions  Plus account was mis-sold and therefore  I cannot reasonably  ask 
Barclays to refund the account fees for this sale.
why I dont think Barclays did anything  wrong in relation  to the Tech and Travel pack
I will now look into the migration to the Tech and Travel pack that took place in January 
2017. I understand that Mrs S has explained that she did not need the benefits that these  
packs came  with.
As this was not a sale but rather a migration Barclays  did not require the permission of Mrs S 
to do this and did not have to ensure that these packs were right for Mrs S, it did though 
have to make her aware  of these upcoming changes. In this instance  Barclays has provided 
me with a copy of the letter it sent out in September 2016 setting out these changes. This 
letter also sets out that should Mrs S not want these packs she can opt out. This letter is 
correctly addressed so I think that it is more likely than not that this letter  would have been 
received by Mrs S. So overall I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong it relation to this 
change of account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN30813403Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3081340