K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund money taken 
from his account  in a £350 cash withdrawal.
background
In June 2017 Mr O contacted  his bank having  noticed a cash machine  transaction which  he 
hadnt made. He believed  £350 which had been  withdrawn  on 11 June  2017  (but showing on 
his statement as 12 June) wasnt him. He still had his card after the transaction and didnt 
understand what may have happened. He knew hed been in London  around  this time. 
Halifax wouldnt agree  to refund the money.
In May 2018  Mr O complained again.  Halifax didnt  think it was fair to refund this amount to 
Mr O. They  knew  the genuine card and PIN had been used for the transaction.  Mr O hadnt 
said his card had gone  missing.  They  also didnt  think an unknown fraudster could have 
done this as only £350 was taken. Mr Os account had more money in his account.
Mr O was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service. 
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. He felt it was more likely Mr O had made  this 
withdrawal himself. Because  of this, he couldnt ask Halifax to refund him.
Mr O didnt agree with this and wanted  an ombudsman to consider his complaint. Our 
investigator asked him whether he had any further information hed like an ombudsman to 
consider. We received  nothing further  from him. I believe I have enough information to now 
make my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent when looking after their card 
and PIN. But Im satisfied  there is nothing that has had an impact on how Im considering 
Mr Os case. So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones  
fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether the customer made the transaction 
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the transaction itself and 
who else could possibly  have done this. Ive reviewed  the evidence  and it all points to the 
genuine card and PIN being used so whatever  may have occurred, I dont think theres any 
chance an unknown  fraudster did this. There would have been  no opportunity for someone 
to take Mr Os card and replace it. And like Halifax, I think an unknown  fraudster would have  
emptied more funds  from Mr Os account.
Ref: DRN33059402As far as Mr O has been able to recall,  hes told us he was away  from home when the cash 
was withdrawn. Actually Im not sure that was the case  he was certainly  away the night 
before and paid for a hotel room  the day before. So Im in no doubt Mr O had and used his 
card on 10 June. But hes also told us he returned  home early  on 11 June  to make sure he 
was able to start work.
So theres only two likely  scenarios as I see them.
Firstly at lunchtime (the cash withdrawal is timed at 12:06 on 11 June), Mr O went  out and 
withdrew some cash. It was nearly a year before Mr O complained again to Halifax. In this 
time period hed forgotten  when he returned  back home  and got his days  slightly confused.  
Seeing a cash withdrawal on a day he thought he couldnt have made it meant he then 
raised this with Halifax. Possibly  hed just forgotten the transaction.
Or alternatively some time during his morning at work,  someone   who already knew  his PIN 
 took his card, withdrew £350 (which wasnt the limit that could have been taken with his 
card) and then replaced his card. Mr O has told us he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone.
Both of these two scenarios are possible. But I have to say that I believe the first scenario  to 
be much  more likely.
Mr O told us he didnt think he could take out as much as that on his debit card at a cash 
machine. Ive reviewed  his bank statements for most of 2017  and can see there  were  other  
occasions  although not frequent   when he withdrew £300 or over at a cash  machine.
I know Mr O disputes he did this himself  and now just cant  remember.  But he accepts he 
still had the card. And there are many  debit card transactions on his statement after this 
which he hasnt disputed.
On balance Im satisfied theres enough evidence to show Mr O made this transaction  himself.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Os complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3305940