K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained, through a claims management company  (CMC),  about a whole of life 
and critical illness policy that she took out after receiving advice from a business  that 
Phoenix Life Limited is now responsible for. The CMC says Mrs S didnt require life cover  
and that she only wanted critical illness cover. 
background
Mrs S took out a whole  of life and critical illness policy in 1988. The original sum assured  on 
the policy was £100,000.  And at the time of sale Mrs S was married with no dependants and 
employed as a shop  assistant. 
The complaint was brought to our service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said Phoenix Life had confirmed critical illness cover was only sold alongside a 
whole of life policy,  and so wasnt available as a standalone product, when the policy  was 
set up in 1988. She didnt therefore  think it was mis-sold as it was the only way of obtaining 
critical illness cover from Phoenix Life at the time.  Our investigator also said documentation  
explaining the product features and cancellation  rights wouldve been provided to Mrs S. So 
she thought Mrs S ought to have known the policy included life cover  and if this wasnt 
something she wanted then she couldve cancelled it. 
The CMC disagreed with our investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
Before I explain my findings Id like to assure  the CMC that while  Ive taken in to account  the 
other complaint it has referenced in support of Mrs S complaint, in making  my decision,  Ive 
considered the individual circumstances  of this complaint when determining  what I think  is 
fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC argues Mrs S only wanted critical illness cover and didnt require life cover.  And so 
they consider  the policy sold wasnt suitable  for her and that the premiums,  less the cost of 
the critical illness cover, should be refunded. But Ive looked at what types of policy were 
available in 1988 and whether critical illness cover was available  as a standalone  product. 
Having done so, and from everything  Ive seen that provides this information from that time, 
it seems a limited number of standalone critical illness policies only became available the 
following year (1989)  and from a small number of providers. 
So when Mrs S took out the whole of life and critical illness  policy in 1988,  Im satisfied that 
standalone critical  illness cover wasnt available  or if it was it wouldve been extremely 
rare. And as she wanted critical illness cover it seems one of the ways  in which she could 
obtain it was if it was provided as part of a policy which also provided  life protection. 
A personal  financial analysis was completed for Mrs S at the time that recorded protection  
against long term illness was a priority for her. So I think a whole of life policy,  which  
provided the critical illness protection Mrs S wanted, was a suitable way of meeting this 
protection objective  particularly given there was little other option available to her at that 
Ref: DRN31278952time. It also provided her with life cover, which she didnt have, and so I dont  consider  it to 
have been an unreasonable recommendation for her circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3127895