K822xcomplaint
Ms R complains about the length of time it took Metro  Bank  PLC to unblock her account.
background 
Ms R told us she opened an account with Metro Bank for a new business  venture. An 
investor and friend agreed to kick start the business and funds were deposited into her 
account. Ms R tried to buy a new laptop  and phone  for her new business but her transaction 
was declined in store.
Ms R made several calls to Metro Bank  about this and she found out that Metro Bank 
blocked her account  on 31 July 2018.  She was asked to provide proof of the source  of the 
funds paid into her account before her account  could be unblocked. Ms R said she handed  
this information  in at a branch of Metro Bank  at the end of July 2018 but despite this her 
account remained blocked until 9 November 2018.
When Ms R complained to Metro  Bank  it upheld her complaint and credited her account  with 
£100 by way of apology.  Since the involvement  of our service, Metro  Bank agreed to 
increase this to £200.
Ms R was unhappy with Metro Banks  response  and referred  her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Metro Banks offer was fair and reasonable. She didnt think it was 
wrong of Metro Bank to ask for evidence of the payments into Ms Rs account. And she 
noted that the terms and conditions allowed Metro Bank to block  her account.
Our investigator explained that the information Ms R had provided to Metro  Bank  about  the 
incoming payments at the end of July 2018 wasnt looked at until Ms R called Metro  Bank  
towards the beginning of November 2018. It was only then that Metro  Bank  started the 
process of unblocking  her account.
Metro Bank  acknowledged there were delays in unblocking the account. Although the 
account remained blocked for three months our investigator didnt think Ms R had tried to 
use the account until November 2018. She would have expected  Ms R to call earlier  if shed 
tried to use the account and found  it blocked.
Ms R disagrees with the investigators view. She says that due to the issues with her 
account being blocked, shes  now lost her investment and shes had to repay the money  to 
her investor  so she cant now go ahead  with her business plans. She doesnt think  the 
compensation offered reflects the inconvenience  to her and the situation has made  her ill. So 
shes asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Extensive obligations are placed on regulated financial  businesses to verify  a customers  
identity, to establish the nature of the business  relationship and to satisfy themselves on 
payments into and out of an account.  I cant say it was wrong  of Metro Bank to ask for 
further information about the origin  of the payments made into her account  and Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN38684982that the terms and conditions  of her account  allow Metro  Bank  to block and place restrictions 
on accounts while they carry out any necessary checks.
Ms Rs account remained  blocked  for three  months. As Metro  Bank accepts there were 
unnecessary delays in unblocking her account  I wont  focus on why this happened. Ill 
instead look at whether  or not the £200 offered by Metro Bank is fair and reasonable or 
whether, as Ms R thinks, its appropriate to award further compensation looking at the 
impact the delay had on her.
Ms R told us she provided proof of the payments  requested by Metro  Bank  towards the end 
of July 2018. The information Ive seen shows Ms Rs next contact with Metro  Bank  was in 
early August  2018 when she rang after shed  tried to create a new payee  from her account 
but was unable to do so. During this call she said she wasnt  sure if this was due to her 
account still being blocked. The call handler  explained  to Ms R that she couldnt carry out 
any transactions through her account until it received proof  of the incoming payments from 
her. I think its clear from this call that Metro Bank was still awaiting information from Ms R 
before it could unblock her account.
I agree  that Metro  Bank  should have dealt with the documents  shed provided  sooner than it 
did but Im not persuaded that the impact on her was significant enough for me to award  
further compensation. I say this because I havent seen anything to suggest she contacted  
Metro Bank  about  her blocked account between the phone call she made in early  August 
2018 until she chased them again  in early  November 2018. This isnt intended as a criticism 
of Ms R and I agree  that Metro Bank  should have done more  to help but it suggests to me 
that she didnt  need urgent access to the funds in her blocked account.
Ms R also explained  that she had an account elsewhere and she confirmed she was able to 
purchase a computer and phone  through  another account held elsewhere. Whilst I dont 
have any reason to doubt she was inconvenienced  by having to delay meetings and cancel  
others Im not persuaded that this had a significant impact on her.
Im sorry  to hear Ms R lost her investment and shes no longer able to continue with her new 
business venture.  I dont  consider it appropriate to compensate her for the loss of this 
opportunity because I cant say with any certainty  that her business venture would have 
been successful.
Ms R has also expressed concerns about  Metro Banks  business  practices.  Im afraid I cant  
comment on those as we dont regulate financial businesses  thats  the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Ms R asked for £10,000 compensation not only to reflect the trauma  and 
injury to her but also to go some way to restoring trust in the industry. I appreciate her 
strength of feeling  but I can see that our investigator  has already explained that our role isnt 
to punish financial  businesses when things go wrong but rather  to look at how the mistake 
has affected her. 
Based on the information available to me and for the reasons Ive explained above I think 
Metro Banks offer of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I realise this isnt the answer Ms R was hoping but it brings to an end what  we as an informal 
dispute resolution service  can do to help resolve her complaint.
Ref: DRN38684983my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint  in the sense that Metro  Bank  
increased its compensatory  award  from £100  to £200 following the involvement of our 
service. I direct  Metro Bank PLC to pay £200 compensation to Ms R  save  insofar as any 
part of this award has already been paid - for the inconvenience and distress caused to her 
as a result  of Metro  Banks delay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3868498