K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with how long it took for The National  Farmers Union  Mutual Insurance  
Society Limited (NFU) to record a claim on his policy with them as resolved.  He believes 
this impacted on the premium amount he was being  asked to pay, when his policy  was up 
for renewal.  
background
Mr Ts car was involved in an accident in July 2018. 
He began a claim  through his motor insurance  policy with NFU. The third-party insurer was 
pursued for full costs.  However, in November 2018  a decision was made to agree to joint 
liability and split the settlement. Despite this, Mr Ts claim  was not finalised until March 2019.
Mr T complained that this claim should  have been  finalised sooner. He said that because  it 
hadnt been, when his policy was up for renewal the premium he had to pay was higher. 
NFU initially  responded  to Mr T to apologise  for the time it has taken for them  to close  this 
claim and agreed that it had been left open  unnecessarily. They offered Mr T £100 for the 
inconvenience that this delay had caused.  
Mr T brought  his complaint to us. NFU then provided us with some further information which 
said that its claims department were  still in consultation with the third-party insurers 
regarding liability, up until at least the end of February 2019. Our investigator felt that the 
offer from NFU of £100 for the time it took to close Mr Ts claim was reasonable. Mr T didnt 
agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  at whether the amount of time it took for NFU to close  this claim, impacted on 
the price of Mr Ts premium at renewal. I can see that his policy  renewal was on 18 March 
2019 and this claim had been  finalised on 7 March 2019. 
The accident  had been recorded as joint liability and I am satisfied that the claim was 
recorded as finalised  by the time of renewal. Based on my experience,  I think its likely       
Mr Ts quoted policy premium would not have been  different had his claim been showing as 
pending or at fault, with joint liability. This is because the policy  is likely  to have been rated 
the same  in both of these situations. 
Mr T hasnt  demonstrated that the claim being open for as long as it was, impacted on his 
new insurance premium. However, NFU has acknowledged that it could have been done 
sooner. In this time Mr T did contact NFU on occasions to query  the time it was taking, and 
the delay has had some impact on him. 
NFU offered  Mr T £100 because they could have finalised his claim sooner. In the 
circumstances, I think  this is reasonable  and Im not going to tell NFU to do anything else. 
Apart from taking longer  to finalise the claim that it could have done, it acted fairly, 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN30848902my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3084890