K821x#15Complaint
Miss S complains, in summary,  about Santander  UK plcs delay in closing her current 
account.
Background
Miss S had two accounts with Santander,  a current account and a savings account.  
Following a block being placed  on the accounts, in October 2018 the bank asked Miss S to 
close them.   The block  was temporarily lifted for that to happen  but, before Santander was 
able to close Miss Ss current  account,  a regular payment of £200  was made from it.  
Because the account balance was then no longer zero the bank couldnt close that account.
Miss S was in touch  with Santander on several occasions between  October  2018  and May 
2019 when the account was finally closed  by which time it was clear that she had received 
all the money due to her.  Santander offered Miss S £100 compensation for its delays, but 
she did not consider  that that fairly reflected the frustration and inconvenience she had 
experienced.  Our investigator agreed, and recommended the bank pay her £300  which 
Santander agreed to do.  But, after some apparent confusion  about  whether or not Miss S 
was prepared to accept that, she asked  for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres no doubt that Miss S experienced frustration and inconvenience arising from 
Santanders delay  in closing her current account  as evidenced, in particular, by the phone 
recordings we have  been provided with and the notes of her visits to her local branch.  She  
has further explained that this came at a time when she was studying for exams  so 
impacting adversely on her health  and the anxiety she was already experiencing. 
Whilst I can see that the banks initial offer of £100 might have been  a reasonable starting 
point, in Miss Ss specific circumstances  I agree  with the investigator that it did not 
adequately reflect the stress and inconvenience she was caused.  In my view,  and having  
regard to the general level of awards we make,  I share the investigators view that £300  
more fairly  reflects  the totality of the impact of the banks actions on Miss S.
Ref: DRN38260442My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I uphold  this complaint.  In 
settlement of it, Santander UK plc should pay Miss S £200  on top of the £100  it has 
already paid her  making total compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 December  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3826044