K820x#14The complaint
Mrs R says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of the policy  insurer.  I cant  consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  were  regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer  to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs R took out in 2002.  It was
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mrs Rs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Both Mrs R and AXA agree the policy was taken out during an interaction in a store.  AXA 
should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional.  And it has 
provided a copy of Mrs Rs application form. The form has a section for the PPI and
applicants can sign to opt for the policy in this section  if they wish to take it out. This section 
of the form has been signed by Mrs R. And she signed the overall credit agreement,
so, I think if there was anything on the form she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed to, she
would have had the opportunity to question it at the time.
On balance, I think AXA made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI, and she
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her.
But it did have to make  sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it was right for
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mrs R says she would
have got sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out alongside  her
employee benefits meaning  she could have used these to cover other essential costs.
Ref: DRN35326752Mrs R said she had an investment at the time that she could have  used to make her 
repayments. But having the policy would  have meant she didnt need  to sell her investment. 
So, I think it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong. I also havent  seen 
anything to make me think the PPI was unaffordable. All of this means  I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs R has lost out because of anything AXA might have done wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs R has said, but for the reasons  explained  above
these points dont  change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3532675