K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited refused to give her a credit 
card without a contactless function and insisted that she would have to apply for a different 
kind of card online. She is unhappy with this because she has security concerns  about 
contactless and online banking.
background
Ms H originally took out a Gold American Express card in 2004. She has now been given a 
Blue card. She asked  American Express to remove the contactless facility because  she has 
concerns about  security  but it said it couldnt do that. She also asked to have her card 
changed to a Platinum card more in line with the Gold card she originally took out. American 
Express told her shed  have to apply for a new card online. But she says shes  concerned 
about the security  of online  banking. She complained  about  these two issues to American 
Express but it rejected  her complaint so she came to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should succeed so Ms H asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand Ms H is worried  about the 
security of contactless cards. But, as a business, American Express  is entitled  to make 
decisions on the security  it applies to its products so I dont think  its unreasonable for it to 
make a commercial decision to provide only contactless cards. 
Ms H raised the question  of whether this might be a breach of her rights  under data 
protection law. Contactless cards are used widely in the industry. I can only look at whether 
or not Ms H has been treated fairly  in the particular circumstances of the case. If she has 
wider concerns about the use of contactless  cards and data protection,  she may wish to 
raise those with the Information Commissioners Office  www.ico.org.uk  - as the regulator 
for data protection legislation.
American Express has pointed out that the card can also be used as a chip and pin card.  But 
Ms H has said shes particularly  worried about the contactless function because  of a medical 
condition that means  she could  forget the card which could  then be used as a contactless  
card. I understand that must be worrying for her, but American Express  has said that any 
unauthorised payments,  contactless or otherwise, would  be reimbursed, so I think its 
addressed these concerns.
Many businesses offer online services  and some have taken the decision to make some 
processes available online only. This is a legitimate commercial decision so I dont think 
American Express has done anything wrong. While  I can see she feels the Platinum card 
would just be a replacement of her original  card, it would  in fact be a new product so would 
need a full application for American  Express to make a decision on that. I understand this 
will be a disappointment  for Ms H, as I can see these are issues  she feels very strongly 
about but I hope I have explained my reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN35677992Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3567799