K820x#14Complaint         
This complaints about Mr Cs former mortgage  with Santander UK Plc. He and Mrs H are 
unhappy that when they moved house, Santander wouldnt lend them  the amount they 
wanted on a new joint mortgage. They were able to get a mortgage from another lender, but 
this meant  Mr C had to pay Santander an early repayment charge (ERC) when his old 
mortgage was closed down. They dont think Santander accurately assessed  the amount 
they could borrow,  and that it was morally  wrong for it to charge the ERC  in the 
circumstances.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 18 June  2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 2 July 2019  to reply.  Santander had nothing further to say; 
Mr C and Mrs H made  further submissions, the main  thrust  of which  I summarise  below:
They spent the weekend after Santander agreed to lend weighing up their options, and 
seeking their brokers  advice. He told them that to maximise  the chance  of a quick  
turnaround, their application to N needed to be on the basis that they werent applying to 
anyone else. If theyd  disclosed to N that they were applying to Santander as well, that 
could have delayed  the application  to N or even  resulted in it being rejected. Their 
confidence in Santander was low and they felt blackmailed. They  hoped  Santander  
would do the fair thing  and reduce or waive the ERC, given they were  75% of the way 
through the product  term.
They still had their doubts about  what went wrong with the underwriting  of their 
application, and asked that I seek further  clarification from Santander about how its 
lending criteria were applied in their case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  But I will address Mr C and Mrs Hs further points.
 
I cant know (and isnt my remit to consider)  what conversations Mr C and Mrs H had with 
their broker,  but Im not at all convinced that there was any risk of their application to N being 
delayed or rejected if it had found out the porting application to Santander  was still active.  
The weekend they say they spent  weighing up their options was at the beginning of 
October 2018. But N had already issued a mortgage offer on 20 September 2018, and the 
rules of mortgage regulation impose  very tight restrictions on when a lender  can withdraw an 
offer once issued. Overall,  I dont find it at all likely that Mr C and Mrs H would  have put their 
offer from N at risk if theyd allowed Santander  the opportunity to produce a porting offer in 
time for their anticipated completion  date.
However low the confidence  Mr C and Mrs H might have had in Santander at that point, they 
were fully aware that Mr C would  be liable for an ERC if he paid his mortgage off by 
completing on 6D with funding from N. There was no obligation, contractual or moral, on 
Santander to waive or even reduce  the ERC  in circumstances where it had confirmed its 
willingness to lend (subject to a valuation) and facilitate the porting of Mr Cs existing  fixed  
rate.
Ref: DRN38129222I understand Mr C and Mrs H want to know more about what exactly it was in their 
application that Santander initially thought didnt meet its criteria. But as far the outcome of 
their complaint is concerned, the point is entirely  moot. Thats  because, as I explained in the 
provisional decision, Santander  belatedly  accept their application and agree to lend, subject 
to a valuation  of the new property, 6D. So my decision  on their complaint is about  assessing 
the effect of the delay in approving the application (including whether it should  refund the 
ERC they paid),  and not in ferreting out exactly why it wasnt approved  in the first instance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38129223CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaints about  Mr Cs former mortgage with Santander UK Plc. Theyre unhappy that when 
they moved house, Santander wouldnt lend them  the amount they wanted on a new joint mortgage.  
They were able to get a mortgage  from another lender,  but this meant Mr C had to pay Santander an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) when  his old mortgage was closed down. They  dont think Santander 
accurately assessed the amount they could borrow, and that it was morally wrong for it to charge the 
ERC in the circumstances.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex and the evidence in the case, 
is detailed, running to more  than 600 pages of documents.  Ive read everything,  and its apparent that 
some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others.  There are also a lot 
of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have,  by necessity,  
summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented,  using my own words. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  
mention something,  it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. This approach  is consistent with what  our enabling  legislation requires 
of me. It allows me to focus on the issues  on which  I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters  which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in 
some instances, have  little or no impact  on the broader outcome. Another reason I have left out a lot 
of the detail,  and also rounded some of the monetary amounts involved,  is to avoid the risk of 
identifying the consumer when my decision is published.
Mr C took out his Santander mortgage in May 2017, on the advice and recommendation of a third 
party broker Ill call HLS. It was for £144,900, on an initial fixed  rate of 1.74% and subject to an ERC 
if repaid before 2 May 2019.  Then,  in the summer of 2018,  he and Mrs H decided to buy a home  
together; they each had a property to sell, and would be taking a new joint mortgage. They 
approached Santander, thinking that by porting  the rate from Mr Cs existing mortgage to a new loan, 
he could avoid paying the ERC.
Santander gave them a decision-in-principle  thats  an informal (and non-binding) steer on how 
much a lender will consider lending subject to a proper application  for £200,000. They had an offer 
accepted on a property  Ill call 199P and arranged with the Santander mortgage advisor to make the 
formal application. However, the application hit problems with the underwriters. Since  taking out the 
2017 mortgage, Mr C had recently retired; his income  was presently in the form of drawdowns from 
an ISA investment fund pending him being able to access his pension fund.
Santanders underwriters werent satisfied with this and said it was only willing to lend a little under 
£55,000. Mr C and Mrs H appealed this, but Santander didnt change its mind, so they began  looking 
elsewhere for the mortgage  they wanted. By this point, which was mid-September 2018, theyd also 
changed properties as they couldnt be certain of being able to complete on 199P in time.  They were 
now looking  to buy a property Ill call 6D. Mr C and Mrs H contacted  HLS to source another  
mortgage, and began a complaint with Santander.
By 20 September 2018, HLS had secured a mortgage of £200,000  on property 6D with an alternate  
lender, which Ill call N. Meanwhile,  Santander was looking into the complaint  about how it had 
handled the porting application. On 5 October,  following  a review  by a senior  underwriter, it decided 
that Mr Cs income arrangements were acceptable  and said it would  be willing to lend the £200,000 
that he and Mrs C wanted. The bank let Mrs H know in a phone call, during which she said shed just 
that day moved out of her own property.
Ref: DRN38129224In another phone call on 8 October, Santander admitted  to Mrs H that the initial  assessment of Mr Cs 
income provisions hadnt been correct, but as that had now been put right,  they now had the 
opportunity to stay with Santander. If they decided  not to do so, the ERC would  be payable.  
Santander confirmed  all of this in its final response letter the next day. In that response, the bank 
agreed to reimburse  Mr C and Mrs H £352 in respect of a valuation  fee paid to N, and pay them £250 
compensation for their time and trouble; so £602 in all. But it declined to reimburse them the £400 
broker fee theyd paid HLS to source the mortgage from N. It reasoned they could have gone to N 
directly. Santander also said in the final response, as it had done on the phone  the day before, that 
the change of property from 199P to 6D wouldnt mean  theyd need to start the application again.  It 
would just substitute  6D as the property and progress  from there.
Mr C and Mrs H were  aiming to complete the transaction on 6D by 31 October  2018,  and say that by 
now their confidence in Santander had been severely  shaken by the handling  of the mortgage 
application, and some other problems that werent  directly linked to it. They decided  to complete the 
purchase using the mortgage from N (albeit  that was subsequently  delayed by other factors until 
mid-November) and escalated the complaint to Santander CEO to ask for the ERC to be waived. 
The escalated complaint  resulted in a second final response from Santander; this broadly endorsed 
the outcome of the first final response,  and confirmed that £602 compensation offer would now be 
paid to Mr C and Mrs H. But it contradicted what the first final response had said about how the 
application had been underwritten.  Rather than say the initial assessment  was a mistake that was 
subsequently put right, Santander now said the original  underwriting was consistent with its normal 
criteria and the later decision to offer the £200,000  was agreed  exceptionally.
Mr C and Mrs H referred their complaint  here, and one of our investigators looked  into it. She 
recommended that Santander should refund them  the ERC theyd paid when redeeming Mr Cs 
Santander mortgage and reimburse them the broker fee of £400. Santander  asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, including Mr C and Mrs Hs emailed final 
submission of 16 April 2019, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
This service is impartial  between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont  represent either party,  and I dont act under eithers instructions  or take 
directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should  be asked or answered.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender  has lent before, its not 
obliged to do so again. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for 
lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria.  Lenders criteria 
are commercially sensitive and not generally  made public. Also,  generally  speaking, its not the role of 
an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and I see 
no reason to depart  from that position here. 
Santander did eventually,  and clearly belatedly, say it would be willing,  subject to a satisfactory 
valuation, to lend Mr C and Mrs H the £200,000 they wanted in order to buy 6D. And that is the critical  
point on which the outcome of this complaint  turns.  
Mr C and Mrs H argue,  with some eloquence, that they had to redeem and incur the ERC. Their core 
argument is that because Santander made such a mess  of assessing how much they could borrow,  it 
then left them  without enough time to progress an application once it had eventually  agreed to the 
£200,000, and with little confidence in its ability to get things  right this time. Ive read everything 
theyve said about that, and whilst I recognise their strength of feeling (and dont doubt their frustration 
at the contradictory messages the bank gave them) I dont find the argument entirely persuasive.
Ref: DRN38129225I dont doubt for a moment that Mr C and Mrs H were  in a stressful position.  Mrs H had already sold 
her home  and moved in with Mr C, but his property was due to sell before they could complete on 6D, 
so they would  soon both have to move  again into temporary rented  accommodation.  And Ive no 
doubt they were nervous  that Santander might  get things  wrong again.  
But even all of that in the background, it seems  to me that there was no risk to them at least  giving 
Santander a chance to progress  the application and produce a formal offer of £200,000 in time for 
them to complete on 6D. I say that because they had the safety margin  of the offer from N in place, 
and ready  to deploy if Santander failed to come up with the goods. In other words, even without the 
completion delay (which  no one knew at that time would happen)  Mr  C and Mrs H werent at risk of 
losing 6D by allowing Santander to produce a mortgage offer.
Had they done that and Santander had failed,  Mr C and Mrs H could  still have completed using the 
mortgage from N, and would then have a much stronger case to argue  for why the ERC should be 
refunded. But they didnt give Santander the chance to deliver what it had now said it could deliver.
Mr C and Mrs H had their own reasons  for the decision  they took,  and I certainly wont say they 
should have acted differently. It was their prerogative to complete  the purchase with the mortgage 
from N, but it was also their choice, and one that they made presumably because  they had more  
confidence in N than they did in Santander.  
Its not for me to say they were right or wrong; they were entitled  to exercise their own judgement. But 
Mr C and Mrs H made that choice knowing what the implications would be. In conversation with 
Santander on 8 October 2018, Mrs H said, about  the ERC, Ive got the message  very clearly that 
weve still got to make the payment. Ive no doubt it was unwelcome, but it wasnt unfair and I dont 
think it should  have come as a surprise  to Mr C and Mrs H that changing  lender at the time they did 
would mean  paying an ERC. 
Santander was right to reimburse Mr C and Mrs H the extra valuation  fee as well as compensating  
them for their time, trouble  and upset. I agree that the broker  fee was avoidable, and Mr C and Mrs H 
have rightly conceded that the further costs for moving, storage and accommodation they incurred 
when completion on 6D was unexpectedly delayed into November shouldnt  form part of their claim  
against Santander. Taking everything together, I find that the settlement offer that Santander made  to 
Mr C and Mrs H in its first final response, and endorsed in the second, was broadly  fair.  As a result, 
Im not persuaded  Santander  needs  to do any more  to resolve this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 2 July 2019 my 
provisional decision  is that I dont in tend to uphold this complaint  or make  any order or award against 
Santander UK Plc
Ill review my provisional decision after 2 July 2019, or sooner than that if both parties confirm theyve 
said and provided all they wish to that is materially new. Theres  no need for either  party  to repeat 
anything theyve  already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3812922