K821x#15the complaint
Mrs and Mr E say TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on them  and affected an 
important family holiday. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mrs E says she told TSB in April that 
she was going  on holiday abroad and wanted to use her debit card  which  was linked to 
their joint account. TSB told her this would be fine, but soon after Mrs and Mr E arrived  on 
holiday her card was blocked.  
Mrs E called TSB to try to unblock  the card but wasnt able to. TSB asked her to fax a copy 
of her passport to the bank  but she says she couldnt because  she was in a rural location.  
Mrs E says they had a limited amount of money  for the rest of the holiday and had to rely on 
her credit cards instead  and she missed payments to some cards as a result. 
Mrs E tried to unblock her card after she got back to the UK, but this took over six weeks   
and involved  trips to the branch and over five hours of calls. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She thought TSB should  pay £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mrs and Mr E  and also pay £58.06 for late payment fees, petrol and 
phone calls.
Mrs and Mr E didnt  think £300 was enough compensation. They said there was a significant 
overall impact on them and their family  as the holiday was meant to be a special trip for an 
ill family member. Mrs E said it took around eight  weeks before her card worked again and 
she had to rely heavily  on credit cards during that time. 
The investigator reconsidered the complaint but still felt £300 was a fair award  for what  had 
happened. So the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £300 trouble and upset payment   along with costs   the 
investigator recommended is a fair way to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs and Mr E say they want fair compensation for the worry and frustration caused by 
Mrs Es card being blocked.  I can understand their strength of feeling, especially as Mrs E 
gave TSB advance notice  she was going  to be away. That was a sensible thing to do  but it 
doesnt guarantee a card wont still be blocked by a banks fraud systems. And unfortunately 
thats what seems to have  happened here.
TSB has told us that Mrs E wasnt able to answer  the security  questions when she called to 
unblock her card. TSB accepts this may well have been because Mrs E wasnt  able to 
access her account online   likely due to IT issues. And it accepts those issues  also meant  it 
took longer for Mrs E to get through to the fraud department than normal. Im satisfied TSB 
followed usual practice by asking Mrs E to send identification through when she wasnt  able 
to pass the security questions. But in her situation that wasnt possible.  
Ref: DRN38260002That meant Mrs E couldnt  use her debit card for the rest of the holiday. I appreciate  that had 
an impact on what Mrs and Mr E and their family did  and on how and when they spent 
their money. But I have to balance  that against the fact that Mrs E did still have access to 
funds via her credit  cards. So whilst I accept there would  have been some impact on the 
holiday, I dont  think its fair to say Mrs and Mr E and their family were  left stranded  with no 
access to funds. 
Its clear Mrs and Mr E had more problems when  they got back  to the UK. Firstly because 
their pre-booked  taxi and shopping were cancelled  and also because it took several 
weeks, two branch visits and numerous calls to unblock Mrs Es card.  TSB accepts it didnt 
do what it should have  done here. It took until mid-June before the card was unblocked and 
Mrs E could use it again. Mr Es card was still active throughout that time  although Mrs E 
says his card went on to be blocked in August and theyve now changed bank as a result.  
Mrs E has described having no access to the joint account to pay for lunches and fuel whilst  
her card was blocked. But I can see that from the end of April onwards she was able to 
transfer money out of the joint account to one of her sole current  accounts  which  had an 
active debit card. And she then used her sole account and its associated debit card regularly  
to make payments  and purchases until her debit card on the joint account was unblocked. 
So again  I have  to balance the impact TSBs actions had against  the fact Mrs E does still 
seem to have been able to access money  and use a different debit card to pay for things. 
I can understand it may have been more  complicated for Mrs E to keep track of her 
payments while  moving money between different accounts  and as she was also relying on 
her credit cards more  than shed intended to. And Ive thought about what  she says about 
the extra strain this caused  whilst  she was supporting her family member  during their illness. 
Mrs E says she missed two payments to her credit cards during this time. I think its 
reasonable for TSB to cover the charges for those  and the fuel and call costs.  And TSB 
has already agreed  to do that.  
I know Mrs and Mr E dont  feel £300  is a fair amount to reflect the impact these issues  have 
had on them both.  But taking  everything  into account, I do think the £300 the investigator 
has already recommended  and TSB has agreed  to  is a fair amount for this. 
The investigator also asked TSB to fix any information it recorded  on Mrs or Mr Es credit 
file. But as Mrs Es missed payments were with other credit providers, TSB didnt report that 
information itself and so it wouldnt be able to change it. So instead Ill direct TSB to provide 
a letter  of apology,  explaining that Mrs Es credit file was affected because  of IT issues. 
Mrs E can then use that letter to ask her credit providers if they will amend the missed 
payment entries  on her credit file for the period  when her card was blocked.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mrs and Mr E a total of £300  for trouble  and upset
pay Mrs and Mr E a total of £58.06 for financial losses
and write  a letter of apology  explaining  that Mrs Es credit file was affected because  
of IT issues
Ref: DRN38260003my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs and Mr Es complaint. TSB Bank plc must put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above   if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before7 February  2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3826000