K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  has used most of the compensation from 
the sale of a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy to offset  an outstanding debt.
Mr H says the debt was cleared and no longer exists.
Background
Mr H took out a loan with Nationwide in 1998. He borrowed £5,000. At the same time Mr H 
was sold a PPI policy.  The policy was funded with a single premium of £1,277.81 which  was 
added to the loan meaning  Mr H borrowed £6,277.81  in total.
In 2000 Mr H took out a second  loan with Nationwide, this time for £9,000.  Part of this 
second loan was used to repay the first. Mr H was again sold a PPI policy,  this time with a 
premium of £2,198.22  which was again added to the loan.  This meant  Mr H borrowed in total 
£11,198.22.
At some point in 2006 Mr H got into financial difficulties and began making smaller monthly 
payments to the loan meaning  it got into arrears. Mr H entered  into a debt management  
arrangement with Step Change whereby he paid a monthly amount which  Step Change 
distributed among  his creditors. 
In 2017 Mr H complained  to Nationwide about the sale of the PPI policies. Nationwide  
replied to say the PPI had not been  mis-sold.
Mr H asked this service  to step in. An adjudicator  from this service  wrote to Mr H to say they 
didnt think the PPI had been  mis-sold.  However,  the adjudicator told Mr H that under new 
rules introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Nationwide may need  to give 
back some  of the commission paid on the PPI.
Mr H did not agree with the adjudicators findings that the PPI was not mis-sold.
In 2018 Nationwide made Mr H an offer to refund some of the commission it received for the 
PPI on the second  loan.  The PPI sold with the first loan does not fall under the new rules.
Nationwide calculated that it owed Mr H £2,154.08. However, Nationwide  stated that there 
was still an outstanding balance of 2,105.79  on Mr Hs second loan. Nationwide  said it would 
use the compensation to clear the outstanding  amount and would pay Mr H the remaining 
£48.29. Nationwide say the last payment it received from Mr H was in June 2012.
 
Mr H told us he continued to make payments beyond June 2012 until the loan was cleared 
and therefore,  he should receive  all the compensation.
Nationwide later made an offer to refund to Mr H £280.20 made  up of late fees and interest 
charged after Mr H got into financial difficulties. 
Based on the evidence  she had seen our adjudicator thought it likely that Mr H continued to 
make payments to the loan beyond July 2012.  However, the adjudicator  thought it unlikely 
Mr H had cleared the whole balance.
The adjudicator thought  it a fair assumption  that Mr Hs balance could have been around  
£1,400 by November 2013.
Ref: DRN30056192The adjudicator asked Nationwide to recalculate the commission offer and the refund of late 
fees and interest.  The adjudicator said the total amount could  then be offset against an 
outstanding balance £1,400 with the remainder  being paid direct  to Mr H.
Nationwide did not agree with the adjudicators findings and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr H accepted the adjudicators findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the PPI policies in 1998 and 2000
For completeness Ive first looked at how the policies  were sold to Mr H.
Nationwide has been able to provide us with copies  of the application forms for both loans. I 
can see the applications were both made by post and Mr H indicated  on the forms that he 
wanted PPI. Nationwide has also been  able to give us a copy of the credit  agreement from 
2000 which set out the cost of the PPI and described it as optional. So, I think Mr H likely 
was made  aware  the PPI policies were  optional and he chose to take them.
Because the applications were made by post I dont think Nationwide gave Mr H 
personalised advice. So, Nationwide didnt have  to make sure the PPI was right for Mr H. 
But it did need to give Mr H enough  clear information so that he could decide for himself  if 
the PPI was right for him.
I cant be sure what information Nationwide gave Mr H at the point of sale and it may not 
have given Mr H all the information it should have.  But based  on his circumstances at the 
time I think Mr H could  have found  the PPI to be useful if things went  wrong.  For example, 
although Mr H was entitled to some  sick pay, the PPI could  have paid out a monthly benefit 
in addition to his sick pay and potentially for longer than his full sick pay would last.
So even if Nationwide  had given  Mr H all the information it should  have, I still think  he would 
have gone ahead and bought the policies.  It follows that I dont think  the policies were      
mis-sold and Nationwide doesnt have to repay all the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
For the second PPI policy  Nationwide got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr H about that. Because  Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
However, Nationwide wants  to use the majority of this compensation to offset the remaining 
balance of the loan. Id usually think this is a fair approach, but Mr H has told us that he 
repaid the loan and there is no outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN30056193Offsetting the compensation
Nationwide has sent us copies of its internal records. These suggest that the last payment it 
received from Mr H via Step Change  was in June 2012.
On the other hand, Mr H has sent us a statement from his Step Change account dated  
November 2013  which suggests he was paying Step Change £355 each month with £42.16 
of that being passed  to Nationwide via a third-party used by Nationwide  to collect  
outstanding debt.
Mr H has stated that he stopped the arrangement with Step Change  after November 2013 
and began paying only £5 per month to his individual creditors. Although his bank 
statements dont show Nationwide as one of the businesses  Mr H was paying, I can see      
Mr H was paying £5 per month  to a different third-party debt collecting firm which  is used by 
Nationwide.
Taking all the evidence into account I think it is most likely  Mr H continued to make  
payments to his loan after June 2012.  But I dont think  it is likely he repaid the full amount.
In my view it is not possible at this stage  to be certain of the amount outstanding.  But based 
on all the evidence including  the statements shown to us by Mr H and Nationwides  internal 
records I think the figure of £1,400 is a fair assumption of the outstanding balance.  
It follows that I think it is fair for Nationwide to use that figure as the outstanding balance on 
Mr Hs account.  
Putting things  right
Nationwide needs  to recalculate  the commission offer it made Mr H to bring it up to date.
Nationwide may deduct  the sum of £1,400  as the outstanding balance of Mr Hs loan. It can 
use this figure to offset against the new compensation figure. The remainder to be repaid 
directly to Mr H.
Nationwide also made Mr H an offer of £280.20  to refund the late fees and interest  it 
charged him after he got into financial  difficulties  and that is fair. Nationwide  should make 
payment of this amount to Mr H.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr H compensation as 
set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Ref: DRN30056194Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3005619