K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly refused a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
background
Mr P made a claim on his policy to cover the legal costs of a constructive dismissal case 
against his previous employers. 
Allianz refused  the claim on the basis  that the event which gave rise to Mr Ps claim started 
after the policy had ended. It said the policy cover is limited to things which happen  while the 
policy is in place, provided that the claim is made within six months  of the event. 
Mr P complained to our service. He said the start of the events occurred whilst the policy 
was in place. So he thinks Allianz should be responsible for the claim. 
Our investigator thought Allianz had assessed the claim  correctly and in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions. So he didnt uphold  the complaint. As Mr P didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what the policy will cover. Having done so, I think  is was reasonable for Allianz  
to refuse  cover  for this claim. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ps policy  with Allianz was in place from 3 October 2015 until 3 October 2016. The policy  
says that cover for employment claims is available as long as the dispute,  or series of 
events leading to the dispute,  first occurred during the period of insurance. So Ive thought  
about when the dispute  or the events leading to it started, to decide if it was during the 
period between October 2015 and October 2016.  
The claim, or dispute,  is that Mr P was constructively dismissed when  he resigned in 
November 2018.  Whilst this is two years  after the policy expired, Mr P says his resignation  
was as a result of his flexible working request being declined,  which  was the series  of events 
leading to his dispute. 
Mr P says the series  of events started on 24 September 2016. This is because its when he 
submitted a flexible  working request, and he says without that request there  could have been 
no dispute. But I agree  with our investigator  that the series of events leading  to the dispute 
would have been when Mr P became aware  that his flexible  working  request had been  
declined, which was on 10 November 2016.  This is because its the rejection of the request 
that led to the dispute arising,  not the fact a request was made in the first place.  If the 
request had been granted,  there  wouldnt have been  a dispute.
The term series  of events is common in legal expenses policies. I would interpret it to be 
any significant incident that directly  links to the dispute. Its not realistic  to say every  incident 
that occurred  is part of a series  of events leading to a dispute, as this could mean  every  
Ref: DRN30166802single thing that had happened  regardless  of whether it was relevant to the dispute. Only 
events that lead to the dispute are relevant.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr Ps argument  that the submission of his flexible working request is 
a material fact to his case, I dont consider it to be a significant event that led to the dispute.   
Allianz has also said that its a condition of the policy that a claim  must  be made within  six 
months of the dispute or the series of events leading to it. It says if it were to take Mr Ps 
date of 24 September 2016 as being the start of the series of events, hed be outside the 
time limit to notify a claim. It also says it would be prejudiced by this delay because  Mr P had 
instructed solicitors and started legal proceedings before submitting his claim.  Whilst I note 
the point it has made,  I dont think its relevant  to comment further as I dont find that the 
series of events started within the policy period. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3016680