K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI).
Background
Mr and Mrs S policy was added to cover their monthly mortgage  repayments in 1995.  They  
paid a monthly premium  for the policy,  which  covered  them if either couldnt work due to 
disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs S case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale took place  many years ago, so its not surprising that there are gaps in the 
information from the time thats still available. Ive considered the remaining evidence,  
including what Mr and Mrs S say about not knowing the PPI had been added. 
In the absence of any evidence to support what Mr and Mrs S have said,  I think its just as 
likely they were made aware  they were  being sold PPI that was separate  to the mortgage 
and was optional,  and that they chose to take it. Given  how long ago the sale took place, I 
understand if they remember things differently. 
I note Mr and Mrs S say theyd have claimed on the policy (twice) if theyd known they had it. 
Regardless of why they didnt claim at the time,  its still open for them to contact the insurer 
to try and claim retrospectively  if they wish to do so. 
Lloyds has assessed  the complaint as though it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs S. If 
it did, as well as having to give them enough information for them to make  an informed 
choice about taking it, Lloyds should have looked  into whether it was right for Mr and Mrs S. I 
dont know what steps Lloyds took but I think its recommendation was suitable for them in 
any case.
I say that because, from what Mr and Mrs S have told us about  their circumstances in 1995, 
it appears they were  eligible for the policy and that it was affordable  for them.  And I cant, for 
instance, see that theyd have been  affected by the main exclusions to  or limits on  the 
cover. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were entitled to generous levels of sick pay through  their respective 
employers and that they had savings and shares  they could have relied on. However,  the 
policy would have paid out on top of any other  pay and for up to 12 months  per claim. It 
would have allowed  them  to retain their savings  and shares or use them to put towards  their 
other living costs if they werent working. 
Ref: DRN39079882Overall, and not least because Mr and Mrs S borrowing was secured against their home, I 
think its likely theyd have valued  the extra protection the PPI provided.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same reasons I 
think the PPI was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think better information would have 
stopped Mr and Mrs S from buying it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because  of how 
Lloyds sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3907988