K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Virgin Money  plc dealt with the closure of his credit  card account. 
He wants it to compensate him for the trouble and upset this has caused him. 
background
Mr G had a credit card account with Virgin. At the beginning  of 2019 he decided to close  his 
account. A block was put on the account  to stop any further transactions  being  made  and to 
allow the outstanding balance to be cleared.  But there was a query  pending over a dispute 
Mr G had raised the previous November. This stopped the account  from being closed. 
In early February, £77.99 was debited to Mr Gs account. This was an adjustment  that was 
needed due to the dispute. When Mr G saw this outstanding balance he contacted Virgin.  He 
was unhappy  that he hadnt  been told the dispute  was still pending. He said Virgin  previously 
told him his account  had been closed and it was only down to his diligence  that he saw there 
was still an amount to pay. 
Virgin didnt agree that it was wrong  to debit Mr Gs account. But it accepted that when he 
asked to close his account, he should have been  told the dispute was still pending. Virgin 
offered Mr G £50 for this. But he didnt accept its offer.  Instead,  he brought his complaint to 
us. He told us hed found out that the merchant involved in the dispute, who Ill call M, had 
45 days to respond to Virgin. He was unhappy that his account had been  debited after this 
deadline had passed. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Gs complaint. In short,  she thought Virgins offer of 
£50 in compensation was sufficient in the circumstances  here.  Mr G didnt agree. Briefly, he 
said Virgin hadnt followed its own procedures  it had accepted  information from M after the 
deadline to respond had passed. He also repeated that when he asked for his account to be 
closed, Virgin didnt  remind him the dispute was ongoing. 
As Mr G didnt  accept the adjudicators view, this complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. Mr G has told us he wants: an apology from Virgin;  for Virgin  to conduct a 
review of its complaint  handling procedures; an admission that it didnt follow its own 
procedures; and, £200 in compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the £50 already  
offered by Virgin to Mr G is a fair and reasonable amount.  Ill explain why. 
First, I want to point  out that we are a dispute resolution service,  set up as a free alternative 
to the courts. We are not a regulator.  We have  no power to fine or punish  financial 
businesses such as Virgin. Thats not our role. We cant tell Virgin  to conduct a review  of its 
complaint handling procedures  thats  not within our remit. 
Neither can we fine Virgin  if it failed to follow its own procedures. Again, thats not our role. 
But I can look at how any such failure affected  Mr G, and what, if anything,  Virgin needs to 
do to put things right. Thats what Ive done here.  
Ref: DRN30908832I can see that Virgin accepts that when Mr G asked for his account to be closed, he should  
have been told his dispute with M was still pending.  I can also see Virgin said it was really 
sorry it had let down  Mr G over this. 
Ill now turn to the dispute with M. This started  when Mr G purchased goods from it around 
September 2018. It seems he wasnt happy  with everything hed bought  and asked M for a 
refund of £111.58.  When he didnt receive this, he turned to Virgin for the refund instead. 
Virgin credited Mr Gs account with the disputed amount of £111.58 on 6 November 2018. 
Around three weeks later, M also made a partial refund of £77.99  to Mr Gs account. This 
meant that Mr G had effectively received a refund of £77.99  more  than the amount he was 
disputing. 
I can see from Virgins records that it sent the relevant dispute  paperwork to M on 30 
November 2018.  The rules covering such disputes meant M had 45 days from this point to 
respond  so, until 14 January 2019.  Its not disputed that M first responded to Virgin on 30 
January 2019,  after the deadline  had expired, before sending  a credit  to Virgin  a few days 
later on 4 February. 
I agree  with Mr G that it wouldnt have  been fair if Virgin allowed M to reject Mr Gs claim for 
a refund after the 45 deadline had passed. But thats  not what happened here. I think what  
actually happened  is that after the deadline had passed, M returned the remainder of the 
requested refund to Virgin. That was £33.59. 
Im satisfied that Virgin accepting this credit after the deadline had expired in no way caused  
Mr G to lose out financially.  Thats because  hed already had the refund of £111.58 (£77.99 
plus £33.59) from Virgin on 6 November 2018   as soon as he raised the dispute.  In fact, 
around three  weeks later he received a duplicate refund of £77.99  directly  from M. So, hed 
actually had this amount  refunded twice.  Mr G would  always  have needed to pay this 
amount back.  
When M contacted Virgin in February  2019, it wasnt disputing  the refund.  It was just 
refunding the remainder  of the disputed  amount.  If M hadnt already refunded £77.99 directly 
to Mr G in November, I would have expected the February credit to Virgin  to have been for 
the full £111.58, and that would have been  the end of the matter.  
Its important to point  out here that the February  refund was due to Virgin, not Mr G. Hed 
already had the full refund  from Virgin in November. After this point, any refunds from M 
were due to Virgin  to offset the money  it had already credited to Mr Gs account. 
So when M issued  a partial refund  to Mr G at the end of November, this meant hed received  
£77.99 too much. That is, £111.58 from Virgin  at the start of the month  which included the 
£77.99  and a duplicate  payment of £77.99 from M at the end of the month.  As above,  Mr G 
would have always needed to repay this duplicate refund. 
While I can see that Virgin accepted information,  and a refund, from M after the expiry of the 
45 day deadline, Im satisfied this didnt cause  a financial loss to Mr G. What  happened is 
that when Virgin received  the remaining refund, it applied  an adjustment of £77.99  to Mr Gs 
account to reflect that he owed this amount  as hed already been refunded twice in 
November. It wasnt  Ms actions in February that caused this amount to be debited. It was 
debited because, three months earlier, Mr G had received £77.99  too much.  
Ref: DRN30908833Mr G says that he saw he owed £77.99 because of his own diligence.  But Im satisfied Virgin  
took appropriate action to let Mr G know he still owed this amount. Ive looked  at a letter it 
sent to him on 20 February 2109  telling  him about  the outstanding  balance. The letter is 
addressed correctly. 
Ive also looked  at the statement that Virgin sent to Mr G on 3 March  2019. Again, this is 
correctly addressed. The statement also shows the outstanding balance of £77.99. So, Im 
satisfied that even if Mr G hadnt  already seen that he owed  this amount, Virgin  took fair and 
reasonable steps to also let him know about it. 
As Ive already  said, Virgin  accepts it should have  let Mr G know that the dispute was still 
pending when  he asked to close his account.  Its since said sorry for this, and it did let him 
know about the outstanding balance just over two weeks  after it was debited to his account. 
Its also important to point  out that Mr G wanted a refund  of £111.58. Virgin  credited this 
amount in full to his account within 24 hours of him raising the dispute. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied Virgins offer of £50 to compensate Mr G is 
proportionate to the situation here. Im not asking  it to do, or pay, anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that Im not asking Virgin 
Money plc to do, or pay, more than the £50 its already offered. I leave it to Mr G to decide  if 
he would  now like to accept this offer. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  that I will not 
be entering into any further discussion with the parties about  the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3090883