K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that BISL Limited (trading as Budget  Insurance) mis-sold motor  legal  
expenses protection  insurance polices to him and shouldnt have charged for them.
background
Mr L says in 2018 he became aware  of a way to get motor legal protection  free of charge. 
Previously, hed paid for these  policies as add-ons  to the main  motor policies hed bought 
through BISL from 2006 to 2010. He said hed also paid for comprehensive motor  insurance 
cover. But hed found commission was payable if a consumer was referred to a legal firm. So 
he thought he shouldnt have been charged  for the legal cover  (which wasnt  used anyway). 
He wanted BISL to refund the sums hed paid for it from 2006 onwards.
BISL said Mr L had bought his motor insurance  policies  online, where various  optional  extra  
policies were also available. Mr L chose to pay for a legal protection  policy  each year and 
was aware of the cost at the time.  It was also set out in the policy  documents. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ls complaint.  She said due to the time that had 
elapsed, BISL  didnt still have copies of all the policy documents. But it provided the ones  
from 2010 and 2011. They showed Mr L had only bought cover  for third party, fire and theft 
claims, plus the legal  protection cover. She thought enough information  was given for Mr L to 
decide what cover he wanted. She said she wasnt able to comment on BISLs commercial  
arrangements, but not using the cover didnt mean a refund was due.
Mr L said BISL had given a misleading  description of the legal protection  cover  and hadnt 
treated him fairly. Mr L insisted hed bought  comprehensive cover,  which he thought should 
include everything to do with a motor accident  claim. He said BISL  collected  two payments 
(one from him and one from any legal firm used)  despite doing nothing but referring the 
claim on. He said the insurance wasnt insurance  at all, so it was falsely described  and mis-
sold. Mr L asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Theres no evidence of the type of cover Mr L bought before 2010, but BISL  has shown that 
in 2010 and 2011 he didnt buy comprehensive  motor insurance policies. Even if he had, 
legal expenses protection cover isnt usually included in comprehensive policies. Its 
standard industry practice  for insurers and brokers to offer consumers several  types of extra  
cover for an extra premium. Its for a consumer to decide whether to buy them.  And it makes 
no difference whether the policies are used or not, as theyre there in case theyre needed. 
I dont think Mr L has shown that the legal expenses policies  werent suitable for his needs - 
or that it wasnt clear  from the outset what each policy  provided.  He decided he wanted them 
at the time, and he could have cancelled during each cooling-off period after thinking about 
it more. In my opinion, Mr L hasnt shown  that the policies were mis-sold.  I cant  see 
anything to suggest that BISL mis-described them, either, as Mr L has suggested. 
Although Mr L didnt use the cover provided  by the policies, had he been involved in a non-
fault claim he could have done  so and would have benefited. So I dont agree that he didnt 
Ref: DRN38529752get what he paid for. Any uninsured losses (those not covered by the main motor  policy) - 
such as the policy excess and the loss of use of his car - could have been claimed for.  
Mr Ls main concern seems to be that he shouldnt have had to pay for the policies if BISL  
was potentially going to get commission for any referral to solicitors. We dont know what 
commercial arrangements BISL  may have had in place - and that informations commercially  
sensitive. But as an intermediary, BISL only sold and administered Mr Ls policies. So it 
would have passed on Mr Ls payments for the policies to the insurer that underwrote them. 
I dont think Mr L has shown that BISL did anything  wrong, or that it departed  from standard  
industry practice, so Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3852975