K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (trading as Oodle Car Finance) has 
provided a car through a hire purchase agreement that wasnt of satisfactory quality. She 
complains Oodle hasnt  carried out repairs or allowed them  to reject the car. 
background 
Mrs W entered into the hire purchase  agreement on 14 December 2018. The car she 
acquired through the agreement was over 10 years old (since registration) and had done 
around 66,000  miles. Mrs W borrowed £6,000 repayable over 27 months. Although Mrs W 
entered into the hire purchase  agreement, it was predominately her son who drove the car. 
Mrs W reports her son wasnt allowed to drive the car on the test drive;  it was driven by a 
member of staff from the dealership. She says a noise was noted and her son was told it 
was normal. The dealership reported  Mrs Ws son did test drive the car and was warned  that 
his style of driving  might  impact the dual mass  fly wheel or clutch. 
I understand the car was booked into a garage on 21 December 2018 because of the 
knocking noise.  The garage carried out an inspection and discovered the dual mass fly 
wheel was faulty and advised Mrs W to contact  the dealer.  Mrs W said she did this but didnt 
get anywhere. 
In March 2019, the car seized and was immobile. The car was recovered by the 
aforementioned garage, which carried out a diagnostic test. It removed the inlet manifold and 
found a swirl flap was missing; it was suspected it had come away and been  ingested by the 
engine causing  damage. Mrs W notified  Oodle of the issues  with the car and complained, it 
in turn liaised with the dealership. As Mrs W was seemingly not getting anywhere, she asked 
us to get involved. During this time Oodle arranged for an inspection to be carried out. This 
took place on 7 May 2019 and it concluded  that any reported problems werent present or 
developing when  the vehicle was acquired. Oodle therefore didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Our investigator was satisfied the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt find the independent 
engineers report  persuasive as it said further inspection and investigation was needed but 
this didnt take place. And as swirl flaps are supposed to last the lifetime of a vehicle, he 
concluded there was likely a fault with the swirl flap and dual mass  fly wheel  when the car 
was acquired and so it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. 
Oodle disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said given the 
below average  condition of the car and the miles done since it was acquired it remained 
satisfied the problems were present or developing at the time. It also said it thought the 
engine failure  was likely a sudden occurrence  and as it had travelled over 6,000  miles  since 
it was acquired it wasnt in that condition when it was acquired. Oodle further argued the 
independent report  had been  carried out by a suitably qualified  inspector. 
Mrs W was particularly unhappy  to find out Oodle had disagreed  with the outcome reached;  
she had received a call saying the car was being  collected and a refund would be made. 
Oodle accepted it raised Mrs Ws hope  of this being  resolved in her favour  and offered £650 
in resolution for that. 
Prior to deciding this complaint, I asked that Oodle be sent the information from Mrs Ws 
garage inspection.  This included pictures showing the engine had been taken apart and the 
garages findings. Oodle had no further  comments to make.
Ref: DRN36548382I also asked Mrs W for further information:
What were they told by their garage about driving their car after it was inspected  on 
21 December 2018?  A: to drive  it carefully.
Did Mrs W have  evidence of contacting the dealership or Oodle notifying them of the 
problems with the car, prior to it seizing?  A: No this was all done verbally over the 
phone. 
What was the up to date position  with the car and the finance  agreement?  A: the car 
is currently being kept off road and not all repayments have been made.  Mrs W also 
told us her son bought  another  car as he needed  transport for work; they had asked  
for payment  breaks on the finance  which werent  granted,  and they cant afford both. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W acquired the car using a hire purchase agreement  in December 2018. As the finance 
provider Oodle is responsible for the quality  of the car provided.  The relevant legislation is 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 and, in summary, this means the car provided using the 
agreement should  be of satisfactory quality. 
When deciding whether something was of satisfactory quality, there  are a number of factors  
to consider, such the age and mileage of the car. This car was over ten years  old and had 
done around 66,000  miles so its likely it would have shown signs of wear  and tear. Oodle 
wouldnt be responsible  for any wear  and tear as this isnt a defect but it would be 
responsible for any defects you wouldnt expect (or reasonably be aware  of) for a car of this 
age or mileage. 
In this case there is quite  a lot of contradictory information; Mrs W says her son wasnt  
allowed to test drive the car and was told the knocking noise was normal,  whereas the 
dealership reported to Oodle that he did test drive the car and further that he was warned his 
driving style meant it wouldnt be responsible for any problems with the clutch or dual mass 
fly wheel. Further Mrs W says she tried contacting the dealership about the car but didnt get 
any help, but the dealership says it wasnt made aware of any issues  prior to the car seizing.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  this is what is most  likely to have happened  given  the evidence  
that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I fully accept that a persons driving style can impact on the longevity of car parts. In 
particular, Im aware that high mileage, a persons driving style or a worn  clutch can all 
cause or contribute to a dual mass  fly wheel  failing. Oodles engineers report  said given the 
time and mileage elapsed  since the car was acquired there was no evidence to suggest 
conditions would have  been developing at that time. 
However, I dont find this report persuasive. The engineer  has specifically reported that the 
inspection was limited,  and they couldnt comment on any knocking noise coming  from the 
engine as it was in a non-running state.   Further the engineer  recommended immediate 
attention under workshop  conditions and dismantling of the engine  assembly to determine 
the cause for failure. Oodle didnt arrange  for any further inspection and instead  relied  on the 
Ref: DRN36548383reports conclusion based on a limited inspection that didnt  actually review  the area of 
damage. 
There is evidence, which hasnt been  disputed by Oodle, that Mrs W took the car to a garage 
on 21 December 2018, and the knocking noise was found to derive from a faulty dual mass 
fly wheel. This was only a week after she entered into the hire purchase agreement. I 
consider it highly unlikely that any poor driving,  if indeed there was poor driving,  would have 
had an impact on the car part so quickly such that it was a weeks  driving that caused the 
part to become faulty.  I consider it much  more likely that the problem was already present  at 
the point she acquired the car, given  the extremely short space of time between  acquiring it 
and taking it to a garage.  I therefore find it most  likely there was a fault with the dual mass 
fly wheel  at the time the car was acquired,  which meant it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.  
I turn now to the swirl flap. As explained  by the investigator, swirl flaps should last the 
lifetime of the car regardless of someones  driving style. My research has shown  that faulty 
swirl flaps  is a known issue with cars of the same  make as Mrs Ws; they become brittle over 
time and snap off, causing damage to the engine.  The report from Mrs Ws garage recorded 
a missing swirl flap and suspected ingestion into the engine  causing the damage.   And I note 
the garage did dismantle the engine,  and again the pictures taken, and its findings were  sent 
to Oodle. Oodle  hasnt disputed any of the information provided  by the garage. As this is a 
known issue, and as the swirl flap had clearly come away, I find this is the likely  cause  of the 
engine damage  and it seizing. 
As this (and the faulty dual mass  fly wheel)  happened within  six months of Mrs W acquiring 
the car, the onus is on Oodle to show the faults  werent present at the time the car was 
acquired  that is, that it was of satisfactory  quality. I dont find the inspection  carried  out at 
Oodles request persuasive when compared  with the time frame involved, particularly in 
relation to the dual mass fly wheel,  and information  provided by Mrs Ws garage  which  did 
dismantle and examine parts of the engine.  Im not persuaded  Oodle has provided sufficient 
evidence these faults or defects only arose  after the car was acquired. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  provides the right for customers to reject goods for a number 
of reasons, including  if they arent  of satisfactory  quality. There  are two ways  for a customer  
to reject goods, a right to reject within 30 days or a final right of reject if a repair or 
replacement doesnt  result in the goods  conforming  to contract. 
Although Mrs W said she contacted the dealership  about the knocking noise following 
inspection by her garage, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence  in support of that. So Im 
not persuaded she has done enough to exercise her 30 day right to reject the car. 
As mentioned above, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows  the customer a final right of 
reject if a repair or replacement doesnt result in the goods conforming to contract. I am 
required to take the law into account, but Im also required to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances. I have borne in mind that this has been  ongoing for some 
time, and that in order to repair the damage  the car will require a new engine. I understand 
that such a job is labour  intensive, which may mean  it isnt repaired in a reasonable amount 
of time (something required under the Act). Im aware that an engine  replacement doesnt  
always result  in a car conforming to contract. I also need to bear in mind that the car has 
also been replaced, as transport was required by Mrs W and her son. Therefore either 
repairing the engine  or replacing  the car will result  in goods surplus to requirements.  
Ref: DRN36548384In the particular circumstances of the complaint, I find the fairest remedy is to allow  Mrs W to 
reject the goods  without  first allowing Oodle an opportunity to repair or replace the car, and 
treat the agreement  as if it were never entered into. Ordinarily, where I am asking for 
repayments to be refunded,  I would also ask for 8% simple interest to be paid on those 
repayments from the date they were paid to the date they are refunded.  But I havent 
required that here as I am mindful  Mrs W and her son did have use of the car for three 
months. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and require Oodle Financial Services  Limited  
(trading as Oodle  Car Finance) to:
Allow Mrs W to reject the car.
Arrange collection  of the car at no cost to Mrs W.
Treat the credit  agreement as if it had never  been entered into:
oRefund Mrs W any deposit  paid on entering the hire purchase agreement
oRefund Mrs W all repayments and fees charges that have been  made  
towards the agreement
oRemove any information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the 
agreement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3654838