K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) provided him with incorrect  
information regarding  his protected tax free cash entitlement  from his pension. As a result,  
he says hes lost out financially, because hes incurred an additional tax liability.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint in April 2019.  I said I was minded  to 
partially uphold  his complaint.  Mr W disagreed. He said hed relied on the email  sent to his 
adviser on 6 March 2018, setting out how much  tax free cash  he could take.  He said hes 
having to pay extra tax as a direct  result of relying  on this email.  He said the amount of 
compensation offered is therefore  insufficient  in the circumstances. Mr W also said that too 
much focus  had been put on the 2011  transfer documents, which  didnt definitely say that his 
tax free entitlement  would be lost.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.
the facts
Mr W transferred  his pension from Provider A to Aviva in May 2011. The amount transferred 
was around £63,000. Initially the correspondence from Aviva didnt show  he had a protected  
tax free cash entitlement.  From May 2013 onwards, Mr W received  correspondence from 
Aviva saying he had protected tax free cash on his policy. This correspondence also said 
that his tax free cash protection would be lost if he proceeded  with an individual  transfer.
In early 2018, Mr W enquired about transferring his pension from Aviva to another provider, 
Provider B. His pension  was transferred  on 21 March 2018 to Provider  B. Following this, 
Mr W accessed his tax free cash.  
After transferring to Provider B, Mr W received a tax bill from HMRC as he had accessed  
over 25% of his pension  and was required to pay tax on anything  over 25%. He was required 
to pay around £7,300  in tax as a result.   He said he was under the impression he was 
entitled to take a greater amount of his pension as a tax free pension  commencement lump 
sum.
Mr W complained  to Aviva. He said hed received correspondence from it confirming that he 
had protected  tax free cash on his policy. On 21 April 2018, Aviva  wrote to Mr W explaining 
that his protected tax free cash entitlement had been lost on transfer to it from Provider  A in 
2011. It apologised for not telling him this sooner. It upheld Mr Ws complaint. Aviva  paid 
Mr W £400 for failing  to give him the correct information about his tax free cash entitlement. 
It did not agree to meet his tax bill.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ws complaint and partially upheld it. Our 
adjudicator said looking at the transfer documents from 2011;  he couldnt see that Mr W was 
led to believe that he would have a protected tax free cash  entitlement on transfer. The 
paperwork said any entitlement to protected tax free cash may be lost on transfer. Further,  
our adjudicator said that when a Section 32 Buy Out contract is transferred, protected  tax 
free cash  is lost and therefore cannot be preserved.  The adjudicator felt Mr W should  have 
discussed the options and understood the implications with his adviser, prior to transfer.  He 
concluded that Aviva couldnt fairly  be held responsible for Mr W losing his protected tax free 
cash entitlement upon transfer in 2011.  
Ref: DRN31252692The adjudicator thought  however, that Aviva should compensate Mr W for the distress and 
inconvenience its communication  failures  had caused him. Aviva had sent Mr W two 
cheques of £400. He had cashed one of these.  Aviva said a second cheque  was sent in 
error. It asked Mr W to destroy it. Our adjudicator thought that this further error had caused 
further distress to Mr W. Our adjudicator thought Aviva should  pay him a further  £100,  £500 
in total, to compensate him for this.
Aviva agreed to make the additional payment of £100. However, Mr W didnt agree with our 
adjudicators recommended resolution.  He felt that Aviva should  also pay the extra tax due. 
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ws complaint has been  referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account what Mr Ws said 
about relying on Avivas  email of 6 March 2018.  Overall, I still think Mr Ws complaint should 
be partially upheld.  My reasons are largely  the same  as set out in my provisional  decision. Ill 
set these out again here.
loss of protected tax free cash entitlement
Ive looked at the transfer paperwork from 2011, I think it was clear from that, that Mr Ws 
protected tax free cash entitlement  may be lost on transfer in 2011. At the point of transfer in 
2011, I cant see that Aviva was responsible  for advising  Mr W on his options and the 
implications of opting to transfer. I understand he had an adviser. 
Mr W lost his protected tax free cash entitlement as a direct result  of choosing to transfer in 
2011. I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible  for Mr W losing his entitlement then. 
Mr Ws suggested that I place less focus on this early paperwork, and look specifically at the 
email sent from Aviva  to his adviser on 6 March 2018 to assess  his loss. 
liability to pay extra tax
In Avivas email of 6 March 2018,  it said this to Mr Ws adviser:
If the client were to take benefits  today under the current plan he would be entitled to a tax 
free cash  of £46,168.84 of the current fund value of £100,693.90. This is equivalent to 
45.9% of the current value and is therefore  in excess of the standard 25% entitlement.
Please not that this TTFC  would be lost on transfer  to a different pension  scheme.
Mr W didnt take his tax free cash under  the current Aviva plan. He transferred his plan to 
provider B, and then took cash.  Aviva  specifically warned Mr Ws adviser that Mr W would  
lose the total tax free cash entitlement mentioned in the email if he did this. I think Avivas 
paperwork also made it clear on a number of other  occasions that it may not be possible to 
preserve tax free cash entitlements on transfer. 
Post transfer to Provider  B, Mr W went on to take more than 25% of his pension in cash, he 
says because he thought he was able to take considerably  more  cash tax free. 
Ref: DRN31252693I cant know what Mr W wouldve done if hed been given correct  information by Aviva about  
his protected tax free cash entitlement before  transferring to Provider B. I cant know  if he 
wouldve still transferred,  or if he wouldve just taken 25% as cash, so as not to incur a tax 
charge, or if he wouldve  done something  else. But, given that he decided  to transfer to 
Provider B, even after hed been  warned of the consequences on his tax free cash  
entitlement, I cant reasonably or fairly  hold Aviva  responsible for the extra  tax that Mr W has 
had to pay following  the transfer.  So, I cant fairly require Aviva  to pay the extra tax 
Mr W is being required by HMRC to pay.
miscommunication 
Aviva did do something wrong,  which Aviva  admits, The 6 March 2018 communication  was 
incorrect.  Other communications were also unclear regarding Mr Ws tax free cash 
entitlement. The 6 March  2018 email was incorrect because  Mr W had already lost his tax 
free cash  entitlement back in 2011,  so he couldnt have taken the amount of tax free cash 
mentioned in that email, even if hed not transferred away from the Aviva plan. 
Given that Aviva got things wrong, I must go on to consider whether Mr W has lost out 
financially, as a result of the incorrect information given by Aviva. This service seeks to put 
people back in the position  they wouldve been  in, but for the error  or omission.  I must  look 
at whether Mr W wouldve  done something different  if he hadnt been given incorrect 
information by Aviva.
I cant see that Mr W has lost out financially because of this miscommunication. He didnt 
leave his money with Aviva under  the current plan, to take a higher amount  of tax free cash. 
He nevertheless went ahead with the transfer to Provider B.
distress and inconvenience
Like our adjudicator, I think Avivas miscommunication will have caused Mr W some distress 
and inconvenience  and not assisted  with his pensions planning. I note however, that at no 
time did Aviva provide  Mr W with any pensions advice.  He appears to have  been  receiving 
advice from a few different advisers.
I think, overall, £500 is a fair amount  to compensate  Mr W for the trouble  and upset hes 
been caused by Avivas  miscommunication. So, like our adjudicator, I partially uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. Aviva has already paid Mr W £400  in compensation for his distress  and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ws complaint and direct  Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay him 
£500 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. I note that £400 has already  been 
paid. This leaves an additional  £100  to be paid to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020. 
Kim Parsons
Ref: DRN31252694ombudsman
Ref: DRN3125269