K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy because  Unum Ltd have declined  a claim he made on his employers group 
income protection policy.  
background
Mr Ds job includes  operating machinery,  packing goods, dealing  with orders and working 
with couriers. In February 2018 Mr D was signed  off work by his General Practitioner (GP). 
He reported symptoms of low mood and was diagnosed with a depressive  disorder. Hed 
previously experienced  low mood and completed a course of talking therapy. His GP signed  
him off as unfit to work and prescribed medication.  Mr D tried, unsuccessfully, to return on a 
phased return to work in March 2018.  Ahead of his return to work he was prescribed another  
type of medication.  By this time the diagnosis  was anxiety and depression. 
Mr D continued to see his GP for symptoms of anxiety  and depression.  He was signed off 
again in April 2018 and remained off work until around September 2018. At the time he was 
signed off the GP increased Mr Ds medication  and referred him for talking  therapies. 
In May 2018  Mr D claimed on his employers group income protection  policy,  of which he 
was a beneficiary. Unum  declined the claim. Whilst noting Mr Ds history of low mood, and 
the medication he was on, they concluded Mr D was unsatisfied  with his current  role and the 
main barrier to work was the role itself. They said it wasnt due to a functionally  restrictive 
medical condition.  
Mr D complained and Unum issued a final response. They  said it was Mr D to show that the 
definition of incapacity was met and that his overall  circumstances  didnt indicate a 
functionally restrictive mental health disorder.  Unum said Mr D was actively  looking for work 
during the time he was off and was involved in sporting activities. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think  
Unum had fairly declined  the claim.  She was satisfied that Mr D had been unwell for the 
duration of the deferred period (13 weeks) and the medical evidence persuaded her Mr D 
met the definition of incapacity set out in the policy. 
Unum didnt agree and the investigator issued a further response, still upholding the 
complaint. She remained persuaded by the medical  evidence and recommended  that Unum  
paid the claim and backdated  it together  with 8% simple interest.  And she recommended 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience.  Unum didnt agree and so the case  was referred to 
an ombudsman for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  
It is for Mr D to demonstrate that he meets the definition of incapacity in order  to make a 
successful claim. That definition is met when Mr D can demonstrate that he is unable  by 
reason of illness or injury to perform  the material and substantial  duties of his job. 
Ref: DRN37113472Im upholding Mr Ds complaint as I dont  think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude  the 
definition of incapacity wasnt met. I say that because:  
Mr D did have a history  of low mood  and depression.  In 2016 he saw his GP about  
this and was referred  for talking therapies  which ended  that year. Theres  no further 
mention of his depression until when he was signed off work.  The GP noted  that 
hed had a breakdown  at work  and signed  him off. So, I think  there was a change  in 
Mr Ds symptoms at the time he was signed  off 
Mr D was off work between February  and May 2018, except for the short  period of 
time when he unsuccessfully tried to return to work. Throughout that time, he was in 
touch with his GP and he also started  taking medication. I note that shortly before  he 
attempted the phased return the GP prescribed Mr D with additional medication. And 
when the return  to work  was unsuccessful,  I can see that the GP increased  Mr Ds 
medication. All of this suggests to me that Mr D was experiencing  the symptoms  he 
described and that this wasnt a man who was simply unhappy with his job or role
I dont agree that Mr Ds medical records make no mention of anxiety attacks.  The 
GP records specifically refer to Mr D experiencing anxiety attacks in March 2018.  In 
any event there  is frequent reference to anxiety in the GP notes during the relevant 
time
Mr D expressed  to his GP that he wanted  to change his job, he felt stuck and had 
made lots of job applications. But I dont  think thats the full picture  or meant he was 
referring to what was happening at that specific time. I can see an earlier  GP note 
mentions hed made a number of applications in the previous four years.  And Mr D 
also talked about not having  the motivation currently to take part in further training 
courses. But I dont think  it automatically follows that he wasnt incapacitated in line 
with the policy terms. Mr D was clearly experiencing symptoms of anxiety and 
depression which  he was receiving treatment. And, for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain, I think it did impact his ability to do his job
Mr Ds job involved operating machinery,  dealing with orders  and interacting with 
other people. Given the nature  of his work,  I think it is reasonable to conclude  that 
having depression, anxiety  and panic attacks  would have an impact on his functional 
ability to perform the material and substantial duties  of his role
Ref: DRN37113473Ive taken into account what Unum has said about the GPs sick notes and their 
representations that taking anti-depressant medication doesnt mean someone cant  
work. However, for the reasons Ive explained, in this case  I think the overall  
evidence persuades me it is most  likely that Mr D was suffering from an illness  and 
he met the definition  of incapacity  when he made  the claim
I think Unum  should have accepted the claim when it was made.  It was also open to 
them at that point to conduct a more detailed review, for example obtaining more 
information from the GP or an independent  medical examiner,  if they had 
outstanding concerns  about the extent of Mr Ds functionality. However,  I dont think 
it was reasonable  to reject the claim outright  on the basis  of the available  evidence.  
 putting things right 
Unum needs to put things right by paying:  
The outstanding  policy  benefit  to the policyholder from the date that the claim was 
rejected to date.  Unum  should add 8% simple interest to the settlement figure.+ 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr D at an already difficult 
time. Hes described  how not having his claim paid meant  he struggled financially, 
has got into debt and caused him additional worry and stress. 
Mr D should note that the benefit will be paid to his employer, who is the policyholder.  Not to 
him directly. 
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint against  Unum Ltd and direct them  to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
+ If Unum  Ltd considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest it should tell Mr D much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN3711347