K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained about the way Assurant  General Insurance Limited  dealt with a 
claim for their device.  My references to Assurant  in this decision include  their agents. 
background
Mr and Mrs K registered a claim against their Assurant tech insurance policy for accidental 
damage to their device  in September  2018. Assurant requested  proof of ownership  from 
Mr and Mrs K and this took a while to arrange but eventually the device was collected by 
Assurant in April 2019. 
The device was repaired  and returned to Mr and Mrs K but shortly  after receiving it they 
reported the device was faulty. Assurant collected the device and said they would repair  it 
under the warranty  from the first repair. Assurant retuned the device for a second time on 
24 April 2019  but Mr and Mrs K called back  a day later to explain the device was still faulty 
and was making popping noises when they touched it. Mr and Mrs K also complained  to 
Assurant about  delays in correctly repairing the device. 
In response to the complaint Assurant  made  Mr and Mrs K a cash settlement offer of £79.99  
for the device, but Mr and Mrs K refused saying the device had sentimental  value  and that 
they wanted it repaired. Assurant agreed  to repair  the device for a third time and they also 
offered Mr and Mrs K £50 for the delays in correctly repairing the device. 
Assurant told Mr and Mrs K to securely package  the device and they arranged  for collection 
of it. When Assurant received the device in May 2019 it was damaged.  They contacted  
Mr and Mrs K and said because the device was damaged, they would need  to register a new 
accidental damage  claim  and pay a new excess.  
Mr and Mrs K werent happy  with the response  from Assurant. They said the device wasnt  
damaged when they gave  it to the courier, and the only issue was the popping  screen. 
Assurant say it was unable to examine the device due to the damage so are unable say if 
the device was faulty after the second  repair. Assurant said the device remained 
Mr and Mrs Ks responsibility until it was returned  to them and because it was damaged 
(even in transit by the courier), they cannot be reasonably expected to cover  the damaged 
device under the warranty. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and recommended  it be upheld.  She found it wasnt 
reasonable for Assurant to ask Mr and Mrs K to register a new claim and pay a new excess. 
She didnt  feel the new damage changed  what Assurant needed to do to put things  right for 
Mr and Mrs K and felt Assurant would have  needed to replace the screen in any event under 
the warranty. She said should  Assurant be unable to repair  the device the cash settlement 
offered by Assurant was reasonable.  And she felt the £50 offer for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs K was enough.  
Assurant didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
Although I agreed  with our investigators  outcome  I had done so for different  reasons, so I 
decided to issue a provisional decision before I made my final decision. This allowed both 
parties to comment on my thinking before I made  my final decision  which  is the Financial 
Ombudsmans Services last word on the case.
Ref: DRN36902282my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available  and wider surrounding circumstances.
Assurant acknowledged  the device wasnt correctly  repaired  in the first instance and 
agreed to pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs K.  But 
said they are unable to check the device to determine if any current fault is related to 
their repair because the device has been  damaged  further. 
Assurant say the damage is Mr and Mrs Ks responsibility and whilst they now agree 
the damage was most likely caused in transit with the courier, they feel Mr and Mrs K 
failed to securely package the device and thats  what resulted in the additional 
damage. So they maintain  Mr and Mrs K need  to pay a further  excess  for the device 
to be repaired.  
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree and said the device wasnt damaged  when it was passed 
to the courier. They  dont think they should  pay a further excess as they feel the 
device hasnt been repaired correctly from the outset. 
Its clear further damage happened to the device between the second repair and third 
attempted repair. And although initially Assurant felt it may have occurred during the 
delay between reporting the faulty device and returning it some two weeks later - I 
think it most likely occurred during  transit by the courier. I say this because Ive been  
provided the call between Mrs K and Assurant the day before the device was 
collected by the courier for third repair  in the call Mrs K is adamant on having  the 
device repaired rather than taking  the cash settlement and there was no mention of 
any further damage to the device during the call. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs K were responsible for any damage especially once the 
device was passed to the courier, as the collection and courier were arranged by 
Assurant. Assurant have  suggested the device could only have been  damaged  if it 
wasnt packaged securely but they havent provided any evidence  to support this. 
And I note that Mr and Mrs K had returned the device on two previous occasions  
without any problems with the packaging. So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs K 
packaging of the device  was the reason for the additional damage. Its likely that the 
device went through  a distribution process via the courier and the damage  could 
have happened  at any point after being collected but before being received by the 
repair centre.  
As the damage  most  likely occurred in transit,  I think its Assurants responsibility as it 
was their courier and not one arranged by Mr and Mrs K. I note the further return  
would have been unnecessary had Assurant carried out an effective and lasting 
repair  thats  what insurers  are required to do - it seems it failed to do that on this 
occassion. So I currently dont think reasonable for Assurant to require Mr and Mrs K 
to make a further claim. The fair thing to do is to treat it as part of the original claim. 
Ref: DRN36902283Assurant will need to repair the device. If thats not possible it will need to provide a 
cash settlement.
Mr and Mrs K previously  said they didnt want a cash settlement  but it if isnt 
possible to repair the device then I think the cash settlement previously offered by 
Assurant is sufficient as they have provided evidence to show similar devices are 
available to purchase for that figure. 
Assurant also offered £50 compensation. I think that is enough  to recognise whats 
gone wrong. Because its generally  in line with what I would have offered in the 
circumstances of the case.   
On that basis, I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Assurant responded  to my provisional  decision and they disagreed with the conclusion that 
they should repair the device or provide a cash settlement.  
They raised the following points:
they didnt  feel they could reasonably be asked to repair the device under the 
warranty as it had been damaged
if the damage occurred in transit  with the courier, it could only have been damaged 
because Mr and Mrs K hadnt securely  packaged  the device 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  respond to the provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  However I have answered the points put forward  by Assurant. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision  I think  a further return  of the device would not have 
been necessary  has Assurant carried  out a effective  and lasting repair  whilst I note 
Assurant say they havent been  able to inspect  the device due the new damage  but I note Mr 
and Mrs K reported the fault a day after receiving  the device back  from Assurant. So I dont 
think Mr and Mrs K would have looked to return  the device for a further repair  had it not been 
faulty. 
Assurant have again suggested the device could only have been damaged if it wasnt 
packaged securely but as mentioned in my provisional decision they havent  provided any 
evidence to support  this. And I note that Mr and Mrs K had returned the device on two 
previous occasions  without  any problems  with the packaging. And I also dont think  Mr and 
Mrs K were  responsible for any damage  especially once  the device was passed to the 
courier, as the collection  and courier were arranged by Assurant.
Ref: DRN36902284So I dont  think reasonable for Assurant to require  Mr and Mrs K to make a further  claim.  The 
fair thing  to do is to treat it as part of the original  claim. Assurant will need to repair the 
device. If thats not possible  it will need  to provide a cash  settlement.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision and above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint. To settle the complaint Assurant  General  Insurance  Limited should:
collect and repair Mr and Mrs Ks device  
if a repair  isnt possible, they should  pay Mr and Mrs K the cash  settlement of £79.99
if it hasnt already done so, pay Mr and Mrs K compensation  of £50 offered for the 
distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3690228