K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that The Trade Centre  Group  Plc mis-sold his motor warranty.
Mr C has been helped  in bringing this complaint by Mrs C. But for ease  of reading, Ill refer to
all actions and comments as being those of Mr C.
background
Mr C bought the 36 month policy for £999 at the same time as buying a car. He paid for it
with a finance agreement.  A few months later when Mr C part-exchanged his car he found
that the policy couldnt be transferred to another car and was non-refundable. Mr C
complained to Trade Centre, as he said the salesperson had told him the policy could be
transferred to another car. Mr C said hed bought the car so his wife, Mrs C, could visit her 
father in hospital.  And that he never intended to keep it for more  than a few months. He said 
he wouldnt  have bought the policy if hed known he couldnt transfer it to a new car.
Trade Centre said it had followed the correct sales process. It said Mr C confirmed he
intended to keep the car for 60 months  and had signed to say hed read and understood the
Pre-Contractual Explanation, which contained  details  of the transfer  restrictions.  It said this
document also included details of the 14 day cancellation period, which Mr C chose not to
do. It said it had also given him a second  explanation of the policy  from someone in its
compliance department who had, again,  pointed out the exclusions and cancellation rights at
the point of sale. Trade Centre  said Mr C could transfer  the policy to the new owner of the
vehicle if he sold it privately.
Mr C maintained that the salesperson had told him the policy  was transferrable to another  
car and brought his complaint to us. He asked for a pro rata refund.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 February  2020,  where I explained 
what Trade Centre needed to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
In order to treat its customers  fairly and reasonably, when selling a policy,  I think
Trade Centre should provide enough  information,  thats clear,  fair and not misleading,  to
enable the customer  to decide  if the policy is suitable for them.
The Pre-Contractual Explanation that Mr C signed  says that if Mr C transfers ownership of
the car, then the policy will immediately come  to an end. Although  he can pay a fee to
transfer the warranty to the new owner.  It also says Mr C has 14 days  from the start of the
policy to cancel it. I dont  think that clearly  explains  that the policy  cant  be transferred to
another car or that it cant be cancelled at other times.
The terms and conditions  of the policy say that the insurer will only issue  a refund if the
policyholder dies or the car is written-off. They also say that the policy  will end if the car is
sold and the policy isnt transferred. However, this is set out within section G of the policy,
which is near the end. And I havent seen  that this part of the policy was sufficiently drawn to
Mr Cs attention before he bought it.
I dont think the information  provided  to Mr C was clear enough for him to decide if the policy
was suitable. So, Ive thought about  what he most likely would have done if the information
had been clear.
Ref: DRN32011552Mr C said he and Mrs C went  to Trade Centre  with the intention  of buying a car of a different
make and model. However,  they needed to buy one urgently as Mrs Cs father was in
hospital and they needed the car to visit him regularly. He said they always intended to
change it when they found  one that they preferred and told the salesperson  that they
wouldnt be keeping it for long. Mr C said he didnt want to buy a cheap  car because it
needed to be reliable for the hospital  visits.
The finance  Demands and Needs  Assessment says Mr C wanted to keep the car for 60
months. Mr C said he put this as it tied in with the most affordable finance arrangement.  He
said he couldnt afford to buy a car outright and I think this is supported by him only paying a
£99 deposit.
On balance, Im persuaded by Mr Cs testimony  that he didnt intend  to keep the car. So, Im
satisfied that its most likely he wouldnt have bought the policy  if hed known he couldnt
transfer it to another car. To put things right Trade Centre should put Mr C back in the
position he would have been in if the information had been clear.  That means it should
refund £999 as the full cost of the policy, plus any interest Mr C paid by paying  for the policy
with a finance agreement.  If Mr C has paid off the finance agreement, Trade  Centre should
also add interest at 8% simple per year to the cost of the policy, from the date Mr C paid off
the finance agreement to the date it makes  payment, to compensate him for not having the
money.
Mr C didnt respond to my provisional decision,  but Trade  Centre  didnt agree. It said it 
worked hard to ensure  the policy was fully explained  during the sale and that it treated 
customers fairly. It also said it hadnt received other  complaints about this. Trade  Centre also 
said: 
It always asks for a £99 deposit  so that doesnt suggest affordability issues;
A number of other customers  asked to cancel their policies during the cooling off 
period showing  an understanding of the cancellation rights;
The range  of cars available  means  Mr C wouldnt have had to buy a car he wasnt 
completely happy with;
The demands and needs statement confirmed Mr C wanted to keep his car for 60 
months and was able to afford  £500 a month;
Mr C signed the agreement to say hed understood  the terms and conditions;
It wasnt made aware of any unusual  or difficult circumstances that meant  it might  
have considered refunding the premium  as a gesture of goodwill. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Trade Centres letter to Mr C says he decided to pay a £99 deposit. This implies  he had a 
choice about the amount of the deposit.  However, even if I accept Trade Centres point that 
all customers are asked for a £99 deposit,  so this doesnt imply affordability issues for Mr C. 
The other points  its made  havent persuaded me to change my findings.
I appreciate a number  of other customers might have  cancelled their policy during the 14 day 
cancellation period. But Mr C didnt want to cancel  his policy within  14 days.  He wanted to 
transfer the policy to a different car after 14 days. And I dont think that was clear in the 
documents Trade Centre provided. 
Ref: DRN32011553I understand Trade Centre sells a variety of cars. But I remain persuaded by what  Mr Cs 
said, that it didnt  have the particular  make and model he wanted on the day he went  to buy 
a car. Im also persuaded that he put that he wanted  to keep the car for 60 months as that 
fitted the finance agreement. So, Im still satisfied he had always  considered  the need to 
transfer the policy to a different car when buying it. 
I dont think Trade Centre  made  it clear  enough  that the policy  couldnt  be transferred to 
another car. And I dont  think  Mr C would  have bought the policy if hed known that. So, to 
put Mr C back in the position  he would  have been in if the information had been clear     
Trade Centre should refund the £999  premium. It should also refund any interest he paid as 
a result of paying for the policy on finance,  plus interest at 8% simple  per year from the date 
Mr C paid off the finance  agreement  to the date it makes  payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint and 
require The Trade Centre Group Plc to pay Mr C:
£999 to refund the full cost of the policy;
Any interest he paid as a result  of paying  with a finance agreement;
Interest at 8% simple per year from the date he paid off the finance agreement to the
            date it makes payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3201155