K820x#14complaint
Miss R says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Miss R was sold the policy in 2005  when she telephoned Capital One to activate a new 
credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Rs complaint because:
The PPI was sold to Miss R during a telephone call. Capital One hasnt been  able to give us 
a recording of the call. I dont  find that surprising as the call took place over 13 years ago 
and the credit card itself has been  closed since 2007. And I wouldnt expect a business to 
retain call recordings for that long.
Capital One has given us a copy of the script that it says was in use at the time of the sale.    
I dont know how closely the Capital One representative followed the script,  but I think  it 
likely gives an indication of how the call was structured. And I can see it wouldve been  
made clear the policy was optional.
I also note the PPI remained on Miss Rs account for some  time. And during  that time the 
premiums wouldve appeared on Miss Rs monthly  statements.  So if it was something  she 
hadnt asked for or wanted, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that she did.
So taking everything into account I think its most likely that Capital One made  Miss R aware 
she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. Although I can 
understand if Miss R cant recall  this after so many  years. 
From looking  at the script, I dont think Capital One recommended  the PPI to Miss R so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it still had to give Miss R clear  information 
about the policy so she could decide  for herself  whether to buy it. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Miss R doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things  
the policy didnt  cover. For example  Miss R has told us she didnt  have any existing medical  
conditions that wouldnt have been  covered.
Ref: DRN32506702It looks like Miss R was eligible for the cover. So shed have been able to make  a claim if 
she needed to.
Based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful 
to Miss R if things went wrong.  In her complaint forms to this service Miss R told us she 
wouldnt have received any sick pay from her employer if she was unable  to work due an 
accident or sickness. The PPI policy sold to her couldve  paid a monthly benefit for up to     
12 months if Miss R became unwell or lost her job. And Ive not seen any evidence that 
suggests the PPI premiums were unaffordable for Miss R.
Miss R was living at home at the time of the sale and has told us she could have relied on 
her family to help her if she had been unable  to make the credit card repayments.  Ive 
thought about this, and although Miss Rs family  would no doubt  have  wanted  to help her, 
they might  not have  been in a position to do so when Miss R needed help most. And in any 
event the PPI policy wouldve meant  Miss R didnt need to rely on family to pay her credit 
card repayments.
So after taking everything into account, I think its most likely Capital One made it clear that 
Miss R had a choice about buying  the policy  and she chose to take it. I also think  Miss R 
wouldve gone ahead and bought  it even if Capital One had given her all the clear 
information it should have. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint and I make  no award 
against Capital  One (Europe) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3250670