K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy with the way MCE Insurance Company Limited  has handled a claim on his 
motorcycle insurance policy.
background
Mr A had an accident and the next day he contacted MCE saying he believed he was at 
fault. Some four months later he received an email from the third partys  insurers threatening 
to take him to court as it said MCE hadnt  responded to its correspondence. He says he then 
had to waste time chasing up MCE. He wants MCE to acknowledge it didnt deal with him 
properly and to compensate him for his wasted time and the stress caused.
MCE said in its final response  that itd received  correspondence from the third party insurer  
and itd been handling the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.  And it would  
settle the claim on the best possible terms. But this could take some time.   
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Its not for us to consider who was responsible for the accident. But we can look at 
whether MCE has settled the claim fairly  and reasonably. The policy terms and 
conditions say MCE can take over the defence on the claim and settle it as it sees  fit. 
Mr A reported the incident to MCE saying he felt he was to blame. Over the next few 
months MCE corresponded with the third party insurer  and obtained evidence about  
its losses. MCE advised the claim was settled  in January 2019 but some  months  later 
a credit hire claim was also received and the claim is still open. 
MCE has considered  all the evidence from the parties and was entitled to seek  to 
reduce its loss. But third party  insurer chased  MCE on several occasions and it didnt 
respond. As a result the third party insurer then contacted Mr A for reimbursement. 
Mr A also contacted MCE for updates  on occasions. 
In recognition of MCEs  poor management of the claim and the stress its caused 
him, it should pay Mr A £250 compensation.
Mr A accepts the investigators  view. But MCE doesnt and has asked for an ombudsman 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
MCE is entitled under the terms and conditions of the policy to take over the defence of the 
claim on Mr As behalf and to settle  it as and when  it sees fit. In doing so its also entitled to 
consider the evidence provided by the parties  and assess  the losses  claim made by the third 
party. It appears to have done  so on this case. 
Its also not MCEs fault if a subsequent further claim was made  against  Mr A by the third 
party for credit hire losses which resulted in the claim  remaining open for longer.
Ref: DRN39678062Even so I dont think on balance that MCE managed part of the claim process reasonably. It 
didnt respond  to a number  of communications from the third party  insurer. As a result  Mr A 
was sent correspondence by third party insurer seeking reimbursement  of its losses and 
threatening him with court action if the money  wasnt paid. I think this wouldve come as 
shock to Mr A as hed reasonably have expected MCE to have dealt with the third party  
insurer in a timely way. It also couldve kept him better informed and dealt with his 
communications trying to resolve the situation better.
I think MCEs poor management of parts of the claim, particularly the resulting threat of court 
proceedings against him, understandably caused Mr A distress and inconvenience  not least  
as he had to spend a considerable time chasing up MCE to get it to deal with matters  and 
give progress reports.
I think that warrants a payment of some compensation. Taking everything into account,  
including the level of awards we make, I agree  with the investigator that a payment of £250 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right MCE Insurance Company  Limited  should  pay 
£250 compensation to Mr A.
MCE must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts  
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If MCE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr A how much  its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3967806