K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford.
background
Mr S took out a total of five loans with Mr Lender between  January 2014 and July 2016.
Loan Date Amount Date repaid No. of 
instalments
1 06.01.14 £300 27.01.14 1
2 01.02.14 £700 06.02.14 1
3 01.03.14 £700 02.06.14 1
4 29.09.14 £1,000 22.05.15 6
5 25.07.16 £1,000 - 6
Mr S repaid  the first two loans early. But he was unable to repay loans 3 or 4 when they 
were due, and repayment  plans  were  set up for both loans.  A balance remains  outstanding 
on loan 5.
Mr S believes that Mr Lender should  have realised from the number of times  he borrowed 
that his debt problems were  getting  worse. He says the loan repayments took so much of his 
wages that he had to borrow again. And he had a severe gambling  problem.  He believes 
that if Mr Lender had carried out adequate  checks,  it would have  been  clear to it that he 
couldnt afford the loans. So he believes it was irresponsible  to continue to lend to him.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought Mr Lender had carried out enough  checks before making the first and last loans. But 
she thought it should have carried out a full review  of Mr Ss financial circumstances before 
agreeing to loans  2 to 4. And she thought  that if it had done  so, it would have realised that 
he couldnt afford them. So she recommended that Mr Lender refund all interest and charges 
that Mr S paid on those  loans, with interest on the refund. And she said it should remove  any 
negative information  about those loans  from Mr Ss credit file.
Neither Mr S nor Mr Lender  agreed with the adjudicators view. But Mr Lender has offered to 
write off the outstanding balance on loan 5, in addition to paying the compensation 
recommended by the adjudicator for loans 2 and 3. As neither party agrees fully with the 
adjudicators view, the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr S 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Ref: DRN34743402Mr Lenders told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. Before the first loan it 
asked him for details  of his monthly  take-home pay and his regular monthly  expenditure. And 
it says it checked Mr Ss credit file. Although I havent seen the full results of the credit  
checks, Mr Lenders told us that they didnt show any adverse information such  as accounts 
that had entered a defaulting or delinquent status  within the last three years or evidence  of 
any IVAs or bankruptcy. And Im not aware  of any adverse  information  of this nature that 
would have been on Mr Ss credit  file at the time of the loans. 
Mr S told Mr Lender  his monthly income was £1,800. And his regular monthly expenditure 
amounted to £720. Mr Lender was entitled  to rely on the information  Mr S gave  it, in the 
absence of anything  to suggest it might  be unreliable. And based on that information,  it 
would have looked as if Mr S could afford  the loan. So I dont think  Mr Lender was at fault in 
agreeing to loan 1.
Loan 2 was significantly higher than loan 1, and Mr S applied for it just a few days  after hed 
repaid the first loan. The total repayment due was £910, which  would have taken most of 
Mr Ss declared disposable income.  Taking  everything into account, I think  that Mr Lender 
should have been concerned that Mr Ss finances werent as healthy as the income and 
expenditure figures hed provided might  suggest.  And I think that as a responsible lender, it 
should have taken steps to verify  the information  independently.
Ive looked at Mr Ss bank  statements  to see what its likely that better checks  would have 
shown Mr Lender. And having done so, I can see that Mr Ss existing credit commitments, 
when added to his regular monthly  outgoings,  left him with no disposable income.  So as a 
responsible lender, I think that Mr Lender wouldnt have made  loan 2 if it had carried out 
what I consider to be proportionate  checks.  And my view is the same regarding  loan 3, for 
substantially the same reasons.
Its true that nearly four months passed  between Mr S repaying loan 3 and applying  for 
loan 4. But he hadnt been able to repay  loan 3 on time. And loan 4 marked another  step up 
in the amount Mr S was applying  to borrow. I accept that the loan was repayable by 
instalments. So Mr S didnt have  to pay as much each month  as hed have had to if the loan 
had been repayable in a single payment. But he was committing to keep up regular 
payments over a six-month  period. Given the size of the loan, the length of the term, and 
Mr Ss loan history with Mr Lender, I again  think  that it should have taken steps to verify the 
information Mr S gave it independently.
So once again, Ive looked  at Mr Ss bank statements  to see what  its likely that better  
checks would have  shown  Mr Lender. And again, I can see that Mr S had existing short-term 
loans which  between them left him with no disposable income.  Whats  more, he was, as he 
says, gambling heavily. So I think that if it had carried out appropriate checks, Mr Lender 
should have realised that Mr S wasnt in a position to take on further  borrowing.
More than a year passed between Mr S finishing repaying loan 4 and applying for loan 5. 
Based on the information that Mr S gave Mr Lender about his regular monthly income and 
expenditure, it would  have  looked as if he ought to have been  able to afford the monthly 
repayments relatively easily. And given the interval  since his previous  loan,  I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Mr Lender to agree to the loan without carrying  out more detailed 
affordability checks.
Ref: DRN34743403So I agree with the adjudicator that as a responsible lender,  Mr Lender shouldnt  have 
agreed to loans 2 to 4. I understand that Mr S was disappointed that the adjudicator 
originally took the view that Mr Lender shouldnt have made any of the loans, but 
subsequently decided that it hadnt  been at fault in making loans 1 or 5. But Ive reviewed 
the complaint  independently, and have reached  the same  conclusion, for the reasons Ive 
set out.
putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed  to make loans 2, 3 or 4. So Mr Lender should:
Refund any interest, fees and charges applied to loans 2, 3 and 4. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation to loans 2, 3 
and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
In addition, Mr Lender  should write off the outstanding balance  on loan 5, as it has confirmed 
it is willing to do.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited  (trading as 
Mr Lender) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3474340