K820x#14The complaint
Mrs C says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of the policy  insurer.  I cant  consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  were  regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer  to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs C took out in 2001.  It was
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mrs Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Both Mrs C and AXA agree the policy was taken out during an interaction in a store.  Mrs C 
says she was told she had to take the policy in order to get the store card.  AXA should have 
taken reasonable  steps to make it clear  the PPI was optional. And it has provided a copy of 
Mrs Cs application form. The form has a section  for the PPI and applicants can sign to opt 
for the policy in this section if they wish to take it out. This section of the form has been  
signed by Mrs C. Had the policy been  compulsory   and intrinsically linked to obtaining the 
credit  its unlikely there would have been  an option to sign for it separately from the credit. 
And I note Mrs C has signed the overall  credit agreement,  so if there  was anything on the 
form she wasnt sure about or hadnt agreed  to, she would have had the opportunity  to 
question it at the time. 
But the form doesnt clearly state  that the policy is optional so in fairness  to Mrs C, Ive also 
looked at everything  we know about how AXA normally sold PPI around  that time.  And 
based on what we know about such sales, customers were usually asked to choose  whether 
they wanted PPI. Theres nothing  to suggest AXA didnt follow its normal procedures.  So, on 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mrs C was given a choice and she chose to buy the 
policy, even if she doesnt remember this now, many years later. 
Mrs C says AXA recommended the policy to her. AXA says it wasnt  an advised  sale. In our 
experience, AXA didnt normally provide personal recommendations for these policies. And 
Ref: DRN35221482nothing in what Mrs C has said suggests anything different happened here. So, AXA didnt 
need to make sure the PPI was suitable for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mrs C says she wasnt 
sure if she would have  got sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI would have paid 
out alongside any employee  benefits  she might have received. 
Ive noted Mrs Cs comments about not being able to claim on the policy  when she was 
made redundant in 2007. Mrs C says she was verbally turned down. Ive only looked at the 
mis-selling part of Mrs Cs complaint, but I can see that AXA invited Mrs C to make a 
retrospective claim on the policy. Its unclear if shes done this but Mrs C may still be able to 
do this. If she wants  to do this, Mrs C should get in touch with AXA to see if she can start a 
claim. 
Mrs C said she had savings at the time that she could have used to make her repayments. 
But having  the policy would have meant any savings she had could have been left intact or 
used for their intended purposes.  So, I think the PPI would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I also havent seen anything to make me think  the PPI was 
unaffordable. All of this means I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs C has lost out because of anything AXA might have done wrong.
I appreciate this outcome is likely to disappoint  Mrs C. Shes put time and effort into her 
complaint and Im sorry to hear of her financial difficulties. And Ive thought  carefully about 
everything Mrs C has said, but for the reasons explained above  these points  dont change  
my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3522148