K800x#10complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr W. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2010. Mr W was sold the policy  at the same 
time that he applied for the loan which it covered.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Santander disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold this case,  and will require Santander to make  redress to Mr W as set 
out below. I will explain why. 
The adjudicator said Mr W hadnt been  working for 6 months  when he took the PPI, and the 
PPI policy  made him only eligible to claim once hed worked for 6 months  continuously. So 
the adjudicator  thought the PPI was of limited  benefit. However, Santander has drawn my 
attention to its online application process  around the time the loan was taken out. First you 
had to click to either apply  for PPI or reject it. Then,  if you clicked to apply for PPI, it took you 
through various questions. One of these was asking whether you had worked  for six 
continuous months. If you ticked no it then opened  up a new page which warned you about  
the restrictions on claiming. You were then asked to confirm whether you still wanted to 
apply for PPI. 
Despite this, I still think the PPI was mis-sold.
Mr W has said hed only been in his job for 2 months  and before that he hadnt been working 
for three months. The fact that hed just started a new job is consistent with the information 
Santander has on its loan application record. And so I think Mr Ws recollection of his work 
history is likely to be correct. 
Ive only seen sample screen shots, and not copies of what Mr W actually  said when going 
through the online process. So I cant be sure Mr W did confirm hed been in continuous 
employment for 6 months. But even if he did, he cant have properly understood the question  
or its significance. And, if he answered no, a further  screen would have come up with 
various pieces of information, amongst  which was the advice that he couldnt make  a claim 
until hed been  working continuously for 6 months.  But, even if Mr W understood this, there 
wasnt clear information  on that page  to explain that hed still have to pay premiums  even for 
the period he wouldnt  be able to claim.  So, over the life of the 12 month loan, the PPI 
premiums would have  been relatively much more expensive for the period of actual  cover  he 
received.
Ref: DRN30050092I think, given the actual  cost compared to actual cover, hed not have thought it worthwhile. 
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr W in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If a payment  has already been  made to Mr W in respect of commission  for this PPI, 
Santander may deduct that from the above amount. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Santander  UK Plc to pay the redress as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3005009