K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Lowell Financial  Ltd wrote  to him demanding payment of an outstanding 
debt when itd agreed to correspond with his father. He says Lowell  Financial wont  agree his 
fathers offer to settle the debt.
This complaint is brought on Mr Ss behalf  by his father. For the remainder of this decision,  I 
will refer to him as Mr S2 and his father as Mr S1.
background
Lowell Financial purchased Mr S2s debt from the original lender in February 2014. 
Following a complaint  which was brought to this service, Mr S1 says Lowell didnt engage 
with him about  settling  the debt as agreed, but continued to contact Mr S2.
Lowell Financial apologised  and paid £300 compensation as a gesture  of goodwill. It said it 
would accept a 50% discount on the amount outstanding, leaving £2,014.75 to be paid.
Mr S1 didnt  agree and offered to pay £1,700, on Mr S2s behalf, in full and final settlement.  
But Lowell Financial  didnt  accept that offer and Mr S1 brought the complaint to us on his 
sons behalf.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She concluded that the 
compensation paid was appropriate. And she acknowledged  that both parties had taken 
steps to try to agree a final settlement  figure. She thought it was fair and reasonable that 
Lowell Financial should accept Mr S1s offer of £1,700  to close the matter.
Lowell Financial didnt  agree saying,  in summary, that its 50% discount was fair and 
reasonable, taking  into account  it had written off the outstanding balance  on two other 
accounts in Mr S2s name and that it had awarded £300 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S2 has been experiencing financial difficulties for some time and it seems  his 
circumstances havent improved for around  five years.  Ive not seen what  contact 
Lowell Financial had with Mr S2 since it bought  the debt. But, from what Mr S1 has told us, 
theres no prospect  that Mr S2 is going  to be able to settle the outstanding debt.
But Mr S1 has offered  to reach a settlement  on his sons behalf and he has corresponded  
with Lowell Financial  to try to agree  a figure.  He has offered £1,700,  but Lowell Financial 
says it will only accept £2,014.75. Neither  party is prepared to negotiate further.  My role is 
not to decide what  sum Mr S1 should  pay, but to decide whether Lowell Financial  has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Lowell had purchased two other debts in Mr S2s name and, because  of his circumstances, 
agreed to write off the balance  and close the accounts. Taking  into account its offer to write 
off half of the remaining debt, its agreed to write off £3,460.31 in total - around 63% of the 
debt. So I find it has taken  steps to try to come to an amicable solution.
Ref: DRN38249142Although Mr S1 has increased the amount  hes prepared to pay, he doesnt agree to pay any 
more. Hes asking Lowell  Financial to write  off around 69% of the outstanding debt.
After careful consideration, I dont think Lowell Financial has acted fairly in rejecting Mr S1s 
offer of £1,700. Its obliged to consider seriously any reasonable offer.  I havent seen 
evidence to suggest that Mr S2 is in a position to make any additional repayment towards 
the outstanding debt,  or that his circumstances have changed over the last five years, or are 
likely to change in the near future. And I think Mr S1 has made  a reasonable offer  after 
increasing it in response to Lowell Financials rejection of his previous offers.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Lowell Financial Ltd should write off 
£2,349.51 of Mr S2s outstanding debt.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3824914