K821x#15complaint
Mr T complained that he was mis-sold  a store card payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has taken  responsibility  for this 
complaint, so Ill refer to FICL from now on.
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I proposed  to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I 
invited FICL  and Mr T to send in any further  comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 30 April 2019,  before I reached  a final decision. Neither FICL nor Mr T sent in a 
response.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither FICL nor Mr T provided further 
evidence or arguments  for consideration, Ive no reason to change  the conclusions  set out in 
my provisional decision. So Im upholding Mr Ts complaint.
fair compensation
I understand Mr Ts card account is closed. FICL should put Mr T in the financial position 
hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr T would have owed when he closed his card account  
if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr T owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr T made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr T would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until the refund  is paid.  The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr T would have  owed each  month without PPI  Mr T 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr T paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mr T 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr T what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Mr T by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
Ref: DRN34797742FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can reclaim the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  should pay him the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34797743COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complained that he was mis-sold a store card payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) has taken responsibility for this complaint,  so Ill refer 
to FICL  from now on.
background
Mr T took out a store  card in March 1991. The PPI was added in August 1993,  and FICL  said that this 
was done by phone. It also said that Mr T wasnt advised to take the PPI. Mr T said he had no 
recollection of PPI being added to the card.
The monthly  cost of the policy was no more than £1.00 for each £100 Mr T owed on his store card.  It 
provided life, accident, sickness and unemployment  cover for Mr T. If hed successfully claimed on the 
policy, each month it wouldve paid out 15% of what he owed on the card when he stopped working. 
This wouldve carried on until he returned  to work  or the balance was cleared.  
Our adjudicator thought there wasnt enough evidence to say that the policy  was mis-sold,  so didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Im proposing to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain  why.
This is difficult case to decide given that theres so little information  from the point of sale,  and the 
sale took place so long ago. So Ive had to consider what I think  is most likely  to have happened,  
based on what I do have.  FICL sent us a copy of Mr Ts store  card application  although at that point 
Mr T declined  the PPI. FICL said that the policy was sold in a phone call some two years later, but it 
couldnt give us a recording  of the call or a sales script. Mr T doesnt remember being  told anything  
about PPI, although that may be just because of the passage  of time.  
From what we know about other FICL sales  of this type, I dont think  its likely  that it advised  Mr T to 
take out the PPI. But it should still have given him enough information  for him to decide  if the policy 
was right for him. Im not satisfied that it did. 
Mr T initially said he was employed at the time of the sale. However, when he brought  the complaint 
to us, he said he had actually been self-employed  at that point, and he sent in a letter from a separate  
business (about an unrelated complaint),  which states  that he had told that business he was self-
employed in 1990. I accept that was some three years before he took out the PPI. However,  looking 
at the employment information on the store card application from 1991,  his occupation  matches what 
he said he was doing as a self-employed person (rather than the employment details he originally  
gave, and which I wouldve expected to see given the length of service he originally  stated). 
I cant  tell whether the storecard  application was completed  by the salesperson or Mr T, but I can see 
that the employment  status was changed, in that one tick box was completed and then crossed  out 
and another  box ticked. The copy of the application is of rather poor quality, so I cant  be sure which  
box was eventually ticked - but it does make me think there may have been some uncertainty about 
how his employment  situation should be described  at that point. Im also conscious that in the type of 
work Mr T said he was doing, its not uncommon  for someone  to be self-employed but working for 
others on particular jobs. Mr T also sent in more  information about his employment  history,  which was 
quite detailed  in terms of dates, and which stated  that he was self-employed from 1990 to 2000. 
Ref: DRN34797744Whilst these  pieces of information arent necessarily conclusive in themselves, taken  together they 
lead me to think it was more  likely than not that Mr T was self-employed in 1993, when  the policy was 
sold, rather than employed.
I cant  know  how the salesperson  explained  the policy, but I think its unlikely that Mr T was given 
complete information about it over the phone. I can see that it wouldve been more  difficult  for Mr T to 
claim for unemployment  as a self-employed person  than an employed  person - he wouldve  had to be 
declared bankrupt or totally ceased trading due to insolvency.  I dont think its likely Mr T wouldve 
taken the PPI if hed understood this. 
I also note that Mr T said that he had some savings (with his wife) and received  an index linked  
services pension   and more  recently  he said this wouldve  amounted to about  £200 per month at the 
point of sale.  Whilst  I dont know what other commitments Mr T had at the time,  I do think that having  
a guaranteed income of some kind if he couldnt work  is likely to have given him pause for thought 
when deciding  about PPI.
Taking all of Mr Ts particular circumstances into account, Im not satisfied that he wouldve taken the 
PPI if hed been  properly informed. As a result Im minded  to uphold  Mr Ts complaint and to require 
FICL to put things right. 
fair compensation
I understand Mr Ts card account is closed. 
FICL should put Mr T in the financial  position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Mr T would have owed when he closed  his card account  if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mr T owed when he closed his account 
and what he would have  owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr T made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for the claim 
from the compensation amount.  
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr T would  have owed when he 
closed his account from when he closed  it until the refund is paid. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
C. If  when  FICL  works out what Mr T would have owed each  month without PPI  Mr T paid more 
than enough to clear his balance,  FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mr T paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr T wouldve owed FICL  something 
on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. FICL should tell Mr T what its done to work out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown  any commission  redress repaid to Mr T by the lender if the 
commission redress relates to this PPI sale.
FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can reclaim the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN34797745my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I propose to uphold Mr Ts complaint, and to require Financial  
Insurance Company  Limited to pay him the compensation Ive described. 
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3479774