K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
with their mortgage. Mr and Mrs J have also raised a concern about the amount of money 
they received  from the policy when Mr J claimed  on it when he was made  unemployed.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs J applied for and took out a mortgage following a branch meeting. At the 
same time they also took out PPI designed  to protect their mortgage payments in the event 
Mr J  the policy was in his name only  couldnt work due to accident, sickness or if he was 
made unemployed.
The policy cost around £13 a month and it provided  a monthly benefit equal to the mortgage  
payment  around £230.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs J, through  their representative 
disagreed, so the complaint came  to me to decide.  
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019  because while  I intended to agree with the 
adjudicators overall conclusions,  I wanted to expand on my reasoning. In summary I made 
the following  provisional findings:
Santander made it clear in the paperwork I thought they completed  at the time that 
Mr and Mrs J had a choice about  PPI and they agreed to take it out.
Santander recommended  PPI, so it had to ensure  it was suitable for Mr and Mrs J.
Based  on their circumstances at the time, I thought PPI was suitable   they had a 
need for cover and they werent caught  by any of the significant  limits  on or 
exclusions to the cover.
Santander might not have given Mr and Mrs J all of the information they needed 
about PPI - or in a timely manner - to allow them to make an informed decision. But 
for the reasons why I thought the policy was suitable for them, I didnt  think  theyd 
have been put off taking the policy out if Santander had done anything more.  
The information provided by Santander appeared to show that Mr and Mrs J hadnt 
received the wrong  amount of money  when Mr J made an unemployment claim. Mr J 
was paid by his employer in lieu of notice, so his unemployment claim  after the 28 
day deferral or waiting period  was for one month. And this is what Mr and Mrs J 
were paid for.
But I reminded Mr and Mrs J that any formal complaint  about  a policy claim would  
need to be directed  to the insurer  and not Santander as the seller  of the policy   but I 
hoped that my explanation of the situation  was helpful for them.
Santander didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs Js representative confirmed safe receipt of my provisional  decision and said it 
was waiting for a response from Mr and Mrs J. It noted the deadline for responses.
The deadline  for responses has now passed and weve  not received anything  from Mr and 
Mrs J and/or their representative.
Ref: DRN30511042my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im mindful that Mr and Mrs J have not replied to my provisional decision,  Im satisfied  
theyve been given the chance to and that they were  aware of the deadline. I therefore think  
that if they wanted to respond  they wouldve done  so by now. 
So because Ive not been given anything new to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
reasoning and conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3051104