K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he was given incorrect advice  by American  Express  Services Europe  
Limited (AESEL). He says he was told a purchase of goods would be covered under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He wants it to accept joint liability with the supplier  in 
the event of a future claim.
background
Mr F tells us he sought advice from AESEL  about a purchase of goods he was considering 
making. He says his preferred retailer used a payment terminal  supplied  by a third party  Ill 
refer to as Z. Mr F says he was aware  that certain  types of credit card payment,  made  
through third parties, would prevent him from making a Section 75 claim if anything  should 
go wrong with the purchase. So he wished to know if he would be covered in future if the 
need should arise. He says he was first told by AESEL that using his retailer and Zs 
payment terminal would not have any adverse effect. He says AESEL has now said he 
wouldnt be able to claim - as this type of payment wouldnt meet  the conditions which permit 
a Section 75 claim to be pursued.
AESEL issued a final response letter. It said Mr F had been  misinformed and that any future 
claim, based on Section 75, would  be rejected  in respect of the relevant  payments. It said 
the necessary  debtor  - supplier - creditor relationship had been  broken. And it would not 
agree to give Mr F these  rights. It said it had credited Mr Fs account with £50 by way of an 
apology for the error.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 February  2019.  I explained I wasnt 
minded to uphold  the complaint. Since  then AESEL  has not responded but Mr F did reply. 
He said he didnt agree  and emphasised that all he wanted was for us to say he should be 
able - if the need  arose - to ask for AESEL to consider  a claim under Section 75. I thank Mr 
F for his reply and Ill deal with his comments  in my final decision.  But as Ive not been 
supplied with any further evidence Im not minded to change  my provisional view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr F is feeling disappointed and frustrated with whats  happened. He was 
clearly anxious to ensure - as far as he could  - that he would have the benefit of protection  
contained in the relevant legislation. And that this would cover him if problems arose  with his 
purchase. So I can understand his concern when having been assured his purchase would 
be protected - he was then informed he would not be covered.
This complaint raises a number of important points which Ill outline in detail as they are
relevant to my findings.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is an informal resolution service.  We try to assist parties 
to settle their differences where a dispute arises which falls within our jurisdiction. We are 
required to make decisions on the basis of rules laid down in statute and by the
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). In particular under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
Ref: DRN31571322DISP 3.6.1: The ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in his 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 In considering  what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the ombudsman  will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations
(b) regulators rules, guidance  and standards
(c) codes of practice
At various stages during  the complaint the parties have raised issues which they would like 
me to determine. For the sake of convenience Ive set these out under separate  headings. 
But theyre so closely  connected as to be almost indistinguishable. The parties  want to know  
if:
 Mr F was misadvised in relation to whether he would be covered by Section 75
  the  debtor - supplier - creditor relationship  was broken by using Zs terminal
 In the event of a future  issue  arising with the goods/services purchased  if Mr F would have 
the option of the complaint being  considered under Section 75
  AESEL has a case to answer at this time
Its clear Mr F was advised  incorrectly. He was - on separate  occasions  - given  contradictory  
responses to what was essentially a question requiring  a yes or no answer.  Was the debtor -
supplier - creditor  relationship broken by using  Zs terminal?
Whilst I understand both parties might prefer if I was to give a decision on this point - I dont  
think I need to decide  which answer  was correct in order  to deal with this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In limited circumstances,   Section 75 allows a consumer - who uses  a credit  card to pay for 
goods and/or services  - to make  a like claim against the provider of credit as he could 
against the supplier  of the goods and/or  services.  This only applies where theres been a 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation by the supplier.  Other conditions also apply. The 
legislation requires there to be a debtor - supplier - creditor relationship. Its necessary for 
the creditor to have provided  the credit in the course  of business under an arrangement  
between the creditor  and the supplier.
Whether the debtor - supplier - creditor relationship existed in respect of the relevant 
transactions is a matter  of law. As I dont apply the law - directly - I cant  say if Section 75 
was engaged by these  transactions - that would  be for a court  to decide. 
And theres  no complaint before me where Section 75 might be relevant legislation  for me to 
take into account. At the present time Mr F is not suggesting theres  been  any 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract in respect of goods supplied through these 
transactions.
Ref: DRN31571323So the question  as to whether the debtor  - supplier - creditor relationship has been  broken 
does not arise in the present circumstances of this complaint. Nothing which might lead to 
Mr F making  such a claim about these transactions is yet apparent - and hopefully  never  will 
be. And it would be wrong - as well as futile - for me to speculate  on how a future claim 
would be handled.
Im aware Mr F isnt asking me to guarantee  a claim under Section 75 would succeed. 
Rather,  he wants to be reassured  any relevant future claim would at least  be considered 
under Section 75. 
In one sense it would  be possible to give that assurance - as all relevant legislation is 
considered. Even though it might then be discounted as not being applicable to an individual  
complaint.
But I think what Mr F really wants goes  beyond mere  consideration.  He wants  me to rule in 
advance that the method of payment he used did not break the debtor  - supplier - creditor 
relationship. And he feels the effect of this would be - in the event of a future claim -  to 
prevent AESEL using  that ground to refuse  the claim  if the other grounds were  made  out. 
Whilst I can see why he feels this might  provide some  reassurance I cant  agree.  As Mr F is 
referring to a possible - but not certain  - future occurrence theres no way of knowing if or 
when this would occur. So theres no guarantee that Section 75 will still be relevant 
legislation to be taken  into account at the time. Changes  in legislation  are not uncommon. It 
would therefore  be wrong for me to give him the assurance he seeks.
And I dont  think it would assist the parties even  if I did make  a finding on the debtor - 
supplier - creditor  chain. Any decision I make is not binding on another  ombudsman  - so 
whichever way it went would not really  settle  the issue.
And as we treat each separate  complaint individually - it is not desirable  to offer a view on 
what would  be only one of many factors affecting any future claim.
As AESEL accepts an error arose  and has credited  Mr F with £50 to acknowledge this I 
shant be asking it to do anything further.
Im aware Mr F is likely  to be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons given Im 
not  upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3157132