K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
When arranging their joint mortgage in 1999,  Mr and Mrs O took out PPI during a meeting at 
a Halifax branch. The policy covered Mr O and it protected the monthly mortgage  
repayments in the event  that he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion. Their main  complaints  are that the policy was added on without their knowledge and 
they say they didnt  need PPI as Mr O had a good sick pay package  at work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Heres why I say this.
Although PPI was taken  out just for Mr O, as this was a joint mortgage with Mrs O, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  at the time. 
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs O mightnt  be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when  they arranged their mortgage. This was a long time ago and I cant safely  
rely only on what they say now. I have  to decide what  I think is most likely taking into 
account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs O aware  that the PPI was optional and that they chose  to 
take it out to cover Mr O. I say this because while they were in the process  of arranging their 
mortgage, as well as filling  in their mortgage  application, Mr O also completed a separate  
PPI application.  On this form, he put his name down as the person to be insured and Mr O 
signed the completed form to get the policy. 
So, on balance, I find that the PPI was added on to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage account when 
they chose to take it out for Mr O.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI and it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr O was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions  that 
applied. 
Mr O was covered for disability and unemployment. Ive taken into account that Mr O had 
some sick pay. But if he made  a successful accident  or sickness claim the policy  couldve 
paid out for longer than he couldve depended  on getting sick pay from his employer - up to 
24 months per claim. And the monthly benefit wouldve been paid on top of any sick pay 
received through work. This couldve been useful  particularly if he had extra  costs  as a 
result of illness or disability.  
Ref: DRN33812642PPI also protected  Mr O for up to 24 months per claim in the event  he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
The policy provided long term protection as Mr O couldve made repeated claims on it. 
Their mortgage  was a financial commitment they expected to have for a long time and their 
home couldve been at risk if Mr and Mrs O found  themselves unexpectedly unable to keep  
up the monthly mortgage repayments. So I think PPI couldve been a useful  benefit  in what  
wouldve been difficult circumstances  for Mr and Mrs O. 
Mr O was the main earner. So although  Mrs O was also in work when they took out their 
mortgage, I think its likely that losing Mr Os income wouldve had a substantial  impact on 
their joint financial circumstances in the long term  PPI protected  them against that risk. 
Apart from their earnings, Mr and Mrs O told us that they had no significant other means 
they couldve relied on to make  their mortgage  monthly repayments. So, overall, I think that 
Halifaxs recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs O about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it doesnt look as if Mr O was affected by any of the things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having more information  about the policy  
exclusions and limitations wouldve  put them off the PPI. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs O about the monthly  policy cost. But 
they chose to take out cover when  they didnt have  to. So they seem to have  been  happy to 
pay for it at the time. Ive seen nothing that suggests  paying for the cover was a problem for 
them. As Mr and Mrs O paid for the policy each month, they couldve  cancelled it at any time 
without losing out financially if they no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs O still wouldve decided to buy the policy  for Mr O even if theyd been 
better informed as the PPI gave them useful protection in their particular  situation.  And, on 
balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  to Mr and Mrs O some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs O paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
This means  it doesnt need to take any steps to put things right.  
Ref: DRN33812643my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3381264