K820x#14complaint and background
Mr A says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. He took it out on the phone in 2003  to protect  his loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint saying Mr As circumstances were such that he didnt 
think Mr A would have taken out PPI if the cost and benefits had been made clearer.  
Nationwide disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I wasnt 
planning to uphold the complaint. I asked Mr A and Nationwide  to let me have any more 
information by 30 June 2019  before I made a final decision.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision.  He disagreed  with my conclusion, saying there 
was no call recording to substantiate Nationwides sales process; he was led to believe PPI 
was part of the loan package; its a compliance failing that he wasnt  asked about his health  
or other means; and as he was young and fit, he had sufficient other means to cover him for 
long enough  to recover from any short or medium term illness.
Nationwide responded saying it had no further  information to provide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
 
Ive considered Mr As points carefully.  But they dont  change my conclusion. Ill explain why.
I noted in the provisional decision that there was no call recording  but thats not surprising 
or unreasonable as the sale was so long ago. And that doesnt  automatically mean  I can 
fairly conclude Nationwide didnt follow its standard sales process. I havent found  enough  
evidence to fairly conclude that it didnt.
Mr A says he was led to believe the PPI was part of the package. I do not doubt this is his 
honest recollection, but I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that 
might affect what he remembers of the sale. I cant know what was said on the call, but the 
loan agreement he signed describes the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance . And Ive seen no 
new evidence that would  lead me to change my conclusion  that its most  likely Nationwide  
made clear the PPI was optional, and Mr A chose to take it.
As I set out in the provisional decision, I think its most likely Nationwide didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr A. Mr A hasnt provided any new evidence  that persuades me otherwise. This 
means it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. So I cant  agree  that it was a failing that it 
didnt ask him any questions about  his health  or existing protection.
Nationwides obligation was to give Mr A enough information so he could make an informed 
decision about buying the cover. And Mr A argues that he had adequate other  means not 
need the PPI. But he hasnt sent any more specific information on his circumstances  that 
would lead me to change  the conclusion I reached on this point in the provisional decision.  
For the reasons  set out there - the relevant paragraphs are inserted out here for ease  
Ref: DRN30785342Ive thought about whether Mr As circumstances  were such  that he didnt have a strong need for 
the cover - so would better information on the cost and benefit of the policy have changed  his 
mind about  buying it? Through a combination of his sick pay and Permanent  Health Insurance  it 
seems Mr A would have received full pay for six months and then half pay until retirement, or his 
return to work,  if he was sick. 
Weve asked  Mr A for evidence of the employee  benefits he wouldve been entitled  to when  he 
took out the PPI, but as yet he hasnt  provided  anything. So I dont know exactly what sick pay 
and / or insurance  cover  he had from his job. But even if his recollection is right,  this means 
without PPI he could have been trying to live on half his salary  for a long period  of time whilst still 
needing to make his loan repayments  and pay all his other living  expenses. A successful PPI 
claim would have covered his loan repayments if he was sick, or had an accident, for the life of 
the loan (36 months). Hes told us he had a small amount of savings  but the PPI would have 
allowed him to use these for other living  expenses whilst not working,  or to keep them intact for 
his future needs. 
 I dont think better  information  on the cost and benefit would have changed his decision. I 
note he has pointed out that he was young and fit but that doesnt  change my assessment. It 
doesnt preclude him from being in an accident, losing his job or suffering from a serious  
long-term illness.
It follows my conclusion  remains  that Mr A hasnt  lost out because of any problems with the 
sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30785343copy of provisional decision  
complaint
Mr A says Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr A took out PPI to protect his repayments at the same time as he applied  for a loan. The sale took 
place on the phone in 2003.  The PPI gave him accident, sickness  and unemployment cover and the 
loan included  an amount to pay for the policy upfront.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint saying Mr As circumstances were such that he didnt  think Mr A 
would have taken out PPI if the cost and benefits  had been made  clearer. Nationwide disagreed  so 
the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed it here.
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mr As complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A personally. From what Ive been told about  its 
usual sales process at the time, thats probably right. Ive not seen anything  to show me clearly  that it 
didnt follow its usual process with Mr A. This means it didnt have to check if the cover was right for 
him. But it had to provide  enough information to allow him to make an informed decision about  
whether to buy it.
did Nationwide make  the cost of the PPI clear?
There is no call recording available so I cant know what  cost information Mr A was given during the 
sales call. On Mr As loan agreement  there  is a column showing the PPI cost. Its headed Optional 
Credit Insurance and it lists the total cost of the PPI (the cash price); the total interest payable; the 
total payable and the monthly payment. It doesnt  split out the monthly interest payable,  but it clearly 
shows the number  of monthly  payments due so this could be calculated. 
Ive thought about whether Mr As circumstances  were such  that he didnt have a strong need for the 
cover - so would better information on the cost and benefit of the policy have changed his mind  about  
buying it? Through a combination of his sick pay and Permanent Health Insurance  it seems Mr A 
would have received full pay for six months and then half pay until retirement, or his return  to work, if 
he was sick. 
Weve asked  Mr A for evidence of the employee  benefits he wouldve been entitled  to when  he took 
out the PPI, but as yet he hasnt provided anything. So I dont know exactly  what  sick pay and / or 
insurance cover he had from his job. But even  if his recollection is right,  this means  without PPI he 
could have been trying  to live on half his salary for a long period of time whilst still needing  to make  
his loan repayments  and pay all his other living expenses.  A successful PPI claim would have 
covered his loan repayments if he was sick, or had an accident, for the life of the loan (36 months). 
Hes told us he had a small  amount of savings  but the PPI would  have allowed  him to use these  for 
other living expenses whilst not working,  or to keep them intact for his future  needs. 
So, overall,  taking into account his circumstances, I think the PPI offered  Mr A valuable  protection and 
I dont currently think hed have made a different decision  with better cost and benefit  information.    
Ref: DRN30785344the other aspects of the sale
Ive looked at all the other aspects of the sale to check that Mr A hasnt  lost out as a result of any 
problems elsewhere. I dont think he has. I say this because:
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr A that the PPI was optional and he had to agree to take 
it out. As Ive said there is no recording available, so I cant  know what was said on the call. 
But Ive looked at the paperwork from the time of the sale to decide what is most  likely to have 
happened. 
On the loan agreement that Mr A was sent after the call, and that he signed and returned,  the 
cost of the PPI is set out separately and under the heading Optional Credit Insurance.  So I 
think its most likely Nationwide made Mr A aware  the PPI was optional  and it was added to 
the account because Mr A chose to take it out.
I think Mr A was eligible for the cover given  its terms and his circumstances.
I dont  think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check it was right 
for him. As noted  earlier, it did however  have to give him enough  clear information so he 
could make  an informed choice. And as Ive said some  cost information was set out on the 
loan agreement, and Mr A doesnt seem  to have been affected by any of the main  exclusions 
or limitations. Overall,  I havent found any evidence  that better information would have 
changed his decision.  
The policy  gave  a pro-rata  refund  if the loan was repaid early, so even if the early cancellation  
terms were not brought  to Mr As attention, it seems  unlikely that this would have affected his 
decision to take out the policy.
It follows I dont currently think Mr A has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not planning to uphold  Mr As complaint.  
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3078534