K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs R bought the policy in February  2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
credit card and PPI were  taken by way of a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think RBS made Mrs R aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Rs credit  card application form 
from the time of sale.
On the form, in a separate section  for the PPI, I can see Mrs R had the option of selecting  
whether or not she wanted the PPI added to her card. Theres  a tick in the box next to the 
statement For Cover just tick the box after reading the key features. So, I think  RBS made it 
clear to Mrs R that the PPI was optional. And I think she agreed to it.
RBS says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs R. Mrs R on the other  hand  cant recall if it was 
recommended to her or not. So Ive thought  about what  both parties have said,  taking  into 
account the available information  from the time of sale.  Having considered this, I havent  
seen anything to suggest that RBS assessed  Mrs Rs circumstances at the time and 
recommended that Mrs R take out the PPI. This means RBS didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs R chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs R has told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer  if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some  
savings and an endowment policy which she could have used to cover  her credit card 
repayments.
Ref: DRN32638302Having thought about what  Mrs R has said about her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means the PPI wasnt useful for her. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs R would have  received  from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than the full pay she would have received. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Mrs R was ever made  redundant  and would have enabled Mrs R to 
use her savings for any other financial commitments  she would have had.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs R has said about her endowment  policy and how she could  
have used the proceeds to cover her credit  card repayments. But the PPI would have meant 
that she didnt  need to surrender her endowment  policy   which  presumably she would have 
wanted to keep for the reasons she originally took it out.
So overall, I think Mrs R could have  found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263830