K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about Aviva Life Services UK Limited (Aviva). He has concerns about the 
figures Aviva has provided regarding  his pension policy.
background
Mr R has a pension policy comprising of two parts- a Final Salary  Defined Benefit Scheme 
Replacement policy  (FS element) and a Group  AVC element with Guaranteed Annuity 
Rates (AVC element). The policy originates  from Mr Rs former Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS).
Aviva sent a retirement  pack  for Mr Rs pension policy. It said the estimated value for the FS 
element of his policy was £42,232.58. Following this Mr R completed and returned the 
appropriate forms so he could take benefits  from the FS element of his policy.
Aviva later issued another retirement  pack.  It said the estimated value of the FS element of 
Mr Rs policy  on this date was £30,004.31.
Aviva received Mr Rs completed  forms to take benefits from the FS element of his policy on 
3 April 2018. 
On 4 April 2018  Aviva issued a retirement  quote  for the AVC element of Mr Rs policy.  It said 
the estimated  value  of this was £22,861.08. On the same day it also wrote to Mr Rs financial 
adviser confirming the estimated value of the FS element  of Mr Rs policy was £30,588.09.
On 11 April 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr Rs financial adviser. It said it had received completed 
forms for Mr R to take benefits from the FS element of his policy  but still not received 
documents for the AVC element. It said the latter was required to proceed  with the 
settlement of Mr Rs policy.
Aviva issued another retirement pack on 14 April 2018. It said the estimated value for the FS 
element of Mr Rs policy was £48,368.21. 
Having received so much  conflicting information about the value of Mr Rs policy,  in 
particular the FS element,  his financial adviser contacted  Aviva  to query the matter. Aviva 
responded and said the £48,368.21 value it had quoted for the FS element of Mr Rs policy 
was unfortunately  incorrect due to a system error.  It said the error had been rectified and 
confirmed the correct value for the FS element of Mr Rs policy  as at 14 April 2018 was 
£30,592.27.
Mr Rs financial  adviser contacted Aviva to query  further the figures it had provided.  
Aviva responded to Mr Rs financial adviser on 2 May 2018. It said the benefits under the FS 
element of Mr Rs policy were secured benefits  advised to Aviva by the trustees of Mr Rs 
former OPS. It confirmed it had no record of how Mr Rs benefits were calculated  originally 
as these benefits were  simply transferred to it. Aviva said it didnt hold any information  on 
contributions paid into Mr Rs OPS in the original scheme.
Mr Rs financial  adviser later raised  a complaint with Aviva  on Mr Rs behalf. It said it was 
difficult for Mr R to trust any of Avivas quotes  as the figures provided had been  different  
each time.  Aviva responded to Mr Rs complaint on 30 May 2018. In summary it said:
Ref: DRN39239942it accepted  that on several occasions the figures  it provided  for the FS element of Mr 
Rs policy had been wrong
it was very sorry for the errors it had made and for the inconvenience caused  so it 
had arranged for a cheque  for £100  to be sent to Mr R
once it received completed forms for the AVC element of Mr Rs benefits it would 
calculate the final values payable from his policy as at the date it received its 
requirements
As Mr R remained unsatisfied  Aviva  was asked by his financial adviser  to review the 
complaint again.  
Aviva responded on 27 June 2018  and in summary said:
while the contents of its initial response  to Mr Rs complaint was correct it agreed  it 
couldve been clearer and shouldve provided  more information about what actually 
went wrong with the valuations  it had sent
the correct valuation for the FS element of Mr Rs policy was just over £30,000 and 
the value on 18 June 2018 was specifically £30,619.38. It confirmed  this value had 
been manually  calculated and checked  by Avivas  actuarial team. It explained the 
calculation for this was the amount of the policy  at Mr Rs retirement  date of 30 
January 2009  (£29,219.12) plus around 0.5%  per annum  since then
because of what had happened it was manually  calculating policy values until its IT 
department had identified and fixed the error
while it noted Mr R had accepted the incorrect value quoted by Aviva this figure  was 
never guaranteed. So it would only pay the correct policy valuation  to Mr R
to say sorry for the trouble  it had caused it offered Mr R £250 compensation in 
addition to the £100 already offered 
Unhappy with Avivas  response Mr Rs financial adviser referred  Mr Rs complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the matter and said while she agreed Aviva  had 
made errors she didnt  think it was fair to expect it to pay Mr R pension  benefits it had quoted  
which were based  on incorrect information.  She also thought  the compensation Aviva had 
offered for the errors it had made  was fair.
Mr Rs financial  adviser said Avivas figures still couldnt be trusted. It said Mr R had signed 
and accepted the £42,322.58 Aviva  quoted to him in good faith and Aviva hadnt provided 
any evidence or sufficient explanation to support the new figure it had quoted.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct Aviva to do anything further.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise that 
while Ive taken note of the correspondence, extensive arguments and comments  made by 
both parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues central to this 
complaint.  
There isnt any dispute about the fact that Aviva has incorrectly quoted the retirement 
benefits available under Mr Rs policy on several occasions. And Mr R is understandably 
Ref: DRN39239943very concerned and disappointed since this has come to light.  Especially  as hed chosen to 
take retirement benefits on the basis of the figures  Aviva had provided.
Specifically several of the quotations Aviva provided to Mr R and his financial adviser 
suggested the value of the FS element of Mr Rs policy was around  £10,000  more  than it 
actually was. In essence  Aviva  led Mr R to believe  he had a higher level of retirement  
provision in place  than he actually did. 
The issue  I have to decide is whether the action Aviva has taken satisfactorily resolves  the 
matter and sufficiently  compensates  Mr R for the trouble  and upset caused by what  
happened. 
In a situation like this, we aim to put consumers back in the position they would have  been  
in, had the correct  information been given, rather than a business being bound  by the 
incorrect information it did give. So for Mr R, the correct information  is that hes entitled to 
the revised value  Aviva  has most  recently calculated and provided  him with, not the 
overstated values  he was previously given. Because of this I cant  say Aviva must  honour 
the misleading valuations it provided  for the FS element of Mr Rs policy.  These were based 
on incorrect information. So while I accept Mr R completed and submitted the appropriate 
forms to Aviva in good faith so he could take benefits at the level Aviva  led him to believe he 
could, Im unable to conclude that it would be reasonable to require Aviva  to now pay Mr R 
retirement benefits based on incorrect  information  it quoted.                                                                                                                  
Aviva has apologised  several times for the mistakes it has made. And confirmed the 
incorrect valuations for Mr Rs policy  happened  as a result of a system  issue. Naturally, in an 
effort to understand  things  better and gain reassurance  that Mr R would ultimately receive  
the correct amount under his policy, Mr R with the help of his financial adviser  has asked 
Aviva, on a number of occasions, questions. Especially regarding  how Aviva  has established 
that the revised lower value it is now quoting for the FS element of Mr Rs policy is correct. I 
dont propose to repeat the explanations Mr R and his financial adviser have already been 
given. But Im particularly  mindful that Avivas call with Mr Rs financial adviser to discuss  the 
matter on 25 June  2018 covered the manner in which Aviva had calculated  and reached the 
lower revised value for the FS element of Mr Rs policy  as well as how the original  errors  had 
occurred.
I think the telephone call coupled with Avivas  letter on 28 June 2018 which followed this 
provided sufficient explanations  for what happened  and how things had been  rectified.  
I understand Mr Rs financial adviser  remains unhappy with Avivas explanations.  However  
based on what Ive seen Im satisfied  Aviva has provided all it can in the circumstances. Im 
aware Mr Rs financial  adviser would like Aviva to provide further details about factors  it has 
used and what exactly it keys into its system  to establish what  Mr R is entitled to. But I wont  
be asking Aviva to provide any more than it already has in this respect. As has already been 
explained the actual criteria used by Aviva  is commercially  sensitive  and as such it isnt 
routinely subject to disclosure to this service. 
Turning now to the impact  of Avivas errors. Its clear to me trouble and upset  has 
undoubtedly been caused to Mr R. For what has happened Aviva has offered Mr R 
compensation totalling £350. I think this level of award is fair and reasonable and in line with 
what Id expect to see in the circumstances-  especially considering  the loss of expectation  
Mr R suffered and the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused. Not only when 
Ref: DRN39239944erroneous valuations were provided  but when (as Aviva  has accepted)  its first response  to 
queries raised  about what had happened was inadequate.   
I have real sympathy for Mr R and can appreciate how upsetting it will have been when 
Avivas mistake came to light. Its clear  to me that having correct information about  the value 
of his policy is of great importance to Mr R and understandably so as it directly impacts the 
financial decisions he makes about his retirement.  Avivas continued  mistakes  have naturally 
undermined Mr Rs confidence in the service  it provides and his faith in the information it 
gives him. But Aviva doesnt dispute the fact that it has got things wrong. It has apologised 
and offered compensation for what has happened. 
While Im not directing  Aviva to make the award  I understand Mr R would like, in that I dont 
think Aviva  should be bound to pay him retirement benefits based on the incorrect 
information it quoted or that it should offer further  compensation,  I should  say that I do think  
its entirely reasonable for him to expect Aviva  to provide correct information.  And its 
unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen.  I am genuinely  sorry to hear of the impact  
that this has had on Mr R. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Rs sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing  his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Aviva to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr R to choose whether or 
not he accepts  Aviva Life Services UK Limiteds  offer of £350  compensation for trouble and 
upset caused  as a result of what has happened.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3923994