K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mrs G lives with her husband  and two school-age children, one of whom  has diabetes  and 
chronic fatigue syndrome.
Mrs G had a British Gas HomeCare policy. Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the 
insurance company  of that name and I include engineers and others  for whose actions I hold 
that company  responsible.
During a visit to fit a new gas meter,  a meter engineer suspected  a gas leak. On Thursday 
17 January 2019  British  Gas confirmed a gas leak and capped off the supply. This left Mrs G 
and her family  during  a period of cold weather  - with no gas for heating,  hot water or 
cooking.
Mrs G complained that British Gas  with poor communication and delays  was mishandling 
the restoration of the gas supply. British Gas restored the gas supply on Thursday 24 
January. In late January or early February, Mrs G sent British Gas a letter  of complaint and a 
chronology. She complained that British Gas should  pay her £1,585.74  for hotels, food, 
travel, time off work and compensation. Her letter enclosed copies of hotel  bills and a 
payment card slip. 
In a final response letter, British Gas said it was sending a cheque  for £330.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think  that 
British Gas met its obligations  under  the policy by carrying out repairs  in a reasonable time 
frame. As a result of this, he thought British Gas should consider the costs Mrs G had 
incurred as a result of the repairs taking longer than they should have. 
Food costs  would be higher, due to not being at home. So British  Gas should pay Mrs G 
£10.00 per day per person, a total of £200.00 over the five days she was not at home. For 
the inconvenience of having  to find alternate accommodation and to cover the extra travel 
expenses, the compensation  (of £330.00) should  be increased to £600.00. The investigator 
recommended that British  Gas should:
1.reimburse hotel costs (upon provision of receipts) and
2.pay £200.00 for additional  food costs and
3.pay £600.00 total compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs G 
and to British  Gas on 16 August 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Ref: DRN39081872Id identified times when  British Gas didnt give satisfactory service or meet Mrs Gs 
expectations. But, for me, the crucial  point was whether British Gas did the repair 
within a reasonable time.  I keep in mind  - as well as the needs of Mrs G and her 
family - the nature and extent of the repair.
British Gas got a grip on the problem on 22 January and resolved it on 24 January.  
And I thought that shows that British  Gas could and should have got a grip on the 
problem on Friday 18 January and resolved it on Monday 21 January.  So I was 
minded that British Gas took about  three days  longer than a reasonable time to do 
the repair.
Therefore I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to 
reimburse Mrs G for the hotel accommodation for the three nights  of 21, 22 and 23 
January. The invoices show that these  costs were a total of £530.00. As shed been 
out of pocket since that time, I also intended  to direct British  Gas to add interest at 
our usual rate.
By the shortcomings  Id identified in its service,  British Gas caused  Mrs G distress  
and inconvenience  including  concern for her family.  I didnt think £330.00 was 
enough to compensate for this. I was minded to find £450.00 fair and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mrs G or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs G:
1.£530.00 in reimbursement of hotel accommodation; and
2.simple interest on £530.00  at a yearly rate of 8% from 23 January 2019 to the date of 
reimbursement. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3.(in addition to its payment of £330.00) £120.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs G agrees with the provisional decision.
British Gas disagrees. It says that it isnt in a position to provide any more  information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled  to within  a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit
Ref: DRN39081873So (unless prevented  by something beyond its control)  British  Gas had to do repairs within a 
reasonable time. I think that means a reasonable time taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances including  the needs  of the policyholders family and the nature of the repair.
British Gas has pointed  out that the policy only covered alternative accommodation and 
travel costs (limited  to up to £500.00 ) in the unlikely  event of the boiler  catching  fire or 
exploding, making the home unfit to live in. 
The policy terms also included the following:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of property, furniture  
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking  or failing unless we 
caused it. For example  damage caused by water leaks.
But I find it fair and reasonable in principle to direct British Gas to pay compensation for 
financial loss or for distress and inconvenience  caused by any failure to do a repair within  a 
reasonable time.
The engineer who capped the supply  on 17 January  identified a leak under the hallway floor.  
He said that a re-running of the gas pipework  would be required.
I accept Mrs Gs statement that he said that new piping would be run outside  the house  from 
the gas meter, up the front of the house to underneath a bedroom window, around the side 
of the house, across  the back and into the kitchen to connect  with the boiler  there. This 
would require special  equipment and engineers  qualified to work at height. It would take at 
least 8 hours  to complete.
The engineer made  an appointment for someone else to visit the next day. I accept Mrs Gs 
statement that the engineer led her to expect  that the problem would  be fixed on 18 January.
I think that there was poor communication within British Gas and with Mrs G. So when the 
engineer visited  on the afternoon of Friday  18 January, he wasnt expecting  or equipped for 
a re-run job that he identified as an all-day  job. From what Mrs G has said, the engineer  was 
unable to hide his frustration. 
I dont think British Gas gave satisfactory  service or met Mrs Gs expectations. Mrs G and 
her family remained at home without gas.
On Saturday 19 January  Mrs G and her family went to a hotel for breakfast. I accept  Mrs Gs 
statement that British  Gas led her to expect that the problem would be fixed  on Monday  21 
January. Mrs G and her family stayed at the hotel overnight on Saturday and Sunday nights.
On Monday 21 January, Mrs G was expecting an engineer to visit. Despite making 
telephone calls to check that an engineer was on the way, no engineer  visited. And that 
evening Mrs G and her husband had frustrating telephone conversations  with British Gas.  
On Tuesday 22 January, at around  8.00am British Gas telephoned  Mrs G. I accept her 
statement that it didnt  say when it would fix the problem. Later that day she and an advice 
worker contacted British  Gas again. So again on 21 and 22 January I dont think British  Gas 
gave satisfactory service or met Mrs Gs expectations.
Ref: DRN39081874Mrs G couldnt get further accommodation at the first hotel. So she booked into a sister hotel 
a few miles away. The credit card slip shows expenditure of about  £86.00  and I accept that 
was for an evening meal.
I accept Mrs Gs statement that on 23 January, British Gas told her that engineers  from the 
correct department had been booked for seven hours on 24 January. So  after another  
night in the second hotel   the engineers re-ran  the gas supply on 24 January.
Ive identified times when  British Gas didnt give satisfactory service or meet Mrs Gs 
expectations. But, for me, the crucial  point is whether British Gas did the repair  within a 
reasonable time. I keep in mind - as well as the needs of Mrs G and her family - the nature 
and extent of the repair.
I find that (although  it still didnt communicate well with Mrs G) British Gas got a grip on the 
problem on 22 January and resolved it on 24 January. And I think that shows that British  
Gas could and should have got a grip on the problem on Friday  18 January and resolved it 
on Monday 21 January.  So I find that British Gas took about  three  days  longer than a 
reasonable time to do the repair.
Therefore I find it fair and reasonable  to direct British Gas to reimburse Mrs G for the hotel 
accommodation for the three nights of 21, 22 and 23 January. The invoices show that these 
costs were a total of £530.00. As shes been out of pocket since  that time, I will also direct 
British Gas to add interest at our usual rate.
As the family  would have incurred food costs anyway, I dont find it fair to direct British  Gas 
to reimburse the cost of the meal  on 22 January  or any other  food costs.  And Mrs G hasnt 
provided enough details to show a loss of earnings or of travel expenses.
But I dont doubt  that  by the shortcomings Ive identified in its service  British Gas caused 
Mrs G distress and inconvenience including concern for her family. I dont think  £330.00 was 
enough to compensate for this. Im minded to find £450.00 fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN39081875my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct  British  Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs G:
1.£530.00 in reimbursement of hotel accommodation; and
2.simple interest on £530.00  at a yearly rate of 8% from 
23 January 2019 to the date of reimbursement.  If British Gas 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Mrs G how 
much its taken  off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate;  and
3.(in addition to its payment of £330.00) £120.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3908187