K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc hasnt properly compensated them for the 
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out several  loans  with RBS. Only one of the loans, taken out in 
September 2005 was taken out with PPI.
The loan was for £25,000 and the premium for the PPI was £2,297.50  which  was added  to 
the main loan and wouldve attracted interest.  So Mr and Mrs O borrowed a total of 
£27,297.50. The PPI added £46.25 to the monthly  loan repayment. The loan was intended 
to be repaid over 60 months. 
Mr and Mrs O repaid  the loan in June 2006  when they refinanced it into a new loan.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs O asked RBS whether any of their loans had PPI attached.                   
In December 2017 RBS wrote  to them with a table of all their loan accounts and said that 
only the loan taken in September 2005 was sold with PPI.
Mr and Mrs O complained  about the sale of the PPI. In February 2018 RBS wrote  to Mr and 
Mrs O and offered them £736.30 compensation for the mis-sale of the PPI with the loan 
taken in September 2005.
RBS also offered Mr and Mrs O a further £71.84  and £17.41  because  the two loans they 
took after the 2005 loan were slightly higher due to some of the PPI premium  carrying over 
into these later loans.
Mr and Mrs O requested  clarification of the offers because  they believed  they had been  sold 
a PPI with a premium  of £2,297.50 and didnt think RBS offers fully compensated them.
In July 2018 RBS replied  to Mr and Mrs O. RBS explained that when Mr and Mrs O 
refinanced the 2005 loan in June 2006, the PPI policy had been cancelled and a rebate  of 
£1,952.75 had been applied to the loan before  it was refinanced by the new loan.
Mr and Mrs O remained  unhappy with RBS  explanation and wrote again asking for further 
clarification. RBS responded in August 2018 with a further explanation. 
Mr and Mrs O then asked this service  to step in.
Our adjudicator thought RBS had acted fairly. Mr and Mrs O disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
In the meantime, RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs O in October 2018 offering  an additional £75.00 
as compensation  for the way itd handled their complaint and in particular for the delays in 
responding to their requests for clarification of the offers.
Ref: DRN32057332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id expect the business to put the consumer in the 
position theyd  be in if the PPI hadnt  been  sold. In this case I think  RBS has done this and 
has made a fair offer. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs O borrowed  extra  to pay for the PPI in September  2005, so their loan was bigger 
than it shouldve been. They paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them 
more to repay the loan than it would have  without PPI. And part of the PPI premium was 
carried forward to two subsequent loans, meaning they paid slightly  extra each month  for 
those loans too. So Mr and Mrs O need  to get back the extra  they paid.
So, RBS should:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs O the difference between what  they paid each month on 
the 2005 loan and what  they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs O the difference between what  it cost to pay off the 2005 
loan and what  it would have cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Calculate  how much of the balance that was carried forward to the 2006 loan related to the 
cost of the PPI policy taken out for the 2005  loan; and
Repay to Mr and Mrs O all amounts paid under each subsequent loan in respect of the 
carried forward balance, including interest and charges.
Add simple interest to the extra  amounts Mr and Mrs O paid from when they paid it until 
they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year (paid  net of income tax).
Looking  at the calculations  provided  by RBS I can see that its carried  out the above  calculations.
It seems  to me the confusion  has arisen  because  the PPI premium  added  to the 2005  loan 
was £2,297.50. Yet when  RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs O in February 2018 with its offer, it said 
it had refunded PPI premiums and associated interest of only £416.29. It didnt explain in the 
letter that a PPI premium  refund of £1,952.75 had been deducted from the balance of the 
loan when Mr and Mrs O repaid it in June 2006.  The £416.29 represented the actual 
overpayments Mr and Mrs O had made because of the PPI. And it is these overpayments 
that Id expect RBS to refund to Mrs and Mrs O.
So I think RBS has refunded Mr and Mrs O everything extra  they paid due to the PPI being  
added to the 2005 sale. And its also added compensatory interest at 8% simple for the time 
theyve been out of pocket. Thats what Id expect RBS to do and I think thats fair.
Mr and Mrs O have said that they couldve used the extra they paid for the PPI to reduce  
their credit card balance. And that therefore they should receive interest  on the 
overpayments of 1.241% per month from June 2006.
Ref: DRN32057333Ive thought about this but the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out rules  and guidance  
around how businesses  should compensate consumers who have been  mis-sold PPI, and I 
have to take these  rules  into account when deciding if a businesss offer is fair. The FCA has set 
out that compensatory interest should be paid at the rate of 8% simple per annum.
In any event, for me to make a different award Id have to be persuaded that it is likely        
Mr and Mrs O wouldve  used the amounts they paid towards the PPI to instead reduce their 
credit card balance. Not just that they could  have. 
But I see that the loan Mr and Mrs O took out in June 2006  was for £70,000, so it looks like 
Mr and Mrs O were in fact increasing  their borrowing in June 2006 rather than looking to 
decrease it. If Mr and Mrs O hadnt  been sold the PPI in 2005 it meant their loan repayments 
wouldve been around £46.25 lower. I dont know how they wouldve used the extra  £46.25 
per month, but Ive not seen  anything to persuade me its most likely  theyd have  used it to 
reduce their credit card balance. As it is RBS has paid compensatory  interest of 8% simple  
on the extra they paid. And I think this is a fair amount to compensate them  for not having 
the use of the extra  they paid for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs O have also said that RBS hasnt compensated them for the interest that was 
added to the loan because of the PPI between  September 2005 and June 2006. But I think  it 
has. RBS refunded the overpayments made by Mr and Mrs O which included interest 
charged on the PPI. When  the loan was cleared, and the rebate applied  there  was no further 
interest carried over into the next loan, only part of the premium, which  RBS has 
compensated Mr and Mrs O for. 
Finally Ive thought  about whether I should make an additional award  for the way RBS 
handled Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
I can see RBS responded  quite  quickly  in December 2017 to Mr and Mrs Os enquiry about 
PPI on their accounts. And after they complained about the PPI policy RBS responded with 
an offer in February  2018 which I think was calculated correctly  and was fair. 
I can see there was some  delay in replying to Mr and Mrs Os request for a further  
breakdown and explanation of the offer which Mr and Mrs O didnt receive until August 2018 
after which they referred the complaint  to this service.
Inevitably when  making a complaint it involves  some degree of inconvenience and I wouldnt 
usually make an award simply because something has gone wrong. And as Ive explained in 
this decision, I think  RBS offer puts Mr and Mrs O in the position theyd be in if the PPI sale 
hadnt happened and compensates them fairly  for the time theyve been out of pocket.
I do think RBS shouldve  responded to Mr and Mrs Os questions  about the calculation more 
quickly than it did. But I see RBS has offered Mr and Mrs O £75 for the delay in giving them 
this information.  Once the complaint was passed to this service I can see RBS provided  the 
information we needed to determine that the offer had been calculated  correctly.
Taking all this into account I think the offer of £75 for the delays in responding to                 
Mr and Mrs Os requests  is fair.
In summary  I think RBS offer is fair and puts Mr and Mrs O in the position theyd be in if the 
PPI had not been sold. And I think the offer has been calculated in line with our guidance 
and in the way Id expect  it to have been calculated.
Ref: DRN32057334I think the offer of £75 for the delays in responding to Mr and Mrs O requests for further 
information is also fair. 
My understanding is that RBS has already paid Mr and Mrs O the compensation it offered for 
the mis-sold PPI, but has not yet paid them the additional £75.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plcs offer of compensation for the 
mis-sold PPI is fair.
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has agreed  to pay £75 compensation for delays in 
responding to Mr and Mrs Os requests for clarification  of its offer.  I think  this is fair and it 
should now make  payment to Mr and Mrs O.
I make  no further award against The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3205733