K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited wont  accept his bike insurance 
claim.
background
While Mr T was away from home for nine days  his bike was stolen from the backyard of 
were he lived. The bike was locked  to another bike belonging to someone  else at the 
property (who was also away), which was also stolen. 
Mr T reported the theft to the police and claimed on his insurance. Mr T says the thief could 
only have accessed  the bike by climbing over the high wall between  his garden and the 
cemetery. The wall is three to three and a half metres high on the house  side and about two 
metres on the cemetery  side.
Hiscox declined the claim. It said the theft of the bike wasnt as a result  of violent or forcible 
entry and the bike wasnt secured to an immovable object, as the policy required.
Mr T complained to us. He detailed where  and how the bike had been stored and provided 
photos of the wall the thief used to access  the backyard. He said Hiscox  had failed to 
properly consider the circumstances  of the theft.  He thinks  his bike was stolen  by violent and 
forcible entry. He wants Hiscox to pay his claim and refund  the £350 he paid for renting a 
bike for seven weeks, while he waited for his new bike to be delivered.
Our adjudicator thought Hiscox had fairly declined the claim. He said even if he thought the 
thief had stolen the bike by violent and forcible  entry Mr Hs bike wasnt  secured to an 
immovable object, as defined and required by the policy.
Mr T disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In brief,  his point is that the policy 
wording means that the requirements  to have cover for his bike at home are standalone. So 
if we did accept his bike had been stolen  by violent and forcible entry  the fact that his bike 
wasnt locked to an immovable object doesnt  matter.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
The policy covers theft of a bike from Mr Ts home  or away  from home. The policy has 
different requirements  for cover depending  on which scenario.
The policy definition of home includes:
a secure gated  car park within the boundaries of your private  dwelling  which  is privately 
accessed by residents  and their guests only.
Hiscox accepted that Mr Ts walled backyard in his terraced  property  was equivalent to a 
secure gated car park, which  is reasonable.
The policy also lists What is not covered:
We will not make any payment for:
Ref: DRN326162321. theft from your home  unless:
(a to c), or (my emphasis)
d. the cycle is contained within a lockable shed or secure gated car park within  the 
boundaries of your private dwelling which is privately accessed by residents and their guests  
only and the normal  security protections are fully operative and in force  and the theft is a 
direct result of violent and forcible  entry to or exit from the shed or car park by the thieves; or 
(my emphasis)
(e to f), or (my emphasis)
g. the cycle is secured through the frame by an approved lock to an immovable object.
Hiscoxs response to Mr Ts complaint  was on the basis that he failed to meet  both (d) and 
(g) of those requirements. Our adjudicator  thought  that even  if the theft satisfied (d) Mr T 
couldnt show (g). But I think the use of or for each requirement means  Mr T can reasonably 
understand that the requirements  are standalone. The wording reads  that Hiscox will pay for 
theft from Mr Ts home  if he meets (a) or (b) and so on. He doesnt  have to meet 
requirements (d) and (g) to be covered.
Mr Ts bike wasnt locked to an immoveable  object  as defined by the policy and I dont think 
he disputes that. None of the other requirements  for cover apply.
So the issue  I need to decide  is whether  the theft was a direct result  of violent and forcible  
entry to or exit from the backyard.
Ive seen all the information and photos  Mr Ts sent and his detailed points why he thinks  
there was violent and forcible entry. The policy doesnt define  violent and forcible  entry but 
the terms have been  considered by the courts. The leading case held that forcible and 
violent meant:
entry by the use of any force which was accentuated  or accompanied by a physical act 
which could properly be described as violent in nature or character. It referred to the physical 
character of the means of entry and not merely  to its unlawful character.
The evidence is that its very likely the thief jumped over the back  wall (which  isnt 
particularly high on the cemetery side) and somehow took the bike over the wall.
I think the thief going over the wall was a forcible entry  so I need to consider  whether it 
should reasonably be considered as violent. Jumping  over the wall wasnt the usual method 
for gaining  entry to the backyard or taking the bike from the backyard. Theres no evidence  
of any physical damage to the wall due to the entry  or exit but there doesnt have to be. 
Violence in this context  is essentially a more  extreme form of force.  Its not known how the 
thief got the bike over the wall which is three to three and a half metres high on the house 
side. But it must have taken considerable effort to get the bike over particularly if it was still 
locked to the other bike. In these circumstances I think its reasonable to consider that there 
was violent and forcible entry or exit.
Hiscox must  pay Mr Ts theft claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, plus 
interest as Ive detailed  below.
Mr Ts also mentioned that he wants to be refunded  the payments he made for renting a bike 
while he was waiting  for his new one. I cant see that Mr T has already claimed for the cost 
or that Hiscox has assessed it. But Mr Ts policy does give cover for alternative bike hire up 
Ref: DRN32616233to £500, subject to conditions.  Hiscox needs  to fairly and reasonably assess his claim for 
alternative bike hire in line with the policy terms.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T had no further comments.
Hiscox disagreed with my provisional findings.  It didnt accept the thief jumping over the wall 
was a violent entry or exit. It had found a decision  by one of my ombudsman colleagues, an 
old newsletter on our website and had also spoken to our helpdesk. Hiscox said all those 
said there would usually be some sign of damage or violence for a violent entry.  Hiscox 
accepted that our past decisions dont set precedents. But it thought  it could fairly  say there 
was no violent entry or exit and decline the claim.  It added that as the wall was two meters 
high on one side the thief wouldnt  have  had difficulty scaling the wall. It also said the bike 
must be locked to an immovable object which Mr T hadnt done.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Hiscoxs  comments  which Ive summarised above,  but they dont change my 
mind. I uphold  the complaint.
As Hiscox  knows,  our decisions aren't precedents and we decide each case on its own 
circumstances. Im satisfied the thief made  a violent and forcible entry  or exit to steal  Mr Ts 
bike.
Violent entry  or exit can be evidenced by some  form of damage being  present but, as 
I explained above, there doesnt have to be evidence of damage.  The courts  have decided 
that violent in this context  can be the use of a method that wouldnt normally be used to gain 
entry. For example, using a skeleton key wouldnt be violent, but using a lock pick would. Its 
essentially a more extreme  form of force.
Climbing over the wall wasnt the usual method for gaining entry  to the backyard  or taking 
the bike from the backyard. I dont think the two metres high side of the wall would  have 
been very difficult for the thief to scale. But on the other side the thief had to get the bike up 
and over a three to three  and a half metres high wall. The theft wasnt by an easy lift of the 
bike over a wall. Getting  the bike (or bikes if Mr Ts bike was still locked to the other bike) 
took considerable effort, more extreme force than lifting a bike would usually require.
Its likely  that in the effort to get the bike/s over the wall the bricks would have been 
scratched or knocked. If so there would be the damage Hiscox wants to satisfy the violent 
exit. But there is no evidence of physical damage and I dont need to have that evidence in 
the circumstances of this case. Whether the wall was scratched or not cant  reasonably  be 
the deciding factor in whether the violent and forcible criteria  is met. The method and effort 
of getting the bike/s up and over the three to three and half meters  wall was still the same, 
an extreme form of force was used.  There was violent and forcible entry  or exit as the policy  
requires.
I explained in my provisional findings  that the use of or in the policy  wording for each 
requirement means Mr T can reasonably understand  the requirements for cover are 
Ref: DRN32616234standalone. The wording reads  that Hiscox will pay for theft of a bike from Mr Ts home if he 
meets the violent  and forcible theft requirement  detailed at paragraph  (d) above.  Due to the 
use of or the policy doesnt  say he also had to have the bike locked to an immoveable 
object.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I uphold this 
complaint. Hiscox must pay Mr Ts theft claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
limits, plus interest as Ive detailed  below. It must also fairly and reasonably  assess  his claim 
for alternative bike hire in line with the policy terms.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited  to:
pay Mr T claims for his stolen bike subject to the remaining policy  terms and limits. 
Interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement, and
assess Mr Ts claim for alternative  bike hire subject to the remaining policy terms and 
limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Hiscox  Insurance  Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3261623