K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  about National Westminster Bank Plcs (NatWest) handling of their 
safety deposit box which they say led to valuable items being lost.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 22 February 2019- a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
NatWest didnt want to provide  any further  information for me to consider  and said it 
accepted the provisional decision. But Mr and Mrs Z didnt agree and  in summary, Mrs Z 
made the following points in reply:
Shed  previously accessed her safety  deposit  box just by showing her passport. And 
a member of her family had previously been  given  a box of hers at a NatWest 
branch. She questioned the level of NatWests security arrangements if these 
incidents had been allowed to happen.
She didnt agree  that the branch hadnt  undergone any refurbishment as she said it 
had become open plan to enable customers to deposit money to the cashiers.
She had previously complained that the branch didnt  have  a lockable room. She said 
shed provided  pictures to show that people could see into the room and this caused 
her concerns. She said NatWest had been incorrect in stating the room had an 
obscured window.
She was disappointed NatWest hadnt provided detailed  records  of who had 
previously accessed the box and when.
She was aware  that her safety  deposit box had been  left on show when staff were 
too busy to put it back straight  away. And shed  been questioned by staff about what  
was inside the box. She wanted  us to advise NatWest that these actions were  
inappropriate.
She still believed  the box had been  tampered with as advised by the police. She said 
we should have looked at the damage to the box for ourselves.  
She wanted us to raise questions about  NatWests security procedures  around 
accessing the boxes. Especially as the branch didnt have any CCTV. 
She felt wed taken NatWests word  about  the events and hadnt fully taken  her 
statements into account. She was also disappointed we hadnt made any 
recommendations to NatWest to ensure this kind of thing  couldnt  happen  again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But having  very carefully considered  
Mrs Zs further  submissions I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision.
Mrs Z has made  a number of points  about  the security arrangements within the NatWest  
branch  and about its general procedures  when allowing access to safety deposit boxes. I 
Ref: DRN39494612can understand Mrs Zs frustration here as she believes its this lack of security measures 
which have ultimately  led to her losing  items  from the box. 
But as Ive said previously  theres  no evidence to show that NatWest did anything it shouldnt  
have done over the handling of the deposit  box. I dont think, on balance,  that the issue of 
the security around  the room she used to access her box, the lack of CCTV in the branch or 
the other issues shes highlighted had anything  to do with the box being tampered  with. 
The issue  for me to decide here is if Mrs Z has suffered a loss which  has been as a result of 
NatWests actions. But theres no evidence for me to safely say that NatWest has made  
errors which were clearly responsible for any damage to or loss from the box. 
Mrs Z has highlighted a number of areas in which she would like us to make  
recommendations to NatWest about its security measures. And I know  shes  disappointed I 
havent done that. But our role isnt to tell a business how it should operate  or what  
procedures it should adopt, thats  a matter for NatWest to consider. 
Mrs Z says that we should make these recommendations to ensure this kind of incident 
doesnt happen again. But Im only considering  Mr and Mrs Zs individual complaint here  
not the wider implications,  and Ive decided that theres no evidence  to show NatWest made 
an error which resulted  in the loss of items  from Mr and Mrs Zs safety deposit box. 
Mrs Z has also questioned why we havent  examined the box to confirm  the damage that 
she said was caused. But even if I were to inspect  the box it still wouldnt help to determine 
how the loss occurred and whether that was due to an error  from NatWest. 
I realise Mr and Mrs Z will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, 
in trying to resolve  their dispute  with NatWest informally,  can do for them.  Im sorry we cant 
help Mr and Mrs Z further.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Zs complaint against National Westminster  Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.  
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN39494613ombudsman
Ref: DRN39494614copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  about National  Westminster Bank Plcs (NatWest) handling  of their safety 
deposit box which they say led to valuable items being lost.
background
Mr and Mrs Z took out a safety deposit box agreement with a specific branch  of NatWest in 2007.  In 
May 2018 they went to collect the box and its contents as they had been told the branch  was closing 
in June 2018.  When Mrs Z got home she realised some items were  missing from the box. Mrs Z 
reported the matter to the police, who she said suggested  the box had been tampered with. 
Mrs Z complained to NatWest. She said there were marks near the lock on the box and therefore she 
believed it had been tampered with. She was also unhappy  with the security arrangements in the 
branch when  she went  to collect her valuables. NatWest didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. Mrs Z then said NatWest hadnt  fully investigated her complaint 
especially as it hadnt reviewed any CCTV footage of her collecting the box from a room in the 
branch. Unhappy  with the outcome she referred her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and felt that NatWest had acted appropriately so 
she didnt think it had caused  the items  to be lost. But Mrs Z didnt agree. She made  the following  
points:
She couldnt check the contents  of the box at the time she collected it, as it was possible for 
people going past the branch to see into the room she was in. Also,  the room didnt  have any 
locks.
She wanted details of all the dates  that she had accessed the box in that particular branch.
She was aware of building works that had been carried out in branch which she understood 
meant the box had been moved to a different location.  She wanted to see records of where  
the boxes had been  stored and what access the builders had.
The police had been unable to review  the CCTV footage but she wanted it reviewed.
She was told the box had been tampered  with and as her jewellery had gone missing while in 
NatWests possession  she felt it was responsible.
Mrs Z has also made an insurance claim for the separate of pieces of jewellery.  She says the 
insurance company want to know the outcome of her complaint with us before it looks further into her 
claim, so shes asked  us to issue a decision.   
Subsequently Mrs Z has also told us about a friend of hers who lost money  from their account held at 
the same branch. She said this was indicative  of the problems at the branch and thought  it put the 
staffs trustworthiness in doubt. Especially as she said NatWest said it hadnt had reports of any 
similar problems. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I can understand how upset  Mr and Mrs Z are about  whats 
happened and I recognise that some of the missing items were of significant  sentimental value  which 
cant be replaced. But I dont  think NatWest  has done  anything  wrong here - which I know will come 
as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs Z - so Ill explain my reasoning.
Ive seen a copy of an agreement  which was made in 2007, for a safety deposit box in
Mr and Mrs Zs joint names. And Ive seen that Mrs Z signed  for receipt  of that box when she 
collected it in May 2018. 
Ref: DRN39494615So, Im satisfied that NatWest held the box over that period of time for Mr and Mrs Zs safe keeping.  
Ive also seen  evidence that Mr and Mrs Z were able to access their box over that period. 
NatWest has confirmed that Mr and Mrs Zs box was stored in a safe under a dual combination  
process. This meant that two members of staff  each knowing  part of the safes combination  were 
needed before a box could  be accessed. Its also confirmed that the safety deposit box was locked  
with keys and Mr and Mrs Z had the only sets of keys for their box. NatWest has added  that  if they 
wanted to access their box Mr and Mrs Z would have been  identified either through  a receipt  and the 
key, or through  chip and pin verification. So I think  on balance  that with all these checks  and 
processes in place it would have been very difficult for any member of staff,  on their own, to have 
tampered with the box. 
Mrs Z has also suggested  that the box could  have been tampered with by workmen  who she says 
were doing  some refurbishment work at the branch. Shes suggested  the boxes were moved  from the 
safe and stored elsewhere during the work. But NatWest has said there wasnt any refurbishment 
work carried out at the branch  especially as it was due to be closed, and theres  no record of the 
safes being  moved from their location. So if the box was tampered with, on balance, I dont think it 
was as a result of an error on NatWests part. 
Mrs Z hasnt disputed NatWest followed its usual process every  time she accessed  the box  in that 
respect shes only complained about  the security of the room that was used for her to access the box. 
Shes also asked us to review any available  CCTV footage  within the room.  But NatWest  has 
confirmed the room  Mrs Z went into didnt  have  CCTV, so I cant safely say there were any issues 
with Mrs Z being able to access her box and remove its contents from the room on that day. 
And while Mrs Z might have had reservations about the room that was used I dont think  on 
balance, this had anything to do with Mrs Zs box being tampered with and some of her jewellery 
being missing.  So I cant safely say NatWest did something it shouldnt have done in relation  to its 
handling of the deposit  box. Theres no evidence to suggest that any NatWest staff were able to 
access the box and theres no dispute that it was Mrs Z that came and removed the box and its 
contents with her key.
Mrs Z has said the police said the box had been tampered with  and she provided some photos to 
confirm the damage   although this wasnt reported by Mrs Z when she collected her box. Shes also 
made reference to the box feeling light when  she retrieved it. 
But I dont think she needed to empty the box to have  raised concerns about  items possibly being 
missing, despite her reservations about the room she was put in. In the circumstances I would have 
expected her to raise these issues straight away but I cant see thats what happened. 
Ive also borne in mind  that NatWest says it hasnt  had any other complaints about  safety deposit 
boxes being damaged  or items missing from them when they were removed by other customers 
following the branch being closed  down.  If there had been a general problem  with security in the 
branch or if unauthorised  people had been able to access the boxes I would  have expected there to 
have been further incidents of loss and damage.
Mrs Z has made reference  to what she says is a similar  incident that occurred to a friend  of hers 
about a year ago  which  she says demonstrates that the branch  did have problems with items and 
money going missing.  If Mrs Zs friend has suffered a similar experience she should raise a complaint 
initially with NatWest  to try and resolve  the matter. But in any case we consider each complaint on its 
own merits - which is what Ive done here  by carefully  considering the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Zs complaint.  
I need to establish whether  NatWest has made a mistake which might have caused the loss from 
Mr and Mrs Zs safety deposit box. In the circumstances of this complaint, I cant safely say it has and 
overall  on balance  Im not persuaded NatWest has done anything  wrong here.
Ref: DRN39494616my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Zs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank  Plc.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.  
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3949461