K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) carried  out an 
inspection two weeks after he had returned  the car he had leased under a hire agreement. 
He doesnt accept the charges that have been applied  to his account.  
Background
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with VWFS in 2015. At the end of the agreement, the 
car was returned and an inspection was carried out. Mr W received an invoice for damages 
to the car. The total charges were initially set at over £1,000  but these were reduced to 
£459.24.
Mr W says that the inspection didnt take place while the car was still in his possession even 
though he had asked for the company to do this before the return date. Instead  the 
inspection took place two weeks later and he wasnt given the opportunity  to see the 
damage referred to or to ask about  what had happened to the car since he had returned  it. 
He says he wasnt present at the inspection and had he been able to verify the damage he 
might, in certain  cases, have  been  able to make  a claim on his insurance.  However  because  
of when the inspection took place he says this wasnt an option.  
VWFS says that Mr W was responsible for the car up to the point of inspection and that 
although an inspection  may have taken  place prior to this it relied on the information  carried 
out by the inspection firm employed by VWFS. It says the inspection was carried out in line 
with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines in regard  to fair 
wear and tear. It says it has either  waived  or reduced the charges applied  following the 
inspection and it considers the remaining charges  to be fair.
VWFS says that although Mr W says he didnt  have the opportunity to have repair work 
carried out after the inspection it was his choice to leave the car with the dealer and not be 
present at the inspection. It says he would have  been aware of the condition  of the car at 
that time.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He thought that the offer to reduce the initial 
charges to £459.24 was reasonable. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the reduction  in the charges was due 
to VWFS  making  incorrect  assumptions. He said he had to prove that certain repairs were 
carried out by a registered company. He says he hasnt seen evidence  of the damage that 
he is still being charged for and that there is an unaccounted for period between when he 
handed the car back and when the inspection took place.  
Mr W also says that he tried to make contact regarding the inspection  but this wasnt 
successful. 
Mr W says the handling  of this issue has caused him anxiety and that he hasnt received an 
explanation or apology  for the delay in the inspection. He says on returning  the car he was 
told it was in excellent condition but VWFS hadnt  made any comment regarding  this. He 
said that had the inspection  been  arranged properly he would have had time to have any 
necessary repairs carried  out through his insurance. 
Ref: DRN38415312My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered into a hire agreement and in doing so agreed to its terms and conditions. 
These set out that he would be responsible for any damage to the car that is considered to 
fall outside of fair wear and tear.
I have looked  at the inspection report provided  and considered the damage in reference  to 
the industry guidelines  provided by the BVRLA  in regard  to what is considered fair wear  and 
tear. The inspection report recorded  the following damage:
Bonnet Front  - Unsatisfactory repair 
Bumper Front  - Unsatisfactory repair 
Right Hand Front  Door - Unsatisfactory repair 
Screen Front Scratched  
Seat base cover  scuffed.
Following Mr Ws complaint, the charges regarding the unsatisfactory  repairs  were removed 
along with an extra hire day fee. I note Mr Ws comments about these charges being applied  
incorrectly due to a delay in the delivery of his car and that he provided evidence  the repairs 
were carried  out by a registered company. I appreciate that his must  have  been  frustrating, 
however as these  charges are no longer being  applied I find that this resolves  this part of the 
complaint.
The outstanding charges  are for the damage  to the front screen and the seat base cover.  
These charges  were both reduced by VWFS. I have looked at the photographs included  in 
the inspection  report and I can see the scratch on the screen and the damage  to the seat 
cover. Having considered this damage  against what is accepted as fair wear and tear in the 
industry guidelines I find it reasonable that charges  were applied.
I note Mr Ws comments  about not having the opportunity to make repairs  after the 
inspection, however he would have been aware of the damage before he returned the car 
and so I think it reasonable  that had he wished to undertake repairs  he would have done so. 
I appreciate his comments about  not being  able to make contact with company in regard to 
the inspection  but as the car had been  returned  and the damage is evidenced, I do not find 
that I can say the charges have been  applied unfairly.
I understand this issue has caused  Mr W stress and inconvenience. I also note his 
comments about being told the car was in excellent  condition at the point of return. However, 
it is usual practice for an inception to be carried out following a cars return and as that 
showed damage that fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines I do not find that I can 
say it is unfair Mr W is charged for this. VWFS has reduced the charges for the outstanding 
items and I find that it is reasonable  that Mr W is liable for the current charges of £459.24.
Ref: DRN38415313my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3841531