K821x#15complaint
Mrs Y complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund  a payment made  using her credit card 
details. She says she neither made  nor authorised the payment.
background
Mrs Y has explained that, in November 2017,  her husbands eBay account was used to buy 
an iPad costing £299. Payment for the iPad was made through  PayPal, as is common for 
eBay transactions. It appears  that Mr Ys PayPal account is linked to Mrs Ys credit card, and 
so the credit card payment was made  to PayPal  to be passed to the seller.    
A few weeks  after the purchase, eBay contacted Mr Y to tell him that it appeared his account 
had been compromised.  It had identified changes in the pattern of account  usage and that a 
different device had been used on the account.  In an email  to Mr Y eBay said it had notified 
the seller, but that he might nevertheless receive  the item.  That would depend on whether 
the person who had compromised the account was able to change the delivery address. 
In the event, Mrs Y says,  her husband did receive  the iPad; it was sent to the address linked 
to the eBay account. At that point, therefore, Mrs Ys NewDay account  had been debited 
with £299 and her husband had received an iPad he hadnt  wanted, but for the price the 
seller had advertised. 
NewDay tried to recover the payment from PayPal, through the chargeback  process  a 
process by which  disputed card payments can be resolved through  the card schemes. That 
wasnt successful, however, mainly it seems  because  the seller  was able to demonstrate 
that the iPad had been delivered to the address linked  to the eBay  account  (and of course  to 
the credit  card).
NewDay didnt agree to make a refund. It relied  largely on the outcome of the chargeback 
request, pointing out that Mrs Y had had the benefit  of the item purchased  using her credit 
card through the payment to PayPal. 
Mrs Y referred the matter to this service.  She explained that she and her husband  had been  
able to sell the iPad for £150,  reducing  her loss to £149. But she still thought NewDay should 
meet that loss. One of our investigators  considered what  had happened. He accepted Mrs 
Ys account of events  and recommended that NewDay pay her £149  to resolve her 
complaint. NewDay didnt accept that recommendation, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.              
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
As a general principle,  a credit card issuer such as NewDay  shouldnt  hold its customer 
liable for transactions that the customer hasnt made themselves or authorised someone 
else to make on their behalf.  There can be exceptions,  of course  for example, where the 
cardholder has allowed someone else to take possession of the card  but I dont believe 
any of those apply  here.  Mrs Y had allowed Mr Y to link her card to his PayPal account, but 
that would  be relevant  only if he had authorised the payment to PayPal. 
Ref: DRN35743052The first issue I must consider therefore  is whether Mrs Y or her husband authorised  the 
payment. I believe theres strong evidence that they didnt. Specifically, eBay contacted Mr Y 
to tell him that his account had been  compromised. Its communication with him didnt simply 
identify an attempt to use his account; it identified  the specific transaction  which  was linked 
to the PayPal payment and by extension  to the credit card payment.  
Im satisfied therefore that the payment of £299 to PayPal wasnt authorised;  it was made 
without Mrs Ys consent. Unless theres a good reason, therefore, Mrs Y ought to have  that 
payment refunded. 
As Ive explained, both PayPal and NewDay said that Mrs Y benefited  from the payment 
because the iPad was delivered. Had a chargeback been successful, its likely that the 
sellers own PayPal account would have been debited; that would of course  have been  
unfair, since they had sent the iPad to Mr Y in the belief he had agreed to buy it. I note too 
that, strictly speaking, Mrs Y didnt benefit from the payment; Mr Y did, because he was the 
buyer through eBay.  I dont believe  anything  turns on that point, however, and I regard the 
receipt of the iPad as being of some benefit to both Mr and Mrs Y. 
I dont believe however that the delivery of the item purchased using Mrs Ys credit card is a 
reason to treat the transaction in the same  way as if she (or Mr Y) had consciously bought it 
themselves. In truth, Mrs Ys card was used to buy an item she didnt want  for a price  she 
hadnt agreed. 
The relevance of the delivery  of the item is that it reduced Mrs Ys losses.  It would of course 
be unfair for her to keep the iPad and have  a full refund. But shes not seeking that. Rather,  
she explained that she was able to sell it, albeit  for a much lower price  than she paid - £150. 
Im satisfied that she did that and in doing  so took reasonable steps to reduce her losses;  Im 
not persuaded that she could have  reasonably  obtained more.  Given the circumstances in 
which Mrs Y and her husband  obtained the iPad, I can see too that returning it to the seller  
wasnt an option. Having  sold it through other  channels, however, Mrs Y is still £149 out of 
pocket as a result of the unauthorised payment to PayPal. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that a payment  to Mrs Y  representing her 
net loss from the unauthorised payment  is a fair settlement in this case.               
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mrs Ys complaint, NewDay Ltd should  pay Mrs 
Y £149. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3574305