K821x#15about the complaint
Mr Ds complaint is that Agincourt  Financial Limited  managed his CFD account with a higher 
level of risk than he was prepared to take.  
background
Mr D switched two personal pensions (totalling around £45,000)  to a self invested personal 
pension (SIPP).  In November 2015 Mr D opened  a CFD trading account with Saxo to hold 
the funds held in the SIPP.  He completed a Limited Power of Attorney (LPOA) to allow the 
firm to manage his account on a discretionary  basis.  Mr D was introduced to the firm by 
GAP - an unregulated firm.  
Trading on the account stated in March 2016  and ended  in early July 2016 when a new 
manager (attorney) was appointed.  Mr Ds losses in the period up to the change  in attorney 
were significant.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by an adjudicator.  It was his view that the complaint 
should be upheld.  He said:
Whilst the introducer was subsequently  an appointed representative to Agincourt,  at 
the time of arranging  Mr Ds pension investments it was unregulated.
Mr D was close to retirement  and it was inappropriate for the entirety  of his pension  
to be invested  in such a high risk product.  
The firm disagreed.  It said:
Mr D had signed risk warnings provided  by Saxo  which  made clear the high risk nature of 
CFD trading.   Mr D had also been warned  by Saxo  that a CFD account  was not appropriate  
for him.  So  Mr D had gone  ahead knowing the high risk nature of the investments.
The adjudicator didnt change his view.  He said that Mr Ds wife had confirmed the 
paperwork was queried with the unregulated introducer.  It told them  it was something they 
had to say, but all they required  was all documents to be signed. This was done whilst Mr D 
was in hospital.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons.
It is not clear  from the available evidence how or why Mr D switched his personal pensions 
to a SIPP.  However, it seems that the purpose of this arrangement  was to enable Mr D to 
trade CFDs.  This switch took place  after conversations with an unregulated introducer.  
However, nothing  about  the discussions between the introducer  and Mr D was documented. 
Mr Ds recollections are sketchy and he seems  unsure who the people he spoke to were  
acting for  he said he thought they were  acting for the firm.  The firm say this is not correct.  
It has also been suggested that another  regulated  firm was involved in the switch  although 
again there is no evidence provided to support this. 
Ref: DRN35990072So exactly  what went on and why the switch to the SIPP took place isnt clear.
COBS 9.2.1R (1a) says that a firm must:  
take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision to trade, is 
suitable for its client;
(my emphasis)
In my view the firm has misunderstood its obligations as regards suitability  assuming that it 
had no obligations  beyond trading in line with Mr Ds attitude to risk.  It has said:
The client  had established a SIPP with the Lifetime  SIPP Company but Agincourt had not 
been involved in suggesting the SIPP  nor the investment nor advising the client on the 
establishment of his SIPP.
To this end the client completed and signed the necessary documentation with Agincourt 
and Saxo,  including the limited Power of Attorney in Agincourts favour and Agincourt  issued 
the transaction commission  fee structure to the client in addition  to Saxo. We did not advise 
the client to invest  or how much to invest.
The firm was making decisions  to trade  on Mr Ds account and was therefore obliged  to 
ensure these decisions were suitable  for him.  COBS 9.2 says that when managing 
investments, a firm must obtain the following  information about the investor  to establish their:  
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
The information regarding  the financial situation  of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets,  including liquid 
assets, investments  and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
The firm did not obtain any of its own information  about Mr D.  Instead it seems  to have 
relied on the information obtained by Saxo.  However, Saxo  was recording information to 
establish whether  the account  was appropriate  not whether the account was suitable.  As a 
result the information  recorded wasnt particularly detailed.
Whilst various statements  were  made  that CFD trading  was high risk the level of risk that Mr 
D wanted to take was not properly established  no explanation or description  of what  high 
risk entails was provided to Mr D.
Basic information about Mr Ds income and savings was recorded  on the Saxo forms.  
Nothing was recorded about Mr Ds investment objectives or the length of time he wanted  to 
keep the investment.  Given how close Mr D was to retirement age this latter  point would be 
particularly important.
Despite the limited information  available I am satisfied that it was apparent  from the available  
information that the CFD account was unsuitable for Mr D. 
Ref: DRN35990073As set out in COBS 9.2 there are three key factors in determining whether an investment is 
suitable. These are: 
Does the investment  match the level of risk that investor is prepared to take?  
Do they have the knowledge and understanding to understand the level of risk they 
are taking? 
Is the investment  consistent with their financial circumstances i.e. do they have the 
capacity to withstand the scale  of the financial loss they are exposed  to?
Whilst Mr D was given information which described the product as high risk I am not 
persuaded Mr D was in reality a high risk investor.   He had limited exposure to risk 
investments  for example one of his personal  pensions was invested  entirely  in a with 
profits fund  not the typical product of a high risk investor.  He would appear  to have no 
other risk based investments.  However,  even if I accept that Mr D was a high risk investor I 
am not persuaded that the other tests of suitability  have  been met.  
Given his limited investment experience I dont think Mr D had the knowledge  or experience  
to appreciate the level of risk he was taking.   This  conclusion is consistent with that of Saxo 
who warned Mr D that the CFD account wasnt appropriate for him.  An appropriateness test 
is designed to ensure  that the investor  has the knowledge and experience to appreciate the 
risks of the product.   
The third factor is Mr Ds financial circumstances.  The CFD account  represented  the entirety 
of Mr Ds SIPP, which in turn represented the entirety of his pension provision.  Even if Mr D 
was prepared to take a high level of risk - and I am not persuaded he was  for an investor 
to invest the entirety  of his pension in a single high risk product is unsuitable.  CFD  trading  
carried the very real risk of losing the entirety  of the investment.   Mr D was relatively close to 
retirement and was not in a position  to withstand  such a loss.  This was especially the case  
given the relatively  short  time before Mr Ds expected  date of retirement.   This  would  make  it 
unlikely that he would  be able to recoup substantial losses in the relatively short  time period 
available.
For these reasons my decision is that the CFD account was not suitable  for Mr D.  On being 
appointed to manage the account  the firm should  have told Mr D that the account was 
unsuitable.  I consider  it reasonable to assume that if Mr D had been advised  by a regulated 
adviser that the CFD account  was unsuitable  he would have heeded the advice.  So shortly 
after the firm was appointed to manage the account I consider it reasonable to assume that 
Mr D would have made alternative  arrangements which  were  suitable for him.    
The adjudicators view was that Mr D with suitable  advice  would have invested  in a relatively 
cautious manner.   I consider  this is consistent with his circumstances,  knowledge and 
experience and probable attitude  to risk.     
The adjudicators view was that the loss of his pension provision would  have been  upsetting  
for Mr D.  I agree with the adjudicator and award Mr D £250 to compensate for this.  
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
Ref: DRN35990074what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr D's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Agincourt do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Agincourt must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
The value of the CFD account at the end date is the value of the cash in the account 
plus or minus any unrealised profits or losses.
Agincourt should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Agincourt  should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase  its value  
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Agincourt is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr D's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr D £200 for the upset caused by incurring substantial  losses  through an 
inappropriate investment.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  date of 
investmentdate of 
transferred  
agency8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN35990075rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date  the end date being 
the point at which a new attorney was appointed. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Agincourt 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Agincourt  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.   
The end point  is in early July 2016  when another firm was granted power of attorney to 
manage the account.  Mr  D has made a complaint about the second  firm and this is being 
dealt with separately.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr D wanted income  with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr D into that position.  It does not mean that Mr D would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
Ref: DRN35990076sort of return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Agincourt Financial Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Agincourt Financial  Limited should provide details of its calculation  to Mr D in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3599007