K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) was not of satisfactory  quality. He 
wants to reject the vehicle  and terminate the agreement.
background
Mr P tells he acquired the vehicle in May 2017.  He says the intention was that it would be 
used by him and another family member. He reports there was a fault within a few days  of 
supply and that a loose  part was refitted. In February 2018 he says a further issue  arose 
which was diagnosed as relating to a high voltage  problem with the battery. He says the car 
was taken for repairs - as his local dealer couldnt  handle this type of work but there was a 
significant delay  in the repairs being completed. Mr P says he was provided with 
replacement vehicles but these were not suitable  for his needs. As he lost faith with the 
vehicle, Mr P says he took out a bank loan and obtained another  vehicle. He says he told 
VWFS hed stopped  payments on its agreement as he couldnt afford both.
VWFS told us the issues which led to the vehicle requiring the latest repairs  occurred more 
than eight months after supply. And it said Mr P had raised a complaint at the end of April 
2018 - by which time hed stopped making  payments.  It said there was no evidence the fault 
was present at the point of supply  and it wouldnt accept  rejection  of the vehicle. VWFS  told 
us that the vehicle had subsequently been left at a dealers and attempts to contact Mr P had 
not been successful. It said it had terminated  the agreement on 20 August 2018. But VWFS  
told us later, it had then discovered that Mr P had collected the vehicle from the dealers.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that, based on 
the information which had been  provided, he couldnt say the vehicle was not of satisfactory 
quality at the time of supply. So he wouldnt be able to recommend the vehicle should be 
rejected.
Mr P said he strongly disagreed with the adjudicators view and wasnt  able to accept the 
conclusion. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsman has been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr P experienced  problems  with this vehicle and I understand that it can be 
frustrating when things  go wrong - particularly with what was an almost  new,  low mileage 
vehicle at the time he acquired it.
Mr Ps hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. VWFS  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle.
Ref: DRN34487652I dont apply the law - directly but I do take it into account. And relevant legislation  here is the 
Consumer Rights Act of 2015. Briefly summarised,  this states  that theres an implied 
condition in every  contract to supply goods  that they will be of satisfactory quality at the time 
of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined as being what a reasonable person  would  
consider to be satisfactory. And where  a fault - for which the supplier is responsible - is 
identified more than 30 days  after supply, the supplier is allowed to have the opportunity  to 
repair the fault. Only if that repair is unsuccessful is the customer then able to reject  the item 
on this ground.
I can see there was a problem with the vehicle soon after Mr P took possession.  This seems 
to have been related to a breather pipe not having  been fitted  correctly  - and it was quickly  
repaired. But on 1 February 2018  a more serious problem occurred which  involved  a high 
voltage fault with the battery. And this led to quite a lengthy delay before the vehicle was 
repaired around 16 March  2018.  The mileage recorded at the time the vehicle went  in for this 
repair was 6,683.  During the time the vehicle was being repaired it seems Mr P was 
provided with replacement vehicles - but these were  not of the same specification and 
werent entirely suitable for his needs.  It appears  that during  this period Mr P decided to 
acquire another vehicle. That was his personal decision - but it didnt  remove the obligations 
hed already incurred under the hire purchase  agreement.
The vehicle was returned to Mr P, in March 2018  - having been  repaired successfully. He 
then contacted VWFS on 30 April.  In this call he explained the arrears on the agreement  
were because it had been  under repair for six weeks. And he told VWFS that hed taken a 
bank loan to get another  car. A formal complaint was logged during this call.
On or around 17 May the vehicle was taken to a VW garage Ill call T, as the fuel flap was 
not opening. There is a warranty invoice dated 8 June 2018  detailing the work carried  out. 
The mileage  recorded  at this time was 8,239. And Ive seen contact notes from 17 July 
between VWFS and T in which T says the vehicle had remained  with it for the previous six 
weeks. T also stated  Mr P had not responded to contact attempts. As no payments had been 
made since January  2018, VWFS started the process  to terminate the agreement  and seek  
repossession of the vehicle. The agreement was formally terminated on 20 August.
On 24 August Mr P contacted VWFS  and was told the agreement was terminated.  But he 
informed VWFS hed already taken the vehicle  back from T. And this seems to be confirmed 
as theres a record of a service being  carried out on 31 August. The mileage recorded is 
8,414.
Although Mr P had expressed the wish to terminate  the agreement  and reject the vehicle Im 
bound to say that some  of his actions were  inconsistent  with this. He stopped  paying  for the 
vehicle in January  2018  - yet the mileage records suggest hes used it to cover around 1,800  
at various times between  March and September 2018. And it appears  hes continued to use 
the vehicle - even  though hes been made aware the agreement has been terminated. Im 
not sure why Mr P would think  he was entitled to use the vehicle when hes not been  paying 
for it.
Mr P also made reference to vehicle recalls - but as far as I can see the vehicle has just had 
software upgrades.  Ive not seen any information to show there have been any safety 
recalls.
Ref: DRN34487653Ive not been provided with any information which shows the fault with the high voltage  
battery was present at the point of supply. The repair  was carried  out with Mr Ps agreement
and Ive seen  nothing to indicate it was not carried out successfully.  The fact that the vehicle 
has covered around  1,800 miles or more since is ample proof of this. So I cant say the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied or that Mr P is entitled to reject it.
I can see no reasonable basis for Mr P refusing to make payments and yet still keeping  and 
using the vehicle. And I think  VWFS has acted fairly in terminating  the agreement  and 
seeking to repossess the vehicle.
Im aware my decision  is likely to come  as a disappointment to Mr P but Im not upholding  
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3448765