K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC (then trading as EGG Card) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its most likely  Barclays  made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this. I say 
that because,  based  on what we know about these  types  of sales,  Mr D would have 
been presented  with a yes and no option  when completing the sale online. 
Barclays have also sent me the information Mr D provided when completing the online 
purchase. And under the section for PPI, the letter Y has been  inserted to likely indicate  
Yes.     
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr D got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong  and in saying  this Ive also considered  
what hes said about his sick pay.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN39556172my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3955617