K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Citifinancial Europe Limited (Citi)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In 2003, Mr B took out a loan with Citi. At the same time he was sold a single premium PPI policy.  
The cost of the policy was added to his loan, which meant that interest was charged on it.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. This was because they 
didnt think the cost of the policy had been  made clear enough to him. Citi disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case was passed  to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
this case. 
Having done so, Im upholding  the complaint. Ill explain why.
When Citi sold the PPI policy  to Mr B it needed  to make sure, among other things,  he was 
given enough  information about it to decide if it was right for him. This information needed to 
be clear,  fair and not misleading. I dont think it did this in relation to the cost of the policy. 
I can see that the single premium  chargeable for the policy  was included on the Insurance 
Application Form and the credit  agreement (although on the latter its cost was combined 
with other  insurance  added at the same  time)  both of which  Mr B signed. But I havent 
seen any documents  or evidence showing the interest to be charged on this PPI premium  
over the term of the loan, or the total cost of the PPI including this interest. The amount of 
Mr Bs monthly loan repayments  which would relate  to his PPI policy  arent shown either.
This missing information about the cost of his policy represented relatively significant sums 
of money. So I think it would have been important to Mr B in making  an informed choice 
about whether  he wanted to take out this cover. And, taking  account  of what  I know about 
his circumstances  at the time, I dont think he would have thought the policy  represented 
good value for money or that hed still have wanted to buy it if Citi had given him better cost 
information than it did.
So I think Mr Bs lost out as a result of this failure  by Citi and that he should be 
compensated for it.
Ive thought carefully about what Citis said in response to our adjudicators view. But none of 
the points it makes have  changed my mind about upholding this complaint. I still think the 
cost information  given to Mr B by Citi wasnt clear enough for him to make  an informed 
decision. And if it had been, I dont think hed have chosen to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN38397722putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been and 
he paid more than he should have each  month. So Mr B needs  to get back the extra  hes paid.
So, Citi should:
-Work out and pay Mr B the difference between  what he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra  amount Mr B paid each  month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
-If Mr B made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citi can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
-If Citi has already repaid any commission amount to Mr B that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can also be deducted  from the compensation  it owes  him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citi to take off tax from this interest. Citi must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint against Citifinancial Europe  Limited  and 
require it to put things right for Mr B as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3839772