K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about a life and critical illness policy sold to him by The Co-operative 
Bank Plc (Co-op). Hes said the policy was mis-sold because at the time he took it he had 
sufficient protection  through his employer and also had no dependents and so didnt need it.
background
In 2009 Mr C was buying his first home. He took out a mortgage  on a non-advised basis.  He 
was buying the property via a specific scheme,  so his borrowing comprised of a mortgage  of 
around £110,000 plus a shared equity  loan of just under £30,000.
At the same time Mr C took out a level term assurance and critical  illness protection  policy 
for just under  £140,000  set up over the course  of twenty-five  years  which  was the term of his 
borrowing. This policy was also sold on a non-advised basis.
Mr C has said that before Co-op had contacted him about reviewing his insurance  he had 
never considered taking  life cover. He said he was bombarded with questions by Co-op 
and felt pressured into taking some sort of protection.  He said Co-op presented  him with two 
options, either to take cover for the mortgage  only or to take over that included  his shared 
equity loan. So he chose  to take protection for the full amount of his borrowing. However, he 
now says he had no need for the policy because of the cover he had through his employer  
and also because he had no dependents  now or then that would  have been  adversely 
affected if he passed away during the term of the mortgage.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it should  be upheld.  She 
was persuaded  by Mr Cs recollection of the time of the sale and was of the view that he 
wouldnt have taken  any life cover if it had not been for Co-op contacting  him. She felt that 
given he had no dependents  the life cover element of the policy  was unsuitable however she 
felt that despite  the cover  he had through his employer  the critical illness part would still have 
been useful for him. She therefore recommended a refund of the part of the premiums  paid 
towards the life cover,  plus interest.
Co-op didnt agree with the assessment. It explained  a number of calls took place with Mr C 
regarding the life protection. It said it didnt provide any advice but did suggest Mr C take a 
decreasing term assurance policy to cover the extent of his mortgage  borrowing only.
However, it was Mr C who decided he wanted  a level term assurance  and critical illness 
policy for the entirety of his borrowing including the loan and this wasnt suggested by Co-op 
at any time.
Mr C also didnt agree  with the assessment  and felt the critical illness element of the policy 
was also mis-sold.
I issued my provisional findings on February  2019  where I set out why I didnt agree with the 
outcome reached  by the investigator  and why I thought the complaint couldnt  be upheld.  An 
extract is below and forms part of this decision:
On the face of it usually someone  with no dependents  would have no need for any life 
protection when  taking  some form of borrowing. So, in this case  I dont think  Mr C had a 
need for life cover element  of the policy. However,  it cant be ignored that the policy was sold 
without advice. This means  Co-op  was required to provide Mr C with enough information or 
Ref: DRN32423912him to make  a fully informed decision about whether he should  take the cover and what  type 
of cover that would be.
I appreciate Mr C says he felt pressured  into taking some sort of cover. However,  I have 
looked at the notes  that were made at the time of the sale and during the telephone calls that 
followed. I can see Co-op spoke to Mr C on 13 March 2009  to arrange an insurance review 
to take place on 23 March 2009.  Mr C agreed  for this call to take place. In the call on 23 
March Co-op suggested Mr C take decreasing  life and critical illness cover for the mortgage. 
However, Mr C declined  this and asked to take out a level life and critical illness  protection 
plan instead for the entirety of his borrowing. This to me indicates  that Mr C had some 
knowledge about these policies to ask for something Co-op hadnt mentioned. I also think 
there was enough  time between the calls for Mr C to consider  his options. I can also see that 
in the same call Mr C declined mortgage protection payment  protection  insurance. Again, 
this indicates to me that he was in a position to know  what  protection he did want and didnt 
want. I also think its unlikely he was pressured into taking something he didnt want  when he 
declined other  suggested  cover  at the same  time.
I can also see Co-op called Mr C again on 27 March 2009  to ask how he felt about the 
quotes and the life insurance. Again, this gave Mr C time to reflect on the previous call and 
he had the opportunity to change his mind  if he wanted to.
So while I think there is something in Mr C saying he wouldnt have thought  about  protection  
had Co-op not mentioned it, against the evidence set out above  its very hard for me to 
conclude that Mr C was pressured into taking something and that he didnt choose the policy 
himself.
Co-op agreed with my provisional  findings  and provided no further comments.
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional findings.  He remained of the view the policy  had been 
mis-sold and provided the following comments.
He said at no point  did Co-op explain the policy wasnt required if he didnt have any 
dependants or had certain cover  through work.
Co-op should have made an assessment on whether he was over-covered.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And while I have taken account of Mr Cs 
additional comments, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings.
I know Mr C feels  Co-op  should have told him he didnt  need the cover if he didnt have 
dependants or had some  cover through  his employer. However, with regards to how much 
Co-op should have told him about needing  the cover  if he didnt have any dependants  or 
making an assessment  on whether he was over covered or not, this really  crosses over into 
Co-op providing advice  which,  as Ive already stated in my provisional  findings,  it didnt do in 
Mr Cs case. There  is a fine line between  information giving and providing advice, but all that 
Mr C feels Co-op  should  have done  required an assessment of Mr Cs personal and financial 
situation at that point  in time and this would constitute advice.
Its also worth pointing  out that any cover he held through his employer would only be in 
place whilst he continued to work  for that employer.  So having  separate  protection  would 
Ref: DRN32423913have been a good idea because it meant  this remained in place  regardless  of where he 
works and what an employer offered. 
Ultimately, as already  said,  as Co-op  didnt provide any advice to Mr C it was entirely up to 
him to decide whether to take the policy  or not. It was up to him to think  about  the 
information Co-op provided him and make  a decision himself, in light of his employers 
benefits and personal and financial situation,  whether to take the policy out or not. And given 
it looks to me the policy was sold over the course of three telephone calls I think he was in a 
position to think  about the options  he had been presented with and to research what the 
information meant if he wasnt clear before he committed to taking the policy out.
Therefore, for the reasons explained above I dont think  Co-op  mis-sold the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3242391