K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that National  Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold him a 
packaged bank  account, called an Advantage Gold account in 2001.
Mr B paid a monthly  fee for the account  and received several  potential  benefits in return. He 
thinks that Natwest should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt think that 
Natwest mis-sold  the Advantage Gold account to him 
Mr B didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Bs case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mr B and Natwest have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr B has been very clear and precise  about why he is complaining.  Hes told us that in 2001 
he wanted to take a loan from Natwest and that during  a one-to-one meeting  with one of its 
representatives, it advised him that it would only allow the loan if he bought the Advantage 
Gold account, and recommended  that he should buy the account. Mr B thinks that Natwest 
misled him about this, and he could have had the loan without needing to buy the Advantage 
Gold account. 
Well over 15 years  have passed  since Natwest sold the Advantage Gold account to Mr B, 
and not surprisingly  neither party has been  able to send us any detailed notes or records  
from the time to show exactly  what happened. So I cant tell for sure what took place  and 
what Natwest did or didnt  say. So Ive looked at the evidence that I do have and the 
circumstances at the time to assess what is most likely to have occurred.
Natwest has told us that it didnt recommend the Advantage  Gold account to Mr B, but sold it 
to him on an information only basis. I accept that this may have been how Natwest  sold 
some  of its Advantage  Gold accounts  in 2001, but as Mr B has been  very clear and 
consistent about the meeting, Im satisfied that he certainly believed that Natwest  was 
recommending the account to him. So I have assessed his complaint on this basis.  This 
meant that Natwest would  have  had to check that Advantage Gold Account was a 
reasonable choice for Mr B before advising him to buy it. Ive looked  into Mr Bs 
circumstanced to see if Natwest  made  its recommendation fairly.
Prior to taking the Advantage Gold account, Mr M had banked  with Natwest for several  years  
and I understand  that he had held different types  of fee-free account. He had also taken 
several different  loans.  I understand  that at times  Mr B borrowed quite significant amounts of 
Ref: DRN37646492money. And hes explained  to us that in 2001 he wanted a fresh loan to consolidate his 
debts.  
The potential benefits of the Advantage Gold account varied from time-to-time, but they often  
provided customers with lower interest rates on some  types  of loan (and overdrafts) than 
Natwest charged customers  with fee-free accounts. For large  loans, these savings on 
interest rates could  be significant for some customers. 
Given the way Mr B had used his account and the loans he had taken up to 2001, and his 
request for a further loan,  it seems to me that it was probably reasonable for Natwest to 
recommend the Advantage Gold account  to him, as depending on what happened from then 
onwards, it may have  saved him money. I think this is probably what happened. So I accept  
that Natwest may well have told Mr B that if he wanted the potentially cheaper  loan he had to 
buy the Advantage Gold account, but I think its unlikely that it told him that he needed the 
Advantage Gold account to qualify for any loan. After all, he had taken several  loans before 
without needing  to open a different bank account. 
Of course,  whatever recommendation  Natwest  made, it shouldnt have denied  Mr B the 
choice to keep  his fee-free account  if he wanted.  I havent seen anything to convince  me that 
Natwest denied Mr B such a choice.
In correspondence  with us, Mr B has said that he thinks Natwest  tricked  him into taking the 
Advantage Gold account when he was a young age. As I think that Natwests 
recommendation was reasonable,  I dont  agree  with Mr B about  this. But in fairness to him, 
Ive also considered the evidence I have available to see if Natwest may have  mis-sold  the 
account on any other grounds. Whilst I accept that Natwest may not have done  everything 
right, I havent found any other  reasons to make me think  that it mis-sold  the Advantage 
Gold account to Mr B. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give him any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3764649