K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained to Capital Asset Management  Ltd (Capital) about  the length  of time it 
took to inform him that it wouldnt be able to facilitate the transfer of his defined  benefit 
pension funds from his Occupational Pension  Scheme  (OPS) to a Personal  Pension Plan 
(PPP).
Mr B has said that, due to the delays incurred, it left him with no time to find an alternative  
adviser before the deadline  for his Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV)  expired.  The 
CETV reduced after that deadline, and Mr B would like to be compensated for what he 
considers to be his financial  loss as a consequence.
background 
Mr Bs OPS administrators  provided  him with a CETV of around £560,000 in September 
2017. This was valid for three months, but the deadline was later extended to 26 January 
2018. The transfer quote said that, due to an improvement in the OPS funding  position, a 
lowering of the underfunding  deduction meant that the transfer values from the scheme 
had increased.
Mr B decided to transfer his OPS benefits  and approached Capital to assist him with this. 
Capital sent the relevant information  to its pension transfer specialists, which would produce 
the required transfer value analysis.
In February 2018,  Capital  informed Mr B that its pension transfer specialist had decided to 
no longer advise on transfers from Mr Bs OPS. This was after the deadline had passed  and, 
in the interim, Mr Bs OPS  benefits had been moved into a successor  scheme.
Mr B requested a further transfer value quote  in May 2018, but was informed that this was in 
the region of £120,000  lower. 
Mr B complained to Capital on the above basis, but Capital didnt uphold  the complaint. It 
said that it hadnt made the decision to not process the transfer   rather  this had been  down 
to the pension transfer specialist it used for this type of transaction.  It said that it had made 
Mr B aware of this as soon as it had itself been  informed, but that it wasnt  responsible for 
the reduction in the CETV. It also confirmed that no fees had been  charged to Mr B.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr B referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
considered the matter  and said the following in summary.
In respect of the delays and updates provided to Mr B as to progress, he noted that Mr B 
had said some of his colleagues  had received  confirmation  much sooner that their transfer 
wouldnt be progressed. But he said that we consider complaints on their individual merits 
and there  was no guarantee that a different business would have been able to complete the 
transfer in time.
He did, however, think that Mr B should  have  been  informed sooner than he was that the 
transfer wouldnt be proceeding,  as this would have given him the option of seeking  
assistance elsewhere. He noted that the pension transfer specialist had informed  Capital 
that it wouldnt be advising  on the transfer  on 7 December 2017, but Mr B wasnt informed of 
this until two months later. He also said that there  were further  information  and 
correspondence requests even after that point.
Ref: DRN34319252The investigator explained the transfer process, including the provision of a critical yield 
figure which is the growth figure required for a transferred pension sum to match the benefits  
in the ceding scheme.  This,  amongst other aspects, would form the basis  of any subsequent 
advice to transfer. But he noted  that Mr Bs transfer  didnt get to that stage.
As to the CETV figure, the investigator said that these can rise and fall in value,  and that as 
it had been over two years since the last one was produced, it was possible that it had risen 
again  and could be higher than that originally quoted in 2017.
The investigator also said that, as the transfer  hadnt  proceeded, Mr B remained a member 
of his OPS and would be gaining from the valuable benefits that it provided. Whilst CETVs 
could fluctuate  over time, he said it was likely that the scheme  benefits  would either  remain 
the same  or improve over time.
Mr B had also remained in the scheme since learning of the lower CETV, the investigator 
observed. This, he said, may well have worked  out to Mr Bs favour in the long term. 
Nevertheless, conscious of the delays incurred, the investigator acknowledged  that Mr B 
would have become frustrated  with the situation and understood why he felt that hed been 
disadvantaged  although he did also say that there was no guarantee that a different 
business would have processed  the transfer. 
The investigator therefore recommended that Capital pay Mr B the sum of £500 in respect  of 
this.
The business agreed to the proposal,  but Mr B said that he didnt feel the award was 
sufficient to compensate  for his perceived  loss. Mr B said that hed respond in further  detail 
once hed consulted  his solicitor, but weve heard  nothing  further  from him.
However, as agreement hasnt been  reached on the matter, its been  referred  to me for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the overall  same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Mr B quite understandably feels that hes incurred a financial loss due to the reduction in the 
CETV between September 2017  and May 2018   and from my understanding of matters, he 
had plans for at least some of that transfer value.
But the investigator has picked on some very important points, and ones  which I hope Mr B 
will recognise as being potential significant  advantages to his current  situation. The pension 
transfer specialist  wont have declined to advise  on the transfer without a good reason, 
especially given the potential remuneration which is routinely to be gained.  And its entirely 
possible that it was aware  of the developments and concerns at the time  and since   which 
have also been  widely publicised  in the media  about  the possibility of members of Mr Bs 
particular OPS being poorly advised  to transfer  their benefits.
Ref: DRN34319253The concerns have centred on the potential of members not appreciating, or rather  not 
having it made clear  by an advising firm, of the very valuable  benefits they might be 
relinquishing through such  a transfer.
Thats not to say that such  a transfer  wouldnt have been suitable for Mr B, and I make no 
comment on his particular  case. But it nevertheless remains the case  that the pension  
transfer specialist  may well have concluded,  in line with the regulators guidance that an 
assumption should be made at the outset  of such a process that a transfer  is not going to be 
in the individuals best interest, that this may well have been  the case  for Mr B.
So notwithstanding the plans that Mr B may have had for some of the transferred pension 
money, as noted  by the investigator, he may very well be better off overall by not having  
transferred. Its also fair to say that the CETV will most likely have changed again since  May 
2018. The manner  of calculating scheme benefits  often changes, and takes into account 
many different factors including the schemes funding position, interest rates, prospective 
growth figure  and gilt yields. 
But if Mr B revisits this option in the future,  I would strongly recommend that, in the first 
instance, he seeks financial  advice  on the proposal.  This will enable him to think carefully 
about the guaranteed  scheme benefits  he would  be relinquishing. And whilst Im unable to 
make any comment  about whether such a transfer  would be suitable for Mr B, he may also 
wish to consider the relatively high uphold rates when we consider complaints of ex-
scheme members who later say they were unsuitably advised to transfer  having  perhaps 
witnessed the value of their no longer guaranteed benefits decline due to the performance of 
financial markets, or when they appreciate  and compare  the value of the formerly  
guaranteed pension income for life against  that which they might  achieve in the annuity 
market with the transferred fund. 
That Mr B didnt ultimately transfer  his scheme benefits is also a key factor here. For 
example, had he in any case done so out of a position of need rather  than thinking  about the 
potential utility of such a seemingly large  amount of cash, and had received a lower CETV  
than he might otherwise  have achieved with swifter action  on the part of Capital, I might be 
minded to uphold  the complaint. In that instance, there would be an actual loss caused by 
delays.
But no such  loss has crystallised here.  Mr B, for better or worse (although experience  leads 
me to believe the former is more likely, albeit not certain, to be the case here) has retained 
his benefits in the (successor) scheme. And so theres no actual loss to compensate  him for.
Nevertheless, I agree with the investigator  that Mr B will understandably have been  
frustrated and upset  at the thought  of missing out on a higher initial  transfer value, and I 
agree that it took too long for Capital to tell him that the pension transfer specialist wasnt 
proceeding with the transfer. As such,  I think the suggested payment of £500 is appropriate 
recompense for the delays and the disappointment Mr B will inevitably have felt when he 
learned of the lower  value  and what had transpired  in terms of the delays.  
Ref: DRN34319254my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  I direct Capital Asset  Management Ltd to pay 
Mr B £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3431925