K822xcomplaint
Miss I complains of delays and unfair treatment by Nationwide Building Society in dealing  
with her application for a mortgage.  
To resolve  her complaint  she believes Nationwide should compensate  her by payment of 
£36,841.90 including for the inconvenience and stress caused  to her.
background 
Miss I initially complained to this service by phone. Shed made a mortgage application to 
Nationwide and was unhappy that it had been  rejected.  She explained the first survey  was 
positive, but a second survey wasn't. So she felt Nationwide should  conduct a third survey.
She also said Nationwide had rejected her application as she lived in a high rise block.  But 
her flat was on the fourth floor, and according  to Nationwides lending  criteria, the first five 
floors of a high rise weren't considered to be high rise flats.
We referred Miss Is complaint to Nationwide who issued a final response letter.  It said two 
valuations were carried out and whilst the first one confirmed the property was suitable,  the 
second valuation  declined the property  because it was within  a high-rise block of flats.
Nationwide said initially Miss Is bonus  had been  input  as monthly rather  than annual, and 
when this was adjusted,  the loan became unaffordable. The loan amount was reduced and 
the mortgage term was requested to be altered.
Further amendments were made to the application, and as this progressed Nationwide 
asked for additional  documentation to support it. The first valuation expired and Nationwide 
told Miss Is broker  that the application would need  to be resubmitted. Following the second 
valuation it was confirmed  the property should  be declined  in accordance  with Nationwide's 
lending criteria.
Miss I had requested  a further valuation be carried out. Nationwide  had arranged for this to 
take place as a gesture of goodwill. The third valuation said the property was suitable 
security for Nationwide to lend on. However  in the meantime, Miss Is broker had cancelled 
the application. Nationwide said it was for the individual surveyor to interpret the evidence 
available when providing his opinion of value and suitability of the property.
Miss I wasnt  satisfied  with Nationwide's response. She said it hadnt disclosed the full truth 
of what had happened. Nationwide  had said her bonus details were entered  incorrectly.  
Miss I said this statement  was untrue. She said the truth was that the Nationwide  underwriter 
wasnt happy with the way her employer paid her annual bonus. The first £2,000.00 of an 
employee bonus was paid via payroll and the remaining bonus was paid in shares.
Nationwide requested evidence of this arrangement  on headed paper, which she supplied.  
The underwriter requested further evidence for previous  years  payments which  she again 
supplied although  she believed the request for evidence  of previous years reward  packages 
was unreasonable.
However Miss I said the underwriter was still unhappy as he/she felt the way her employer 
paid bonuses was wrong. Therefore the underwriter refused to accept her annual bonus in 
full on the mortgage application.  This meant the mortgage became unaffordable for her. 
Ref: DRN32503232Owing to the delay she had to resubmit her mortgage application which meant  another  
valuation. This time Nationwide sent a different surveyor who said she lived in a tower and 
the property wasnt  an acceptable security. This was also untrue. Nationwide  hadnt 
responded to her complaint about the valuations being different.
She said the delay  also meant she had to pay £3,341.90  additional interest to her existing 
mortgage provider  following  expiry of the fixed interest rate.
Our investigator said Nationwide advised  that the initial application  submitted  by Miss Is 
broker confirmed that her bonus  was in excess of £8,000 per month, and as part of its 
underwriting criteria it asked for confirmation of this. When confirmation of the bonus was 
received, it became apparent that part of the bonus  was paid to Miss I as a cash  payment, 
but a large part of it was a deferred  bonus which was paid as shares.
The investigator said Nationwide  didnt normally accept deferred bonuses  as part of the 
affordability calculation,  as it was considered as cashing in an investment. The amount 
received depended on the share  price  at the time of sale and could fluctuate. Also there was 
no obligation  on the employee to sell the shares at the time of the award. However as an 
exception the underwriters had agreed to accept the cash bonus paid in March  and took an 
average of the shares paid.
Most of the time spent  was on considering  the application and the bonus. The bonus was 
agreed, but Nationwide still required confirmation of a pay increase which Miss I had 
received. Before satisfactory  proof  could  be received the decision in principle expired and a 
new application had to be submitted.
The investigator said that when setting its lending  criteria it was a commercial decision  for a 
business what income to use as part of its affordability calculations and it wasnt the role of 
this service to tell a business what it should do.
The investigator said that the first valuation had said there were 18 floors in the block, but 
also stated that the property  was classed as suitable  security for the loan. The second  
valuation said there were 17 floors, and noted that the section of the block  Miss Is flat was in 
only had 5 storeys. But ultimately the valuer felt that the property wasnt  a suitable security 
for Nationwide.
The investigator said it wasnt our role to look at what the surveyors  did or didnt do. We 
looked at whether Nationwide did everything required of it. With regard to valuations we 
required a business  to have instructed suitably qualified surveyors.  The lender wasnt  a 
surveyor and when  looking  at the valuation of a property, it was accepted  that the lender was 
able to rely on the opinion  of a third party independent expert. 
The investigator said that when the second valuation came  in, Nationwide  raised a query  
with the surveyor  as to why he felt the property  wasnt a suitable security. Getting this 
clarification took some  time, and the investigator thought Nationwide could have done more 
to assist Miss I. It would have been  logical to obtain a third valuation. This was eventually 
done, but had a third valuation been  instructed sooner,  it was likely that the application 
would have been able to proceed.
The third valuation wasnt charged for and the other valuations would have been charged for 
anyway, so there was no financial detriment. But the investigator was satisfied that Miss I did 
experience a great deal of distress and inconvenience with regard to the length of time the 
Ref: DRN32503233application process took, and the process  followed by Nationwide after the second valuation. 
She recommended that Nationwide pay Miss I £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her.
Nationwide agreed  to do this. Miss I didnt agree and asked  for her complaint to be looked at 
again. She said she was out of pocket by £36,841.90 (including the £500 mortgage  
provider's fee) because of Nationwide's irresponsibility and hidden internal  policy  and 
procedure.
Her broker had confirmed  that the error  about the bonus was rectified  straight away. Miss I said it 
wasnt correct that the amount received was dependent  on the share  price  at the time of sale 
and could fluctuate. She was paid what she was entitled to after tax and there was no 
fluctuation in her bonus payment in shares. 
Nationwide was provided with payslips which showed an increase in her salary.  But 
Nationwide wanted  a letter from her employer even  though the payslips matched the bank 
statements. This request  was unjustified. Nationwide  should have accepted  the payslips as 
proof of the pay rise.
She said she still didn't  know  why the property was considered high risk by the second 
surveyor. Nationwide could have  done more such as sending  a third surveyor of its own 
accord or questioning both surveyors about  the contradiction, instead of waiting for her to 
raise a formal complaint.
Miss I also raised a number of queries  about the adequacy  of the surveyors  valuations.  
Nationwide could have  investigated why a flat in that area was risky. It could have looked at 
recent sales.
The investigator had said Nationwide  acted fairly in assessing Miss Is bonus income on an 
individual basis and agreeing to accept  part of this in its affordability  calculation. But Miss I 
thought she should have  been informed that her bonus wasnt accepted. Then she would 
have gone elsewhere without wasting  her time.
She had suffered financial detriment. She paid her existing lender £3,341.90  extra  in interest  
because of Nationwides delay. And she paid her broker £500.00 for his services  which  she 
didnt require as she stayed with her existing  lender.
Her fundamental complaint was that Nationwide held her accountable and responsible for 
her employer's actions  and had penalised her for its policies and procedures.  This 
fundamental fact still stood true because  if her employer had paid her full bonus via PAYE  
code she wouldnt have  had this issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This mortgage application was delayed for a number of reasons.
Initially Miss Is bonus was incorrectly keyed in as monthly rather  than annual,  and when  this 
error was discovered  Nationwide said the mortgage was unaffordable. Miss I says that was 
wrong and that it was affordable with or without  the bonus. 
Ref: DRN32503234There were then numerous delays because Nationwide requested  further information about  
Miss Is income and so messages went back and forth with her broker. This meant  that the 
original mortgage  application expired. A second  valuation had to be made  but the property 
was found by the surveyor  not to be a suitable  security.
Miss I requested that a third valuation  be carried  out. Nationwide  arranged  for this to take 
place and the third valuation  said the property was suitable security for Nationwide to lend 
on. But in the meantime,  Miss Is broker had cancelled the application.  
Miss I says its not correct  that the shares  bonus  was dependent on the share price at the 
time of sale and could  fluctuate. She says she was paid what  she was entitled  to after tax 
and there  was no fluctuation in her bonus payment in shares.  But I dont think  thats the 
point. The point is that the value  of the shares  could fluctuate before they were  converted 
into cash which could be used for mortgage  repayments.
I dont agree that Nationwide should  have simply  told Miss I that her bonus wasnt accepted. 
I think it acted fairly in assessing her bonus on an individual basis and agreeing  to accept 
part of it in its affordability calculation. Nor do I agree that Nationwide  unreasonably held 
Miss I responsible for her employers actions  and penalised her for its policies and 
procedures. It may be that there would have been  no issue if her employer had paid her full 
bonus via PAYE code:  but the fact that it didnt  wasnt seen by Nationwide to have been her 
fault. Its not Nationwides policy to accept  a bonus  awarded in shares to support the 
mortgage or as income.
Its a matter for the lender  what evidence it requires of an applicants  income. I dont  
consider Nationwide acted unfairly towards Miss I by requiring confirmation from her 
employer of her pay increase in addition to payslips.  Miss I suggests Nationwides 
underwriter thought she was forging a document but Ive seen no evidence of that.
She also accuses Nationwide of discriminating against her but doesnt  say on what basis.
I consider Nationwide was entitled to rely on the surveyors valuations  and Im not persuaded 
that it should itself have  investigated why a flat in that area was risky, or looked  at recent 
sales. Those were matters for the surveyor. 
But I do agree  that Nationwide  could  have done  more, such  as sending a third surveyor  of its 
own accord or questioning both surveyors about the contradiction, instead of waiting for 
Miss I to raise a formal  complaint. For those  failings the investigator recommended  
Nationwide pay £150 compensation which I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Otherwise, Im not persuaded that Nationwide caused culpable delays which  would justify  
requiring it to pay the fees of Miss Is broker or the additional interest payable  to her existing 
lender. 
Miss I says the local authority had approved her taking out £33,000.00  against her 
property. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade  me that this was money which  she 
lost as a result of any action by Nationwide. I dont consider theres any basis  for requiring 
Nationwide to pay £33,000.00 on account  of lost equity.
Ref: DRN32503235my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building  Society  to pay 
Miss I £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3250323