K820x#14complaint
Mr Y1 complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) voided his motor insurance policy, 
that is cancelled  it and treated it as of no effect from inception in 2017, and wouldnt refund 
the premiums he had paid. He is represented  in bringing this complaint by his father, Mr Y2.
background
Mr Y1 received a criminal  conviction in December 2016. 
In June 2017, and again in June 2018, Mr Y1 renewed his motor insurance  policy  with Aviva. 
The renewal  documents  Aviva provided  required Mr Y1 to disclose any criminal  convictions 
he had received within the previous 5 years.  But on both occasions he failed to tell Aviva 
about his conviction.
In October  2018 a third party made  a fault claim against Mr Y1s policy  which resulted in 
Aviva having  to pay the claim. In the course of its investigation, Mr Y1s criminal conviction  
came to light. In January  2019 Aviva  wrote to Mr Y1 to say that his failure to disclose the 
conviction amounted  to a deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation.
It said that in accordance  with the provisions  of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012, Schedule 1 (S2b) (CIDRA) it had voided  his policy  with effect 
from its renewal  in June 2017,  and reserved  its right to retain the premiums  he had paid.    
Mr Y1 complained to us about this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said information 
about criminal convictions was relevant to an insurer in deciding whether, and if so on what  
terms, it would insure  a consumer. He thought  the renewal documents had made  clear  this 
information had to be disclosed.
Mr Y1 had a number of opportunities  to tell Aviva  about his conviction.  He had two renewals, 
and he also made  a mid-term adjustment before the 2018 renewal  to update  the policy in 
respect of a new vehicle.  So he thought there had been a misrepresentation by Mr Y1, and 
this had been reckless,  that is:
he knew the information provided  was untrue or misleading or didnt care whether it 
was untrue or misleading; and
he knew that the matter to which  the misrepresentation  related  was relevant to Aviva , 
or didnt  care whether or not it was relevant to Aviva .
He said that in cases where reckless misrepresentation had occurred it was fair for the 
insurer to avoid the policy from the inception  of the policies that were affected  by it, and to 
decide not to repay the premium. So he wouldn't be asking Aviva to do anything  different.
Mr Y1 responded  to say, in summary,  that:
he had spoken  to one of Avivas  representatives  who told him £2,000  had been 
reimbursed to him. However he hadnt received this money;
he had asked the representative to forward to him the renewal documents  that 
showed he had deliberately or recklessly failed  to mention his conviction, but hadnt 
received anything;
Ref: DRN36426842he had only been involved in one incident affecting his policy which  was non- fault in 
January 2019,  and was paid by the other  partys  insurer;
he hadnt deliberately or recklessly failed to mention his conviction. His mistake was 
accidental. He pointed  out that, as the investigator had acknowledged, he had 
disclosed a previous motoring conviction  to Aviva when  renewing  his insurance; and
he had never been  sent anything by post or email which clearly said refusing to 
declare any non motoring convictions  would void a policy.
In response to Mr Y1s comments,  Aviva said the information about  £2,000  being  refunded  
was given in error. When looking  at Avivas  system  the representative had mistakenly  
thought a refund had been made.
Aviva provided evidence of the renewal emails being sent to Mr Y1, and the time and date of 
this. It also pointed out that all the information and documents  were  also available to Mr Y1 
on his Aviva online account.
Finally Aviva  confirmed that it had dealt with a claim against Mr Y1s policy in October 2018 
as a result  of which it had paid out £4,676.
The investigator passed this information  on to Mr Y1and  invited him to respond.  But he 
hasnt done so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Aviva made clear in its renewal documents that it needed to know  about 
any criminal  convictions Mr Y1 had. It has confirmed that if it had been aware of the 
conviction it wouldnt have  renewed  the policy. 
Aviva sent Mr Y1 an information booklet  headed Important information and changes you 
need to know  about before you renew  your [Aviva] policy.
On page 8, under the heading Important  Notice  Information and changes  we need to 
know about  it said:
You must also tell us about the following changes:
Criminal convictions for any of the people insured, or to be insured
If the information provided by you is not complete and accurate;
we may cancel your policy and refuse  to pay any claim.
The renewal  invitation  set out the information Mr Y1 had provided when applying for his 
policy. It said it was important for him to check it was complete and accurate.
On the first page  it said:
Youve also confirmed that none  of the drivers have:
received a criminal  conviction in the last five years
Ref: DRN36426843Given all this I think, like the investigator, that Mr Y1s failure  to disclose his criminal 
conviction on two separate  renewals and one mid policy adjustment amounted to 
representations which were, at the least, reckless.
In these circumstances CIDRA provides that an insurer:
a)may avoid the contract and refuse all claims,  and
b)need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it would 
be unfair to the consumer to retain  them.
Aviva has had to pay out £4,676 in respect of the fault claim made against the policy  in 
October 2018, which is more than the premiums Mr Y1 paid for the two years insurance.  So I 
agree its entitled  to void the policy and need  not return any premiums  to Mr Y1.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3642684