K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that MoneyGram  International Limited failed to transfer  money to a relative 
in Ghana for her hospital bill.
background
Mr T tried to transfer  money in August 2018  for a relatives hospital bill for just over £1,000.  
He says the money was sent but his relative didnt receive the money which was later 
returned to him. Mr T says he complained to MoneyGram but it didnt  respond  to his 
complaint. He says he would like compensation for the inconvenience  he was caused  and 
for his call costs as well as an apology.
MoneyGram says it sent the money to Ghana on 20 August 2018 and refunded Mr T the 
same day. It says the agent the money was sent to in Ghana was unable  to process any 
transaction over $500 but says the money  was successfully sent two days later. MoneyGram 
has said it will pay a gesture of goodwill of £14 but says it wouldnt have  known about  the 
agents restrictions.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold  it. The investigator 
thought the problem was with the receiving  agent and thought  MoneyGrams terms and 
conditions made  clear that any collection wassubject to local regulations. He also 
thought MoneyGram  had no control  over any local conditions imposed on agents as in this 
case and that MoneyGram wouldnt have known  about them.  The investigator thought the 
gesture of goodwill was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says the investigators conclusions are contradictory.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mr T will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of this transaction  which I think Mr T wouldve agreed 
to. And I can see that MoneyGram make it clear  that its not responsible  for problems caused  
by local conditions imposed on its agents. Money Gram has also told us that it wouldnt  be 
aware of any local restrictions imposed on its agents  for security reasons.
So I dont  think MoneyGram  made  a mistake by refunding Mr Ts money on the same  day he 
tried to send it as the local agent  was unable to process any payment over $500. I dont think 
MoneyGram wouldve  been aware  of that local restriction but I think it acted fairly by 
processing the refund as well as the fee some  hours  after the transfer  was made. I 
appreciate Mr T would have been caused  some  inconvenience by what  happened but I can 
also see that the transfer was successfully made some  48 hours later.  Im satisfied 
MoneyGram has made a fair and reasonable gesture  of goodwill offer even though I dont 
think it was responsible for what happened.
I can see that Mr T complained to MoneyGram on 20 August 2018 but doesnt appear to 
have received a formal  response at that time. I can understand Mr Ts frustration in those 
circumstances. I think  on balance it likely that MoneyGram took the view that as the 
transaction successfully  went through within a couple of days that it had sorted out the 
Ref: DRN30489452problem. I think it shouldve checked the position first with Mr T but I dont think that mistake 
justifies any compensation.
MoneyGram has said its gesture of goodwill offer remains open  for Mr T to collect and so I 
will leave it to him if he wishes  to accept it. Overall Im satisfied this was a problem caused 
by local restrictions in Ghana outside  the control of MoneyGram and Mr T but matters were  
sorted out within two days.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3048945