K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold them  a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in October 2009.
They say they were not aware they had a packaged account; the terms and conditions  were  
only loosely explained;  and that they would not have agreed to the account  had they been  
made clear.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the URCA had been mis-
sold. Mr and Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Mr and Mrs D were also sold a packaged  account in 2007,  but as already explained by our 
adjudicator, our service  is unable to look into that sale as the consumer had complained 
outside of the relevant time limits. So this decision will only address the URCA that was sold 
in October 2009.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into account  when 
looking at this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say they were not aware theyd been sold a fee-paying URCA or that they 
would be paying  a monthly fee for the account.  However Mr and Mrs D had held an URCA 
previously on another  account not that long before the sale of this URCA.  And 
Mr and Mrs Ds recollections of the sale suggest  that the benefits were mentioned to them, 
albeit loosely. As such, Im not persuaded by their comments  that they were unaware they 
were agreeing to a packaged account  or were  unaware the URCA came  with a monthly fee. 
Furthermore I can see that Mr and Mrs D went on to register  and claim for various  benefits a 
few months after the sale. Therefore I dont think their actions are consistent with their 
testimony that they were unaware  they had a packaged  account which, they say, they didnt 
want or need.
So I think Mr and Mrs D agreed to upgrade their account to a fee-paying  URCA and did so 
knowing that they didnt have to.
Mr and Mrs D say the account was recommended to them.  But their testimony also suggests  
that little detail was mentioned about the benefits, let alone their circumstances or needs.  
Conversely BOS says that it was sold on a non-advised basis, and the evidence  that is 
available leads me to think  that it was more likely than not sold without advice or a 
recommendation being made. This means BOS  didnt have to check if it was right for them.  
But it still had to give them important information about the account and associated  benefits 
so they could decide for themselves whether to upgrade or not.
Ref: DRN36070542Although Mr and Mrs D say they were  given very little information about the account, I can 
see that they were  aware of the need  to (and how to) register  mobile  phones   which they 
did in 2010. And they knew how to make a claim on the mobile phone insurance and the 
home emergency benefit in 2010 too. I understand that the account also offered an interest 
and fee-free overdraft  of up to £300  which was the same amount  as their agreed overdraft 
limit at the time. So I think this was another benefit  they couldve potentially  benefited from.
As such,  I think its clear  that Mr and Mrs D were given enough information to know  what  
benefits came with the account and how to use them. And as Ive already mentioned above, 
I think Mr and Mrs D were aware  of the monthly  cost of the account too. However, I 
appreciate that they might  not have been  given  all of the important information  during the 
sale. But Ive not seen anything about  their circumstances at the time that makes me think  
they wouldve  been put off from agreeing  to it, had they been given even more information 
about the account and associated benefits. 
Indeed, Mr and Mrs D say they didnt want the URCA given that theyd  removed the URCA 
packaged from another account in 2008. However, if it was the case  that they didnt want  the 
URCA, then I wouldve expected  them  to have downgraded their account much  sooner than 
they did  which they were  clearly aware  they could do - rather  than to go on and rely on the 
benefits and keep the account for a number of years.
So having  carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold.
 
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3607054