K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, (BoS),  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr B took out the monthly-premium MPPI during a meeting in 1993, on or about the same 
time as taking out a mortgage. The premiums  were initially about £20 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr B 
disagreed with this view,  the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision.
Because the sale was so long ago BoS no longer has any of the paperwork signed by Mr B, 
nor does it have a copy of the terms and conditions of the actual policy that was in use at the 
time. So Ive made my decision on the basis of the information that I do have and what  we 
know generally about MPPI policies. Ive also looked  at the earliest policy that BoS has been 
able to send to us. This was in use some  two years after the MPPI was sold to Mr B. And I 
think that its reasonable to assume  that Mr Bs policy  didnt differ materially  from this.
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr B, but Ive decided not to uphold  his 
complaint. I explain why below.
Understandably after so long, neither party has been able to give us much  detail about how 
the policy was sold. But BoS has told us that Mr B said that its agent said things like: its for 
your own good, for peace of mind,  to give your partner peace  of mind; no financial worries. 
So I think BoS probably encouraged him to have the MPPI. But in the absence  of any more  
persuasive evidence,  I dont think that I can fairly  and reasonably  say that this amounted to 
BoS telling  Mr M that he had to take the policy. Nor that BoS put unfair pressure on Mr B to 
take it. So on balance  I find that it is likely that Mr B knew that the MPPI was optional and 
that he chose  to take it.
BoS recommended Mr B to take the policy. This means that it ought to have taken  
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for his needs. I dont know  what  steps BoS 
actually took.  But in any event I find that the policy was suitable for Mr B. I say this because,  
knowing what I do about Mr Bs circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of 
the policy to which Ive referred earlier:
I think it is likely that Mr B would have been eligible for the MPPI;
Mr B was unlikely to have been  adversely affected by any of the policys main  restrictions 
and limitations  such as any relating to someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN31980152Mr B has told us that he was entitled to statutory sick pay but had no savings or other 
insurance to help him make his mortgage  repayments had he not been working. But, 
following a successful  claim, the policy  would  probably have paid out for up to 12 months 
had Mr B been off work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment. These 
payments would have  been in addition to any sick or redundancy payments Mr B would 
have received from his employment,  leaving these available  to help him meet his other 
expenses while he wasnt working.  So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to 
Mr B;
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr B couldnt afford the premiums  for the 
insurance. In any event, as it was paid for monthly,  had he later felt that the policy was 
unaffordable for him or that he no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled  it at any time 
without further  cost.
Its possible that BoS didnt tell Mr B everything that it ought to have about the MPPI, so that 
he could make an informed decision whether  he wanted to take it or not. Mr B says it didnt, 
and he may well be right. But as Ive concluded that he seems to have wanted this type of 
cover and that it could  have been useful to him, I dont think that clearer information would 
have changed  Mr Bs mind and stopped  him buying it. I say this particularly  bearing  in mind 
the serious consequences that may have arisen  had Mr B been unable  to make his monthly  
mortgage payments,  which were  secured  on his home. This means that Mr B hasnt lost out 
because of anything  that may have been wrong with BoS  sales process. So theres  nothing  
that I require  it to put right.
As Ive said earlier, Ive considered everything that Mr B has said or sent to us, including:
That BoS has made a settlement with him in respect of one or more other MPPI policies 
he took out with it. I have no details about any of Mr Bs other  policies and the 
circumstances of their sale to Mr B. But in any event Im required to make my decision 
here on the facts  and surrounding circumstances of this particular complaint. And what  
may have happened  in respect  of other policies has no bearing  on this;
Mr B has told us that he had an endowment policy. But that is quite a different  type of 
insurance. And I cant reasonably conclude that Mr B would have wanted to realise its 
cash value to help him pay his mortgage for what might have been quite a short period 
while he wasnt working;
Mr B complains  that BoS didnt check that he needed the MPPI when he changed jobs 
and that the insurers refused a claim he made. But my decision relates only to whether  
the policy was mis-sold and not to matters  arising once it was in place. If Mr B wishes to 
pursue these other matters it is still open  for him to do so by making a new complaint or 
complaints. The fact he may have later had a claim declined  doesnt in my view mean 
the policy was unfit for purpose from the start, as he suggests;
The refused  claim referred  to above apparently related to a medical condition that Mr B 
suffered. Had he known about this condition at the time of the MPPI  sale I would have 
had to take it into account when deciding whether the policy  had been  mis-sold. This is 
because there were likely to have been restrictions on the basis  on which  the policy 
would have paid out had Mr B been  off work  because of it. And I would have had to 
consider whether BoS pointed this out to Mr B and, if it hadnt,  whether this might have 
affected Mr Bs decision to take the policy. However, Mr B has told us that he didnt  have 
the condition at the time of the sale. So it has no bearing on my decision. 
Ref: DRN31980153For the reasons  Ive given none  of Mr Bs above points nor his other comments  affect  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3198015