K820x#14complaint
Ms Ws complaint is that Santander UK Plc recommended her investment of £51,509 in an 
unsuitable corporate bond  the Santander Sterling Corporate Bond Fund (the fund)   
around May 2011.
background
As part of the investment, £10,680  was wrapped  in an Individual  Savings Account (ISA), 
which appears to have served  the purpose  of using Ms Ws ISA allowance for the 2011/2012 
year. A suitability  letter/report  was sent to Ms W on 13 May 2011 and a summary  of its main 
contents is as follows:
Reference is made to a Fact Find document that the author said had been agreed 
with Ms W during an earlier meeting on 27 April 2011.
Reference is made to an agreement  for a financial review in May 2012.
Reference is made to Ms Ws additional  income objective, her low risk profile, her 
cash reserve (outside the investment)  of around  £23,000 (about 30% of her total 
savings), her debt free status and her basic rate tax payer status.
Reference is made to the categories  for Santanders product range, to the 
recommendation of the fund (based on Ms Ws circumstances and objective) and to 
Ms W receiving  standard documentation about  Santander (such as its terms of 
business) and about the fund (such  as its key features and risk factors).
In May 2018  Ms W complained to Santander. The context for the complaint related to the 
funds performance  she referred  to its value of around £39,000  at the time despite her 
investment of £51,509 seven years previously  and to her assertion that, overall, the fund 
was unsuitable.  In the main, she said her points were as follows:
Her risk profile was wrongly assessed and the fund lacked  diversification.  It was 
wholly based in bonds, whereas if she had been properly informed she considers  that 
she had the requisite  risk profile to undertake a mixed asset investment.
She did not need income at the time, so the fund was unsuitable  in this respect. To 
compound matters, she was advised by Santander  to make a capital withdrawal of 
£4,388 in 2013 and she followed  that with a withdrawal of £5,000 thereafter. She did 
not need these withdrawals and she was not told they would  cause a negative impact 
upon growth of her fund, which they did.
She was not told of the need  to take independent  advice for whole-of-market options, 
instead Santander limited its advice to its own products. In addition, during reviews in 
2013 and 2016  she was not advised  to fund her ISA in order  to make  her investment 
tax free over three to four years.
She was a non-tax payer at the time and she was not told that the fund would pay 
interest that was liable to income tax and that would  create  additional income (which 
was unnecessary, as income was not her objective) which moved her into a basic  
rate tax payer status. Had she known this, she would never have agreed to draw  
income from the fund.  In addition,  she was not told of the need  to declare the gross 
income payments  to HMRC, as a result she had seven years  worth of tax arrears.
[Upon referral of the complaint to this service, Ms W elaborated to say she did not receive 
annual reviews for the fund; that in 2012 she was left without any guidance  or advice  for the 
fund because Santander withdrew its branch advice service; and that she was a cautious 
investor and she should have been  placed  in a mixed asset  fund but Santander did not offer 
Ref: DRN38431312such a fund for a cautious investor  so she was placed into the corporate bond.  Her 
representative in the complaint to us also summarised the issues  into three  key points  lack 
of diversification in the fund; unsuitable  advice to withdraw capital; and lack of annual 
reviews in the context  of transferring the fund into her ISA.]
Santander disputes the complaint. Its position, in the main,  is summarised  as follows:
The fact find and risk assessment correctly concluded, based  on Ms Ws 
circumstances and responses to risk related  questions, she was a low risk investor.
The fund is based on bonds but there  is geographical diversification within it, with 
investments in the UK and continental Europe.
There are references to Ms Ws need for additional income in the Fact Find 
document and Suitability Report, both were available to her for verification and she 
did not object  to the contents of either document at the time  so the additional 
income objective for the fund was correct.
Its recommendation included use of Ms Ws ISA allowance at the time of investment. 
It also included reference to her as a basic rate tax payer, advice about that tax rate 
applying to income from the fund from outside  the ISA wrapper and advice about 
potential Capital Gains Tax (CGT) in the event that some or all of the fund is cashed 
in. She was not a non-tax payer  as she asserts.
Its terms of business and information about its service, which Ms W was given, gave  
notice about its advice being  based  on a limited product range and not the whole-of-
market range. This would have been  brought to her attention  at the time. 
The Retail Distribution Review (RDR), which was out of its control, led to an overhaul 
of its service and to the withdrawal  of its branch advice service in 2012. It cannot be 
at fault for this. This also serves as it basis to refute the assertion that it failed to give 
annual reviews (such a service was not agreed and it withdrew its branch advice 
service from 2012  onwards) and to refute  reference  to it giving Ms W advice in 2013 
(or thereafter). There is no record of such advice (or review)  in that year and it no 
longer gave a branch advice service  in 2013.  Ms W retained her discretion at the 
relevant times to obtain independent  financial advice.  
In terms of the value  of Ms Ws fund, the recommendation  came with risk notice that 
the funds value and income from it were not guaranteed  and could fall or rise.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld, for broadly (and summarily) similar reasons to those given by Santander.  Ms W and 
her representative disagreed and stressed  the restricted  nature of the advice she received 
and the lack of advice  about the negative impact (on growth) of the capital withdrawals she 
made. The adjudicator  took the view that the fund remained suitable based on available  
evidence, even if the restricted nature of advice was not disclosed. With regards to the 
capital withdrawals  and the issue about  annual reviews  he took the view that there  is not 
enough evidence  to say Santander  advised the withdrawals  or was obliged  to conduct 
annual reviews, especially  after withdrawal  of its advice service.  Ms W retained her position 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She requested  that the ombudsman note and 
address the following:
The conflict between the adjudicators  view and the view of her representative 
(independent financial adviser) which she considers to be of value.
Evidence of the diversification she says her investment lacked but should  have had.
Her submission that the 2013 capital  withdrawal was indeed advised  by Santander, 
because it would  not have been a decision she made on her own.
Ref: DRN38431313She now wishes to pursue a complaint related to an FCA review communication  she 
received about  mis-sold products.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ws Request
I have read the submissions made  by Ms W and note her request for my treatment of the 
four points summarised above.
The diversification and capital withdrawal points will be addressed  below, as part of my 
treatment of the suitability/unsuitability  issue.
The complaint referred  to this service is about  Ms Ws assertion that the fund was unsuitable 
for her  for the reasons  described in the background section above. If Ms W has another 
complaint, in relation to the FCA review communication  she has mentioned, she will need  to 
initiate and pursue  that separately, first with the relevant firm and then through  a referral  to 
this service if she does not consider the matter resolved by the firm. If what she has referred 
to relates to the present  complaint, I address the present complaint within this decision.
I understand Ms Ws confidence in her independent  financial  adviser  and I do not suggest  
that his advice to her does not have  the value that she considers it to have.  However, his 
opinion about  her complaint is precisely that  an opinion. It is not binding upon this service. 
Ms Ws complaint will be determined on the basis of available evidence and an assessment 
of Santanders  regulatory obligation to give suitable  advice.
Ms Ws complaint
I have noted Ms Ws recollection of events in 2011.  I have also noted the documentary 
evidence shared with this service. Ms Ws account  of events appears  to conflict with the 
documentary evidence  in the following key areas:
She says (or suggests) that additional  income  was not her objective. The suitability 
report says it was.
She says she was a non-tax payer at the time of the investment.  The suitability report  
says she was a basic  rate tax payer.
She says (or suggests) that she was not told that income  from the fund had tax 
implications. The suitability report refers  to basic rate income  tax implications for 
income from the fund outside the ISA wrapper and to potential CGT implications in 
the event that the fund is wholly or partially  cashed  in.
I am persuaded to prefer the documentary  evidence over Ms Ws recollection  with regards to 
the issues directly above. For the sake of clarity, I do not suggest any doubt about Ms Ws 
credibility. However, the effect of the passage of time upon accuracy of a witness  
recollection should arguably be taken  into account in evaluating such  recollection. 
In contrast, the passage of time has no such effect on documents  from the relevant period. 
The suitability report is such a document. It was provided to Ms W at the time and I have not 
seen evidence that she objected to or corrected any of its contents   it also refers  to her 
Ref: DRN38431314awareness of the contents of the Fact Find document  and I have not seen evidence that she 
objected to or corrected  the contents of that document.  The implication is that the Fact Find 
and suitability report documents are reliable in terms of an accurate reflection of the 
circumstances around the time of the investment and advice  or, at least, both documents 
more likely (than not) give an accurate reflection of the circumstances at the point of advice.
Therefore, I accept that Ms Ws objective  was to invest for additional income,  that she was a 
basic rate tax payer, that she received (and applied)  advice to use her ISA allowance at the 
time and that she received advice about  both income tax (with regards to income from 
outside the ISA wrapper) and CGT implications  from her investment in the fund. Notice of 
income tax implications would have  been enough to inform  Ms W about the need to declare 
income (from the fund outside the ISA wrapper) to HMRC. The element within the fund that 
provided her with additional  income  appears  to have been suitable as it matched her 
objective at the time.
Ms W says her risk profile was wrongly assessed. However, there  does not appear to be a 
basis for this dispute. Santander assessed  her as a low risk investor. In her submissions to 
this service, she asserts that she was a cautious investor. In practice, both are essentially  
or, at least, arguably  the same. As a cautious investor the implication is that she sought to 
take low risks with her investment. I am not persuaded  that Santander wrongly assessed her 
risk profile, I consider that it assessed  her correctly as a low risk (or cautious) investor.
Ms Ws point  about asset class diversification is a reasonable one, but it does not 
automatically follow that her investment in a fund based wholly  on bonds was unsuitable. 
This point  should  be considered in the context of her case  and circumstances.  It is arguably  
more plausible  (than not) that Santander  reasonably concluded that a bond based  product 
was an appropriately  low risk investment that carried the potential to deliver the additional 
income objective. I do not suggest that it was the only or the better  or the best option in this 
respect. It did not need to be. It only needed  to be suitable. A case  might  well be made that 
another product, with asset  class diversification, would have been more suitable  but that 
does not mean the bond based fund was unsuitable.  Overall and on balance,  I consider that 
it was suitable  despite the lack of asset class diversification  in addition,  I note Santanders 
point that it benefitted from geographical diversification.
Santander gave  Ms W advice in 2011.  It would arguably have been unusual for it to have 
coupled its own advice  with a recommendation to Ms W to consider taking alternative advice 
elsewhere. It was entitled to give and stand by its own advice. It appears that the range of 
products it could recommend was limited. As a minimum,  this ought to have been disclosed 
to Ms W. I consider  the evidence finely balanced  in this respect. Santander has referred to 
information about the limitation being  made available to her. However, it is possible that the 
information was not brought to her attention sufficiently to help her understand that she was 
not getting whole-of-market advice. Nevertheless, the fund was suitable for Ms W. Perhaps a 
whole-of-market alternative  might  have been more suitable for her, but that does not 
automatically mean that the fund was unsuitable.
Like the adjudicator,  I have not seen documentary evidence of the review  and advice  that Ms 
W says Santander gave  her in 2013.  I also consider that there is somewhat of a conflict 
between the complaints reference  to Santander  withdrawing its advice service in 2012   
which is one of the allegations  in the complaint  and then reference to advice in 2013. The 
RDR did require firms to revise their services in order  to achieve better service related 
transparency for customers in the retail financial industry. It was not uncommon  for some 
firms to terminate particular  services  (including  branch  advice services) at the time, as part 
Ref: DRN38431315of their pursuit to comply with the RDR. On balance, I consider that Santanders explanation 
of the withdrawal of the branch advice service in 2012 for this reason is credible and that it 
did nothing wrong  in this respect. 
Ms W was promised  a financial review to take place in May 2012. It is not clear whether (or 
not) it took place,  but it appears to be an irrelevant factor because, in terms of reviews,  her 
complaint points are that she was not given consistent annual reviews  over the years 
subsequent to the investment  during  which she says she would or should have been 
advised on how to transfer the fund into a tax free position within an ISA  and that a review 
meeting in 2013 included  unsuitable advice to withdraw capital from the fund,  which she did 
in 2013 and then appears to have repeated in 2016. 
Santander does  not appear  to have agreed to provide annual reviews over any number of 
years after its initial  advice. Its reference  to the review to take place in May 2012 does not 
appear to have been in the context  of continuing annual reviews   it seems to be more  in the 
context of an isolated review. In addition, Santander exercised its reasonable commercial 
decision  especially given the effect of the RDR at the time  to withdraw its branch advice 
service. I have  not seen  documentary evidence of the alleged review  meeting in 2013 and, 
again, the withdrawal of Santanders branch advice service in 2012 conflicts  with the notion 
of advice in a review  meeting in 2013.
I have weighed this absence of documentary evidence against  the presence of Ms Ws 
recollection evidence.  I repeat  that I do not doubt her credibility. It is plausible that an 
interaction did take place between her and her Santander branch in 2013, as she says it did. 
However, it is the inherent nature of regulated investment advice that a form of 
documentation for such advice would exist  either  from the firm confirming its advice  or 
from the customer clarifying or making reference to the advice. In the absence  of such  
documentary evidence  the suggestion  is that any interaction between Ms W and Santander  
in 2013 fell short of advice.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3843131