K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited allowed her to withdraw  cash  from her credit  card 
account which resulted  in her going over her credit limit.
background
Ms J says Vanquis should not have allowed her to make cash  withdrawals which  resulted in 
her credit limit being exceeded and charges applied to her account. Ms J says Vanquiss 
actions led to her financial  difficulties and negatively affected her credit rating. She would like 
Vanquis to repay all charges applied to her account and pay her compensation.
Vanquis says its lending was not irresponsible or unfair. It says it considered  Ms Js original 
application and credit scored  it. It says it hasnt acted as Ms J says except on one occasion 
in December 2015 when Ms J cancelled a direct debit payment to it. But it had already 
authorised a cash withdrawal as its systems  hadnt a chance to make that adjustment.
Ms J brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis  had properly assessed Ms Js application  and that she had agreed to its 
terms and conditions. The investigator thought Ms J could have rejected the credit limit 
increase and also thought  the cash withdrawal  in December  2015 was allowed due to her 
payment being  reversed.  The investigator concluded that Ms J was responsible  for 
managing her account and that the charges were correctly applied  and that Ms J hadnt told 
Vanquis about any financial difficulties.
Ms J doesnt  accept that view and says Vanquis  shouldnt have allowed a vulnerable 
customer to go over her credit limit in this way. She says she shouldnt have been allowed  
the account in the first place and has provided  a copy of her credit file which  she says shows  
the difficult financial position she was in.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Ms J will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Ms J application for the credit card account and Ive not seen any evidence 
that Vanquis lending was irresponsible or unaffordable. I can see that at the time of the 
application Ms J was in full time employment earning over £20,000 a year and that the credit 
limit was set at a relatively low level of £250.  I appreciate that Ms J had previous financial 
problems but I dont think they would  have meant  Vanquis should  not have approved the 
application. I can see that Ms J managed her account appropriately  at first which I think 
provides evidence that the lending was responsible and affordable.
I appreciate Ms J has provided a copy of her credit report  and says its clear that looking at it 
the lending was unaffordable. Whilst Im sorry to disagree with Ms J, having  looked at the 
credit report  I dont  come to that same conclusion. Ive not seen any evidence  on that report 
that suggests the lending  was unaffordable or irresponsible and I think  Ms Js financial 
difficulties came far later than 2015 as she then appeared to be taking out short term loans. I 
also think the credit report appears to show most  accounts being opened after 2016. I 
appreciate one account, for a relatively small amount, had been defaulted some time ago.
Ref: DRN31256452I am satisfied that Ms J agreed to the account terms and conditions when the account was 
opened. And so I dont  think Vanquis  made a mistake by offering Ms J a credit  limit increase 
to £750. I think Ms J could  have  rejected  that offer if she wished.  I also think  those terms and 
conditions make clear that charges will be applied in certain circumstances for example a 
late payment or by exceeding the credit limit. So I dont think  Vanquis made a mistake by 
making those charges  in these circumstances and acted  in line with the account terms and 
conditions.
The main  part of Ms Js complaint is around Vanquiss decision to allow  her to withdraw cash  
which resulted in her exceeding her credit limit. I accept that took place in December 2015 
but having looked at Vanquiss records Im satisfied that took place  because  Ms J cancelled 
her direct debit payment. And Vanquiss  systems had already recognised  the payment and 
so allowed  the cash withdrawal. I dont think in those  circumstances Vanquis made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  And Im satisfied the problem was caused by Ms J cancelling  the 
direct debit and so I think she ought  to have known by making a cash  withdrawal then a 
charge would have been  made.
I have not seen any evidence on Ms Js account statements that similar cash withdrawals 
resulted in her exceeding her credit  limit. For the reasons Ive explained Ive not seen any 
evidence that any of the charges were  incorrectly applied.
Overall Im satisfied that Vanquis hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. Banks and 
building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically and I can see that Ms J says shes in a vulnerable position. But having 
looked at Vanquiss  records  I cant see that Ms J ever told Vanquis about her difficulties  or 
vulnerabilities. So in those circumstances I dont  think  Vanquis could have helped her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3125645