K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the resolution proposed by Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited, 
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance), in relation  to his claim against it under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2018 upholding the complaint. A copy  is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF) accepted  my provisional decision. Mr F did not. His 
representative said, in summary, that the proposed remedy in my provisional decision is not 
fair and felt that a much greater  award  is warranted  for the reasons set out in its response.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that the 
settlement set out in my provisional decision represents fair compensation.
Mr Fs representative  has provided detailed arguments following my provisional decision, 
which I have read and considered in their entirety. It seems to me that most of the points 
raised were  already  considered by me in the provisional decision. So I dont think there is 
much more to add to what I have  already  said. However, for completeness,  I have gone 
through again here what in my view are the key points  raised  by Mr Fs representative. 
Mr Fs representative  wants  the credit agreement to be cancelled  and all the payments 
made by Mr F returned to him. It has cited some  court judgements in this regard.  
I have considered the representatives submission that the contract should be rescinded. 
I accept that a court might decide that Mr F was entitled to rescind the purchase and 
credit agreements but my role here is to award  what I consider to be fair compensation. I 
can also direct BPF to take such steps as I consider  just and appropriate,  whether or not 
a court  could  order those  steps to be taken.   
In my view, Mr Fs complaint is not so much about the solar  panels themselves but the 
fact that they  were  misrepresented to be self-funding. So removing the effect of that 
misrepresentation would put right the financial impact to Mr F over the term of the loan. 
Further, it is not disputed  that it would cost BPF to remove  the solar  panels. So I dont  
think BPF should be required to do that if it puts Mr F in a position where the panels are 
self-funding. Allowing Mr F to keep  the panels may also enable him to benefit from 
lower electricity bills or FIT payments once the initial 10 year period has expired.
So I remain  of the view that a fair and simple approach  is to arrive at a reasonable 
estimate of the potential  savings (and income) to Mr F from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and simply rework the loan so that he pays  that amount  over that term; 
and he keeps the solar  panel system.  
Ref: DRN37683762Mr Fs representative  has again said that any potential savings should be excluded from 
the compensation calculation and in any case the estimated savings figure based on 
assumed usage of 50% of electricity  generated is too high.
As I have already  said, when a consumer decides to install a solar  panel system, it is 
reasonable to assume that their key objective is to generate electricity firstly for their own 
use, thereby saving  their energy cost. So I consider that to completely ignore this 
important benefit  when arriving at fair compensation is not reasonable.  
It is difficult to work out what  exactly this savings would be. Mr Fs representative has 
understandably compared the difference in Mr Fs usage from the grid immediately 
before and after installation of the solar panels  to consider what these  savings were  and 
has referred to me some data around that period. 
As I noted  in the provisional decision, the Energy  Savings Trust website gives a table  of 
potential savings under  various scenarios depending  on the location and the consumers 
lifestyle rather than a specific percentage. And the RECC website essentially refers the 
consumers to the Energy Savings Trust website. 
Even with respect  to the same consumer, the savings figure  could change  from time to 
time. And when we are considering a period that could extend for a considerable number 
of years determining a precise figure  is very difficult.  
BPFs savings assumption  is based  on how the export FIT income is calculated and 
paid, as set out by the government. The export  FIT income is calculated on the 
assumption that 50% of the energy produced will be exported to the national  grid. So 
there is an implied assumption here that the remaining  50% is used by the consumer. 
Indeed Mr F has been receiving export  FIT from the government, calculated at 50% of 
the energy produced. Given what I said earlier, it doesnt seem unreasonable  to me for 
BPF to use an assumption made by the government when calculating the FIT payments.
I have also already dealt at length the potential future cost compared to the potential 
future benefits. I have  acknowledged that there may be a need to replace the inverter  
sometime in the future  at a cost (currently) of about £800 and there could be some  
maintenance costs.  
On the other hand, the BPFs offer essentially means that the entire  cost of loan 
repayment would broadly  offset the potential saving during the first 10 years. 
Thereafter there would be no loan repayment cost to offset  the benefits. The BPFs 
calculation shows that the cumulative potential benefit to Mr F for the next 10 years (i.e. 
after the first 10 years) would be about  £8,000  and about £10,000 over the reminder of 
the expected lifetime  of the solar  panels.  I appreciate that these are estimates. However  
these figures suggest that the potential  future  benefit to Mr F is likely  be to a lot higher 
than potential future costs.
I also remain of the view that the assumptions used by BPF such  as the electricity price  
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI) do not seem 
unreasonable. I have already referred to the RPI in my provisional decision. As regards 
the PV module degradation rate, in response  to my provisional decision, Mr Fs 
representative has produced a calculation  comparing the likely  electricity generation 
using BPFs  assumption  and its own. This shows that over the 10 year period the 
Ref: DRN37683763cumulative difference is about 300kWh  (BPFs assumed degradation rate being  lower). 
Bearing in mind that these are assumptions, this does  not appear  to me to be significant 
enough to warrant  a change in the calculation. In fact as noted in the provisional  
decision, the actual degradation over the last five years or so appears to be lower than 
that assumed  by BPF.
As I said before, arriving at fair compensation is not an exact science.  And in cases like 
this there  are many variables and some assumptions about future are needed. So, my 
consideration is whether the offer made by BPF is fair overall.  And for the reasons given, 
I am satisfied that it is. 
I appreciate that this matter has caused some  trouble and upset to Mr F. He incurred 
substantially additional cost compared to the benefits he received, and that must  have  
been a distressing experience for him. But I have to bear in mind what I am considering  
here is what BPF did or failed to do, and whether that caused any avoidable  trouble or 
upset to Mr F. 
Mr Fs representative  says that when  it first reported  the complaint, BPF did not deal with 
it in a timely  manner and dismissed the complaint.  However, from the information 
available to me I see that Mr F made  the initial claim in November 2016 and BPF 
provided its response in February 2017. I also note that it upheld the claim and made an 
offer. 
It may be that Mr F did not consider the offer to be adequate  but I am not persuaded that 
BPF did not deal with the claim in a timely  manner.  Having considered the circumstances 
of this specific case I am satisfied that the overall offer currently  made by BPF, including  
its offer to allow the balance to be paid interest free, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. In full and final settlement of it, 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  should:  
(a)allow Mr F to keep  the solar panels;
(b)estimate  the potential savings and income  to Mr F from the panels over the 10 year term 
of the loan and rework  the loan such that he pays no more  than that amount. This means  
essentially updating the calculation BPF has provided to us in its email of September  
2018. 
As I have said in my provisional decision,  there is no need  to replace the electricity 
generation figures used in the calculation with actual figures to date, as BPFs 
assumption slightly favours Mr F. However,  allowance could be made for Mr Fs actual 
electricity tariff if he is able to provide that information;
(c)allow Mr F to repay the loan balance interest free and also give him the two options to  
repay the amount,  as it has offered;
The remedy  requires reworking of the loan as opposed to cancellation of the loan from the 
outset. Also,  I have  not seen any evidence to indicate that Mr Fs credit has been  adversely 
Ref: DRN37683764affected as a consequence  of the loan. But if so, then I consider it fair that the adverse 
information as a consequence  of the loan be removed. 
In the circumstances and subject to the removal of any adverse credit  information as noted  
above, it is reasonable that the loan agreement is not removed from his credit records but 
the records should reflect the correct  position  after the remedy  has been effected.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Raj Varadarajan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37683765copy of the provisional decision
complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the resolution proposed  by Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited, (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), in relation to his claim  against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974. 
background
In late 2013, My Planet  Ltd (My Planet),  a company that supplied and installed  solar photovoltaic 
micro-generation systems  cold called Mr F. Following his meeting with a sales representative of My 
Planet, Mr F agreed to enter into a contract with it to supply and install a solar panel system costing 
about £7,000. He also agreed  to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan with Barclays Partner Finance  
(BPF) to fund this. The panels were installed soon  after. 
In November 2016, Mr F made  a claim  under s.75 of the CCA to BPF through his representative. In 
summary, the representative said that Mr F was told by My Planet that the solar  panels  would  be self-
funded and that the loan repayment would be more  than offset by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income.  But 
that did not happen. Instead, his monthly loan repayments have been much higher than the FIT 
income. 
The representative also said that BPF failed to assess the creditworthiness of Mr F when it provided 
with a loan, and he is now struggling  to meet the monthly loan repayments.  It further said that Mr F 
was told the inverter would be under warranty for 20 years but he received no guarantee that the 
warranty is for 20 years. (Later in its submission to us the representative said that Mr F was promised 
a 10 year warranty).
BPF responded to say, in summary, that it does not agree that the benefits were misrepresented  
based on evidence  available to it. However, it made a goodwill offer to reduce Mr Fs loan balance by 
about £1,800. This was on the basis that the solar panels had not performed  as indicated  in writing by 
My Planet.  
Mr F did not accept the proposed resolution  and brought his complaint to us. Following our 
involvement, BPF made a revised offer to increase  the compensation figure  to about  £3,250.  In effect, 
BPF worked  out what it considered to be an estimate of the potential savings and income to Mr F from 
the panels  over the 10 year term of the loan and reworked the loan such that he pays  no more  than 
that amount over that term.
The calculation showed that the likely  savings and income over 10 years to be £6,275, which BPF 
said would be the amount Mr F will now be required to pay under  the loan. Mr F had already paid 
about £4,800 (as at June 2018) towards the loan. So BPF offered to reduce the current  loan balance 
to £1,475. This meant a reduction of the current loan balance by about £3,250.  It said that Mr F can 
pay the balance of £1,475  interest free. 
BPF also offered  two ways  for Mr F to repay this outstanding amount: (1) Continue to pay the monthly 
loan repayments of about £90 as he is currently doing until the loan balance is paid off or (2) Spread 
the loan balance over the rest of the loan term (67 months as at June 2018). This would bring  down 
the monthly repayment to about £20.
Mr F did not accept the revised offer.  His representative raised several points as to why the offer isnt 
acceptable. It said,  in summary: 
When calculating redress,  the revised loan figure  should only match  the estimated  FIT income for 
10 years.  It says that is what My Planet told Mr F would happen. So BPF should not include any 
energy savings  estimate into the redress calculation. 
Ref: DRN37683766Compensation should  also be paid for ongoing costs Mr F could incur during the lifespan  of the 
solar panel  system. This should include the cost of replacing  the inverter.  Mr F was promised a 10 
year warranty for the inverter. So BPF should honour any warranty claims Mr F may have in the 
first 10 years.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I would  consider to have  been  good industry  practice at the relevant  time.
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 and Section 75 of the CCA, which provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.  Section 75 states: 
" If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor..
As Mr F paid for the solar  panels through a fixed As Mr F paid for the solar  panels  through  a fixed  As 
Mrs F paid for the solar panels through a fixed sum loan, BPF agrees  that Section 75 applies to this 
transaction.  
This means  Mr F could claim against BPF - the creditor - for any misrepresentation  or breach of 
contract by My Planet in the same way he could have claimed against My Planet, the supplier. So I 
have taken Section 75 into account when  deciding what is fair in the circumstances of the case.
  
Section 56 is also relevant.  This says that any negotiations between Mr F and My Planet as the 
supplier are deemed to have  been conducted by My Planet as agent for BPF.  
what happened?
If there  is a dispute about what  happened, I must decide on the balance  of probabilities - that is, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available  and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.   
Mr F says he was cold called and was told that the installation would be entirely self-financing. 
Theres nothing to suggest that he had any prior interest in solar panels before he was approached by 
My Planet.  It is difficult to see why he would agree to the installation of the solar  panels  financed  
through a loan that would significantly increase his monthly outgoings which, he says, has put him in 
financial difficulties. Therefore I think it is unlikely that Mr F would have agreed to install the system 
and take a loan with BPF unless  he was led to believe  that the installation would  be self-funding and 
come at no extra financial burden to him. 
In reaching my conclusion I have taken into account other submissions  made by Mr F. For example, 
Mr Fs representative has provided us with a copy of My Planets sales literature. Mr F doesnt say 
that he was given this particular  literature. However,  I note that some of the statements made  in the 
literature are similar to what Mr F remembers  being told. For example, it refers to the solar panel  
system being self funding and that the consumer  would be never out of pocket. So I consider it 
more likely  that its contents would have featured at the sales meeting.  
Ref: DRN37683767Then there is the action taken by Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) against My Planet. 
As I understand it, RECC administers the renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its 
members comply with the Code.  
The RECC investigated My Planets conduct and in September  2014 determined that My Planet was 
in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which essentially required members not to provide false  or 
misleading information  to consumers).  RECC also found that My Planet was in breach of Section 5.4 
(which was essentially  about  providing  clear  and accurate  information about the cost and benefits  of 
the product sold). 
I acknowledge that what happened in respect of the cases RECC  looked at may not necessarily have  
happened in Mr Fs case. Whilst the RECC Panels  findings are general and do not refer to Mr Fs 
case, the findings  suggest  that there were conduct concerns in the areas relevant  to Mr Fs complaint 
and at around the time he was sold the solar panel system and the loan.   
Given the cumulative  weight of evidence presented to me, I have concluded that it is more likely than 
not that the salesperson led Mr F to believe that the solar  panels  would be self-funding and that the 
savings would  be sufficient  to cover  the repayments necessary under the loan agreement.
was the solar panel system self-funding at no extra cost to Mr F?
The next question for me to consider is whether the solar panel system was indeed self-funding at no 
extra cost to Mr F, such that the monthly savings  he would achieve was sufficient to pay the 
repayments necessary under the loan agreement. 
I am aware  that there is a disagreement as to what exactly Mr F was led to believe when My Planet 
told him that the solar  panels  would  be self-funding. But in any case it seems to me that both parties  
agree that the solar panels werent self-funding over the term of the loan.
In my view,  for the solar  panels  to be self-funding  and come at no extra  cost to Mr F, the savings and 
income he would achieve ought to have been sufficient to pay the repayments necessary under  the 
loan agreement. 
Mr Fs expected  savings and incomes from the solar panels are from:  
(1)generation tariff income
(2)export tariff income and 
(3)savings to Mr F by using the electricity generated by the panels instead  of buying it from the 
energy company.
I see from the available submissions that the expected total return in the first year from the above 
three items  came to about £670 whereas the loan repayments  were about £1,100 a year. 
So Mr F was likely  to be out of pocket  by about  £430  in the first year and that would  broadly  have  
been  the situation  during  the term of the loan.  This means,  even  based  on this estimate,  the 
system  was not self-funding.  So I conclude  that My Planet misrepresented the benefits. 
has Mr F suffered a loss?
Mr F had no prior experience about the solar panel system. He was cold called My Planet. I am 
satisfied that Mr F decided to purchase the system relying  on the representation made by My Planet 
that the system would be self-funding. 
For the reasons  I have  already explained,  I find that Mr F has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation by My Planet. Notwithstanding what Mr F was told, the system was not self-
funding. Mr F ended up paying a significant sum over the savings. And as BPF has equal liability 
for the misrepresentation made by My Planet, I find that it is responsible for Mr Fs loss.
Ref: DRN37683768fair compensation
Both BPF and Mr Fs representative have come up with their own proposals as to how the fair 
compensation should be calculated. Mr Fs representative says that it consulted  the same expert BPF 
consulted in arriving at its proposed redress methodology. Yet the proposals  are quite different. I had 
sight of BPFs expert  report, but not the report the expert produced for Mr Fs representative. 
Nevertheless, I have taken  into account what Mr Fs representative has provided to us. 
Our role is to help settle individual disputes between consumers and businesses providing  
financial  services  - fairly  and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases  of this nature, determining  
fair compensation  is not an exact science. My aim here is to arrive at a fair and reasonable 
outcome  that would put Mr F, as far as possible, in the position he would have been in but for My 
Planets misrepresentation of the benefits,  taking into account his objectives  at the time.
In my view,  Mr Fs complaint is not so much about  the solar panels themselves  but that they were  
misrepresented to be self-funding. So, I dont think that removing solar panels  and unwinding the loan 
would necessarily be appropriate in this instance. Further, it is also accepted that it would cost BPF to 
remove the solar  panels, which could be significant.  So I dont  think  it should be required to do that if it 
puts Mr F in a position  where the panels are self-funding over the term of the loan. Allowing Mr F to 
keep the panels may also enable  him to benefit from lower electricity bills or FIT payments once the 
loan has been repaid. Infact I note that both parties  suggested remedy is to reduce the loan so as to 
make it self-funding but the disagreement is about the extent to which the loan should  be reduced.
savings
BPF says that its offer would  effectively make the solar panels self-funding in the sense that the loan 
repayments over the term of the loan would broadly match Mr Fs potential  savings  and the FIT 
income from the solar  panels. 
Mr Fs representative however says that Mr F was told that the loan repayments would be offset by 
the FIT and so the loan should be reduced to match the FIT. It says that the savings should  not be 
taken into account when arriving at the fair compensation.
Whilst I am satisfied that that Mr F was misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-
funding, it is difficult for me to know  exactly how this was explained to Mr F. 
The RECCs findings as noted earlier  does appear to suggest that at least on occasions My Planet 
may have misled the consumers into thinking that the loan repayments would  be covered  by the FIT. 
On the other hand, in his statement to us Mr F says that he was told at the time of sale that he would 
benefit from earnings in the first year of £668. He was also provided with a Contract that stated that 
the first year returns would be £668. I see from the calculation in the Contract that this figure of £668 
includes not only the FIT income but also the savings  in electricity (assuming 50% usage). This 
suggests to me that the salesperson may have  explained to Mr F that the total return  would include 
the savings in electricity. 
Even if I accept what  Mr Fs representative says, I think that when  a consumer decides  to install a 
solar panel  system, it is reasonable to assume that their key objective is to generate electricity firstly 
for their own use, thereby  saving their energy cost. So I consider that to completely ignore  this 
important benefit when arriving at fair compensation is not reasonable.   
Mr Fs representative has also said the assumption that 50% of the energy generated would  be 
utilised by the consumer  is excessive. It said that both the Energy  Savings Trust and the Renewable 
Energy Consumer Code recommend a self-consumption figure  of 25%. 
I see that, currently, the Energy  Savings Trust website gives a table of potential savings under various  
scenarios depending on the location and the consumers lifestyle rather than a specific percentage. 
Ref: DRN37683769And the RECC website essentially refers the consumers to the Energy Savings  Trust website in this 
regard. 
It is clear that there are various factors  that determine the actual level of savings a consumer could 
make. Even  with respect to the same consumer, that figure could  change  from time to time.  So in my 
view determining a precise figure over a period of 10 years is very difficult. 
As I said, in cases of this nature, determining fair compensation  is not an exact science and my aim 
is to arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable overall. I see that the BPFs savings  assumption 
is based  how the export  FIT income is calculated  and paid, as set out by the government. The export 
FIT income  is calculated  on the assumption that 50% of the energy produced will be exported to the 
national grid. So there is an implied assumption here that the remaining 50% is used by the 
consumer. Indeed Mr F has been receiving  export  FIT calculated at 50% of the energy produced. In 
the circumstances and given  what I explained  above,  I find that in order to arrive at a fair 
compensation figure, estimating potential savings by assuming 50% usage is not unreasonable.
other assumptions
I see that BPFs calculation has assumed the first years  annual energy  generation  to be 2,318kWh 
and then it allows for an annual degradation of 0.5%. However Mr F now has almost five years  actual 
data. So I consider it reasonable to replace the assumed annual electricity  generation  with actual 
figures to date. 
Having said that, Mr Fs representative told us that his solar panel  system has generated 11,896kWh 
over the last five years. BPFs calculation has assumed  the first five year figure to be 11,474kWh, 
which slightly favours Mr F. This is because a lower  generation figure  would  mean the FIT and the 
assumed savings  would be lower, which in turn means the compensation figure  would  be higher. But I 
dont think that it is necessary for BPF to revise the figures in this instance given that the difference is 
not significant and it benefits Mr F. 
I also note from the calculation  that BPF has worked  out the electricity tariff based on Mr Fs electricity 
statement for the period September 2013 to September 2014 which  showed the unit rate of 14.04p. 
But if Mr F is able to provide  the actual tariff to date, I consider  it reasonable to replace the assumed 
tariff with it, and then estimate the tariff for the future years.  
I have also considered the other  assumptions used by BPF such as the electricity  price  inflation, the 
degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). In my view they do not seem  
unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures. For example, the actual average RPI for 
the last five years doesnt seem to be far off from the assumed figure. 
maintenance and inverter  cost
I see from the information provided by Energy Savings Trust that solar  panels  do not need a lot of 
maintenance but usually would need the inverter replacing sometime during the lifetime of the 
panels at a cost (currently)  of about £800. As such I acknowledge that Mr F could have some 
maintenance costs by keeping the solar panels. On the other hand, I also acknowledge that Mr F 
would have some benefit beyond  the 10 years by way of some savings and the FIT income,  which  is 
not factored into the redress calculation.  
It is impossible to know what the extent  of those costs and the benefit  would actually be. However  
based on available  information I think that the potential benefit should  be adequate to offset any 
reasonable maintenance  costs. Therefore  I am not presently  persuaded to make an award in this 
regard.
other issues
Ref: DRN376837610Mr Fs representative has also said that BPF failed  to consider whether the loan was affordable to Mr 
F. As I understand it, Mr F has been able to make the required  repayments under  the loan. So, on the 
face of it, it does not appear that the loan was unaffordable to the extent that he was unable to service  
it. Nevertheless, I consider  that the proposed remedy adequately addresses this. Firstly, the proposal 
considerably reduces Mr Fs loan repayment. Also,  as previously noted,  BPF has agreed that Mr F 
could repay  the balance loan interest free and that if he so wished  pay the loan over the reminder  of 
the term, which reduces his monthly repayment to about £20. 
Mr Fs representative told us that this whole matter has caused  trouble and upset to Mr F. It has also 
said that when it first reported the complaint,  the lender did not deal with it in a timely  manner and 
dismissed the complaint. However, from the information  available  to me I see that Mr F made the 
initial claim in November 2016 and BPF provided  its response in February 2017. I also note that it 
upheld the claim and made  an offer.  It may be that Mr F did not consider  the offer to be adequate but I 
am not persuaded that BPF did not deal with the claim in a timely  manner. 
I appreciate that this matter  has caused  some trouble and upset to Mr F. But having  considered the 
circumstances of this specific case I am satisfied that the overall offer currently made by BPF, 
including its offer to allow the balance  to be paid interest free, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
So in summary:
Arriving at fair compensation is not an exact science, particularly in instances like this where some 
predictions and assumptions are needed. My aim is to put Mr F as close to the position  he would 
have been in but for the misrepresentation, taking into account  his objectives at the time. And at the 
same time arrive at a remedy that is fair to both parties.
For the reasons  explained and subject to any further submissions, I consider that, overall, the remedy 
proposed by BPF represents fair compensation in this case. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I should receive  from either party  by 26 November  2018,  my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld. 
In full and final settlement  of it, I am minded to require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to:  
(a)allow  Mr F to keep the solar panels;
(b)estimate the potential savings and income to Mr F from the panels  over the 10 year term of the 
loan and rework the loan such that he pays no more than that amount. This means essentially 
updating the calculation BPF has provided to us in its email of 24 September  2018 and which  was 
forwarded to Mr Fs representative on the same date - but allow for Mr Fs actual electricity tariff if 
he is able to provide  that information;
(c)allow Mr F to repay the loan balance interest free and also give him the two options to  repay the 
amount, as mentioned  earlier.  
The remedy  requires  reworking of the loan as opposed to cancellation  of the loan from the outset. 
Also, I have not seen any submission to indicate that Mr Fs credit has been adversely affected as a 
consequence of the loan. In the circumstances, it is reasonable that the loan agreement  is not 
removed from his credit records but the records should reflect the correct position  after the remedy 
has been effected.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3768376