  complaint
Mr G complains Erudio  Student  Loans Limited  (Erudio) has unfairly  defaulted his account  
and passed it to a debt collector.  He wants collection activity  to cease and for Erudio to keep 
managing his account. He also asks Erudio reinstate  the deferment option  on his account.
  background
I set out the background to Mr Gs complaint  in my first provisional decision. Following 
further submissions from Erudio, I then issued  a second provisional decision. I explained 
why I thought it was fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Gs complaint in both. Ill summarise  
and repeat the background  and findings here so that all the relevant information is in this 
one document.
Mr G has two student loan accounts  since 1997  when he finished his studies.  He also has a 
consistent history of applying for deferment of his student loans.  This is due to the level of 
his earned income  not exceeding the threshold required for repayments towards his student 
loan to begin.
Mr G explains that he also suffers from debilitating physical and mental  health  disabilities 
and has had to take medication for his condition from around 2010 following enduring 
chronic pain. He has been in receipt of disability benefits since  around 2012.
In 2015, Mr G moved to a new house and says both he and his wife informed the relevant 
financial organisations, including Erudio, of his new details. The new house  was known by a 
given plot number at the time they moved and had a temporary postcode.  He says he did set 
up a mail forwarding provision for a few months  but he did have trouble with post going  
missing or not being received. Although his landline number changed after the move,  his 
mobile number remained  the same.
Mr G says he had no further contact from Erudio  until he received a call on his mobile  from 
a debt collection agency about his student  loan, which he was told was in arrears. Mr G 
was very upset and contacted Erudio to find out what was going on.
Ref: DRN3115137Erudio say they didnt receive  details of his new address and so continued to write to him at 
his previous address. They say they tried to call the given landline with no success and 
although at first said they didnt have a mobile  telephone number, they now say it may have 
been lost when Mr Gs student loan accounts  migrated to Erudio.  In any event, Erudio say 
their main  form of contact  is always by letter as this is a regulatory  requirement.
As they were unable  to contact Mr G and no deferment was in place on his accounts  they fell 
into arrears and following  the issue of a default notice they terminated  his student loan 
account and passed his account to a debt collection agency.
Mr G contacted Erudio following his encounter with the debt collection agency to find out 
why they hadnt contacted him before  taking  this action. He felt he had made  Erudio aware 
of his change of address  but he accepted they may not have received his letter but he had
always retained the same mobile number. When Erudio told him, they only had a landline on 
record he didnt agree as he said they had called him on his mobile before. He was very 
open and honest with Erudio about the nature  of his disabilities  and the way they affected 
him and his financial position and likely  financial position in the future.
Erudio explained  one of his accounts  had been  passed to a collection agency  but they 
retained the other. They said as the accounts had been terminated  Mr G had lost his 
contractual rights and the full amount was due. But, they took into account his personal  
circumstances and agreed to look at a repayment  plan for the account  they had retained. 
They said Mr G would have to contact the debt collection agency to discuss the other  
account.
Mr G was very unhappy with this decision. He explained he has already contacted the debt 
collection agency and they had been very unhelpful. He further explained any adverse  credit 
information could  affect his employment  and so he complained.
Erudio sent the acknowledgement letter of Mr Gs complaint to his new address but issued 
their final response,  in June 2017 to his old address and so Mr G didnt receive  it.
In February 2018,  Erudio telephoned  Mr G to discuss his accounts and he made them aware  
he hadnt heard anything  since he complained. Erudio acknowledged the final response  had 
been sent to the wrong  address. They explained they had returned the account from the
debt collection agency and were looking to set up a repayment arrangement.
Mr G was very pleased that the account  had been returned but he wanted  to apply for a 
deferment of the accounts as his personal  health  circumstances meant  he wouldnt now or 
likely in the future exceed the threshold when repayments of a student loan would have to be 
made.
Erudio said as the accounts had been terminated Mr G had forfeited  his right to the option of 
deferments and needed to set up a repayment plan.  They explained this was the outcome of 
their final response,  they were unable to change it, and so Mr G brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things  for Mr G whilst she accepted there  were  a number of 
unclear areas, on balance; she thought  there was sufficient information to suggest Erudio
had an accessible contact  details  for Mr G which they failed to use. They were aware he was 
moving house and so ought reasonably to have  utilised all contact information at their 
disposal.
Ref: DRN3115137She asked  Erudio to allow Mr G to submit a deferment application from February 2016 with a 
view to confirming  Mr Gs eligibility from that date to the present and his possible eligibility
for a longer deferment period on medical  grounds. If eligible, she thought  Erudio should  
backdate the deferment  to February  2016. It would then be up to Mr G to negotiate  any 
arrears repayment for the period August 2015 to 31 January 2016 not covered by the 
deferment and apply for any longer deferments  he may be entitled  to.
Erudio disagreed with our investigators decision;  they said it wasnt  unreasonable  to expect 
Mr G to have made contact with them after not hearing anything regarding  his student  loans.  
They were  unaware  of his new address  and so dont accept they made an error in sending 
correspondence to the address they held on file. They  say the accounts  accrued arrears 
because there was no deferment  in place and they correctly  terminated the account
following no further  contact or repayment.  Further, as the account  has been  terminated  Mr G 
has forfeited his contractual rights  and can no longer defer  and is ineligible  for medical- or 
age- related write off. They say they cant legally reinstate those rights without prejudicing  
their position  and so they asked for an ombudsman review.
I issued my first provisional  decision  after considering all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
said, having done so, I agreed with the investigators  view and for similar reasons. I 
explained where the information I have is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it 
is here, I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I found the crux of this complaint lies in the fact that Mr Gs account  had no deferment in 
place and so the accounts become due, as no payments were received, the account fell 
into arrears. After no successful contact with Mr G, Erudio terminated the account and 
although it has returned it from the debt collection agency it is unwilling  to reinstate a 
deferment of the account and says it would prejudice its own position  if it did.
I said I thought it was important then to first establish if Erudio is able to reinstate Mr Gs 
right to defer payment  of his accounts. Ive looked  at the terms and conditions  of the credit 
agreement, which although is unsigned  and undated, there is no dispute here about the 
existence of the student loans and Erudio has cited the agreement in its submissions.
I said the first page of the credit agreement says:
The applicable regulations provide for (b) (at our discretion) later commencement or 
deferment of repayments
In addition,  Clause 10 of the same  agreement:  entitles Erudio to:
Grant time or indulgence  for the payment  or satisfaction of any of your liabilities - without 
affecting or waiving its right
These clauses suggest Erudio  has the discretion to reinstate the deferment option  for Mr G. I 
appreciate its view is that in reinstating  an account,  it prejudices  its position but Im not 
persuaded by that view. In reaching  my decision,  I have considered  the merits of this 
individual case alone and so this sets no precedent for any future  cases.
I said I was satisfied Erudio can exercise  discretion  in this case;  the question now is whether 
it is fair and reasonable to do so?
Ref: DRN3115137In looking  at this matter, I took account  of the unusual  and extraordinary  circumstances 
occurring in, around and before Mr G moved  and contact was lost between the parties.
Mr G has been  remarkably honest and frank about his personal circumstances and a 
traumatic event that occurred between 2014  and his move in 2015.  There in so need for me 
to go into detail as Im aware he has been  equally open with Erudio. The events exacerbated 
the affect his disabilities have on his day-to-day living.  He has described  how they affect his 
memory and concentration and his ability to deal with certain situations. This is relevant  
because its consistent  with issues that started  to occur in the management of his loan 
account before he moved address.
Mr G has always deferred his student  loan following  completion of the course. This includes 
a six-year period between 2000  to 2007  when there  were no apparent issues. But, following 
this period, there were late applications for deferment with the longest being for a period of 7 
months. When he filed a late deferment  application in August 2014, the notes  Erudio have 
provided say this was because  he got the deferral expiry date wrong. They  agreed to apply 
the deferment on that occasion but didnt  do so until March  2015. Erudio then backdated  the 
application. On this occasion, Erudio accepted the explanation Mr G gave them  regarding
his position.
Although I havent listened to Mr Gs contact  from 2015, those from 2017  & 2018, which I 
have listened  to, provide an insight into the manner in which Mr G conducts  himself. Whilst 
he clearly explains his personal health position he seems not be asking for a free hand  in 
any agreement reached. On more than one occasion, he accepts he may have forgotten  
when applications  should have been made  but he also explains why this can happen to him 
and reiterates he isnt seeking to get out of any obligations to his loan but perhaps asking for 
some understanding due to his personal  position.
I looked at what  happened after Mr G moved. There is a dispute around the information 
provided at the time.  Mr G says on some occasions he feels sure he notified Erudio but at 
other times in later telephone  conversations  he says there may have been an oversight on 
his part. I also noted when he said he couldnt  remember he was also describing  feeling
overwhelmed and worried by the situation. Erudio say they didnt receive any notification  and 
so there  has been  no error, on their part, in continuing to write to the old address.  Mr G says 
he did send notification but accepts this was by standard  post and not recorded delivery so 
he cant be sure they received it and he had a mail divert service for a few months but again 
he acknowledges he had problems  with the post at his new build address.
But Ive seen  information that Erudio did have Mr Gs mobile telephone number. Erudios 
file notes  confirm in November 2014  they received an email request to call Mr G on his 
mobile number.  The file note is missing a digit but is otherwise the same number he still 
owns.
In March 2015, there are notes regarding several telephone calls and a note showing an 
SMS was scheduled to be sent. Erudio suggest the mobile phone  number didnt migrate 
over when they took over the loan from a third party, but this was before Mr G emailed then
in November 2014 and so on balance  Im persuaded Erudio  had a mobile  contact number on 
at least one of the accounts  they held for Mr G but didnt try to contact  him on it. This is 
further evidenced in one of the telephone  conversations  in February 2017 when Mr G gives  
his mobile telephone number and expresses surprise  that Erudio dont have it on record
when they have called him on it before.
Ref: DRN3115137I considered Erudios statement that in any event the main method of contact is by post for 
regulatory reasons  - they dont accept  an error  was made as they wrote to the address on 
file. Erudio were aware in March 2015  that Mr G would be moving address and so it seems 
reasonable that when  no contact was received from the letters  to that address they would 
attempt to contact him on the given telephone numbers including  his mobile number. Erudio  
have accepted they tried a landline number but there is no record  of trying his mobile  
telephone number. As Mr G has pointed out, his employment can be affected by an adverse 
credit record  and so I can see no reason why he wouldnt have responded to Erudios letters 
if hed received them. I said I didnt  think its fair and reasonable, in the particular
circumstances of this complaint, to say Erudio  met their obligations to contact Mr G just by 
writing to a given  address, irrespective of whether they did or didnt have the new address, 
when they had an alternative  contact  telephone  number they didnt try.
I said I thought it more  likely than not Mr G did write to Erudio with his new address, he was 
in correspondence  with them immediately preceding his house move and hed emailed them  
asking for a telephone call and providing a mobile phone  number  he still uses. I accept there 
is no evidence to show Erudio received any notification  or that any failure  to receive it was 
due to any error on their part. But, I cant fairly hold Mr G responsible as he took all the 
necessary steps  to ensure Erudio could contact  him.
Erudio have pointed  out in the telephone conversation on 28 February 2017 Mr G says he 
forgot about his student loans. Mr G also didnt try to contact them  and they argue must have 
known that he should either be due to apply  for a deferment or provide information  to them  
regarding his personal circumstances so Ive considered Mr Gs personal responsibility in
this dispute as well.
I dont think Erudio  can argue both points they have  raised as one contradicts the other. Mr G 
does indeed say he may have  forgotten  about the loans  or it may have been an oversight on 
his part but I think when the conversation  is listened to in its entirety  he goes on to explain 
the overwhelming personal circumstances he was faced with at the time led to him 
subsequently forgetting  about the deferment of the student loans.
Erudio have argued that at some point  a borrower should know they are due to complete a 
deferment application or provide information  to them regarding  their income. Under  ordinary 
circumstances I would agree, but Mr Gs circumstances  were, by any standards, 
extraordinary and I think a combination of the traumatic  events at the time, the impact of his 
disabilities and medication on his concentration and his need  to avoid as he says Sword of 
Damocles interactions explain why he forgot  or overlooked the student loans until he was 
contacted by a debt collection  agency.
I have  noted the debt collection  agency didnt seem  to have much difficulty in tracing Mr G 
and he engaged with them immediately and then contacted  Erudio once he became aware 
the debt collection  agency were seeking  to recover his student loan.
Mr Gs willingness to engage with Erudio since then and the implications  he has explained  
for his employment suggest had they contacted him on his mobile the accounts wouldnt 
have accrued any further arrears and he would have completed a deferment  application.
I accept Erudio  were not aware of Mr Gs personal circumstances before February 2017, 
but one only has to listen to the telephone  conversations to see how distressing it was for 
him to impart this information and for the Erudio representative to hear the details. I 
commend the empathetic  response  of both the representative and the supervisors who 
Ref: DRN3115137clearly moved by Mr Gs personal  situation  attempted to reassure Mr G they would do all 
they could to assist  him.
I accept Erudio  only became aware  of Mr Gs personal situation  at the time, in February
2017, they have now had the detail retrospectively. Whilst it appears they accept this sheds 
a different light on the situation and have  partly addressed this in returning the account from 
the debt collection  agency - they havent  felt able to alter their stance with regard to allowing 
Mr G to apply  for a deferment.  They also failed to send the final response  letter  to the correct 
address after they had received the information  from Mr G, which  caused  a further delay as 
Mr G wasnt  aware  of the outcome.
Im persuaded it seems more likely than not Mr Gs actions have been adversely affected by 
his physical and mental disabilities. It seems  only fair, reasonable and proper in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint; a business should  consider this - even if it means  
reconsidering decisions taken at an earlier date.
There is also now the real prospect Mr G is facing further health difficulties, possibly reducing 
his income and without  a reconsideration of this decision to allow Mr G to apply for a 
deferment of his student loans he faces  the prospect of being  caused financial hardship by 
having to make repayment arrangements.
Put another way if the decision  to terminate the accounts isnt altered it appears probable 
Mr Gs being penalised as the result  of, in part, omissions, more than likely  caused by 
extraordinary circumstances at the time and the subsequent impact of his disability on his 
ability to manage his affairs. I dont think thats fair and reasonable.
I said I was persuaded  that Erudio accepted the information  Mr G subsequently gave them 
about his circumstances and for that reason returned his account from the debt collection 
agency but I think they should have gone further. Im persuaded there is discretion within the 
terms and conditions of the agreement,  as Ive previously suggested, allowing them to do so 
without any long-term prejudice  to their position.
I said I was satisfied from what Id seen Erudio  had held Mr Gs correct mobile phone details 
from the information its provided to this service  and I consider it more  likely than not it had 
called him on it in the past. Im persuaded they should have done so again within six months  
of the deferral expiry  date,  when they received no response to its letters  and had 
acknowledged Mr G was moving house in 2015.  As the deferral expired in August 2015,  Im 
going to ask them to allow Mr G the opportunity  to apply for a deferment from 1 February 
2016 to the present time subject to meeting the eligibility criteria and beyond todays date if 
appropriate.
If Mr G is eligible,  then Erudio should backdate the deferment to February  2016.  Mr G will 
then need to make  a repayment  arrangement for the arrears between  the period  of August
2015 and 31 January  2016. Erudio should also remove any adverse information from Mr Gs 
credit file.
On a further  point I noted Mr G may be eligible for a 36 month  deferment  due to receipt of 
disability related benefits, in line with Clause 11 of the loan agreement within Education  
(Student Loans)  regulations 1998 and given Mr Gs position this may be beneficial for both 
parties.
Ref: DRN3115137I said I thought it was disappointing, based on all the available information that Erudio didnt 
feel able to alter their position earlier and whilst I accept there are elements here that are 
unclear and contradictory there are also extraordinary circumstances which  it could fairly  and 
reasonably have taken into account retrospectively.  Erudio also sent their final response  to 
his complaint to his old address and this delayed Mr Gs outcome further. On balance, I 
thought this had caused Mr G further  distress  and inconvenience, which  could have been 
avoided and so I said I intended  to award  £150  in respect of that.
It followed that I intended to ask Erudio to:
1. Reinstate Mr Gs student loan accounts  and allow Mr G to apply for a deferment  from
1 February 2016  to the present time.
2. If eligible:  backdate the deferment to February  2016 and remove  any adverse  
information from Mr Gs credit  file.
3. Calculate the arrears accrued for the period  between August 2015  and
31 January 2016  when  the accounts werent  deferred and offer a suitable 
repayment plan after assessing Mr Gs income and expenditure.
4. Pay Mr G £150 for distress and inconvenience.
   I invited Mr G and Erudio to respond.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision and provided  further evidence of his state of health.
Erudio didnt accept  my provisional  decision  and made a number of submissions they asked 
to be taken into consideration.
Erudio say they dont accept the terms and conditions allow  for the account  to be 
reinstated. They assert doing so will prejudice their legal position  and they are unable to 
take a course  of action that will prevent  them  from recovering any outstanding  balance in 
the future.
They argue they have followed all the necessary procedures  and were within their rights to 
default and terminate the account meaning that the full amount is owed and due to be paid 
by Mr G.
They say they have  taken  into account his health  conditions  and as a result,  they have 
returned the account from the debt collection agency and are willing  to make payment 
arrangements with Mr G based  on his income  and expenditure.
They say it is the consumers responsibility to complete a deferment application and provide 
the necessary evidence to them. As Mr G has failed to do this and with no contact they were  
within their rights to default the account.
They also dont feel they have caused  Mr G distress,  inconvenience,  and object  to the award 
in this respect.
I thanked Mr G and Erudio for their responses. I issued my second provisional  decision after 
reconsidering all the available evidence and arguments, including the additional submissions 
made by Erudio to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I  
finished my re-consideration and I wasnt persuaded to change my findings. 
Ref: DRN3115137The crux of this complaint  lies in the decision taken by Erudio to default and then terminate 
Mr Gs account with them. They have  argued  strongly that they have followed their own 
procedures diligently and having done so were  within their rights  to default and then 
terminate the account.  They go on to say that having  done so, irrespective of the new 
information that has been  brought to light, they are legally unable  to reinstate the account. If 
they took this course of action, they would  prejudice  themselves against taking any form of 
recovery action in the future. By definition, the business cant knowingly take such an action.
I said I appreciated and understood the points  Erudio made and I considered them  carefully. 
But I dont agree with Erudios  position. Firstly, I looked at the actions Erudio took before 
defaulting the account to see if they were fair and reasonable. I was specifically looking to 
see if there were other actions that could fairly have been taken, Ive then looked to see if 
that would have  changed  the outcome in any way.
Where there is a long history between a consumer and a business, it follows there is a great 
deal of paperwork to consider. In this case,  Mr G had two student  loan accounts  and so 
there is quite a volume of correspondence. I have looked carefully  at all the letters, 
statements and notices  sent by Erudio.
On 01 June 2016, Erudio sent Mr G a Notice of Sums in Arrears it said:
.This notice is given  in compliance with the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 because  your 
contractual loan repayment(s) are in arrears. This is in regards to loans granted to you by
the Student  Loans Company Limited which  are now owed  to Erudio Student Loans Limited.
It goes on to say:
 As part of condition 4.1 of each of the above  agreement(s) you are contracted  to repay the 
loans in monthly instalmentsthe total arrears due under all your agreements  
taken together  as at your previous Notice of Sum in Arrears on 25 August 2010 was £1.84. 
The total arrears  as at May 2016  now stand at £238.03. This shortfall has given rise to this 
noticeOur aim is to help you clear  your balance in a way that works  for you
It further says:
Default sums and interest...you will not incur and default sums or extra  interest in relation to 
the missed or partly made payments in this notice.
Erudio also issued a Default Notice on 01 June 2016 on both Mr Gs accounts.  The notices 
requested full payment of the arrears of £266.12 and £994.94 respectively by 29 June 2016.
Having looked  at these  documents,  I said I didnt find this a fair and reasonable approach. 
The Notice  of Sum in Arrears says Erudio want to help Mr G clear the balance, that there 
will be no default sums in relation  to the missing payments, and yet on the same day it 
issued a Default  Notice demanding  the full payment of the arrears. In taking this approach, 
Erudio didnt give Mr G the opportunity to take action on the Notice  of Sum in Arrears before 
they issued the default  notice even if hed received it.
I then considered the termination notice dated  30 June 2016, it says:
A Notice of Default was sent to you on 31 May 2016 in connection with your loan 
agreements
Ref: DRN3115137The information within this is incorrect as the default  notice  was dated 01 June 2016.
I brought these points to Erudios attention  as the basis of their approach and inflexibility lies 
within the assertion  to this service  that all the procedures and processes have been followed 
to the letter and this is why it cant alter its current stance, as to do so would be to prejudice  
its own position.
Ive said I dont  agree with the foundation of Erudios argument here. From what  I can see 
Erudio havent  been fair and reasonable in their approach. Even  if Mr G had received these 
notices there  wasnt an opportunity for Mr G to take action in between  the issue of the 
Notice of Sum in Arrears  and the Default Notice. The termination  notice letter  also contains 
incorrect information, so Im not in agreement  Erudio have  followed  the procedures  
diligently. This irregularity in around  how the default was applied  would be enough by itself 
for me to say it was not fair and reasonable that the default should stand and that Mr G 
should lose his right to apply for a deferral  of the repayments. But I have further reasons that 
I have set out below for concluding that the default shouldnt  stand and that Mr G ought to be 
given a chance to apply for his deferral of the loan repayments. 
Erudio seem to be arguing the CCA 1974  prevents an account, once defaulted, from being 
reinstated but they havent pointed to any specific provisions within  the Act. In my view,  its 
an amount outstanding, i.e. the arrears that defaults, not the entire account. If those 
arrears are subsequently  paid, or for any other reason are no longer outstanding,  such  as 
a reinstatement ,for example, I dont  find any provision  in the Act that prevents or 
prejudices a creditor  from reissuing a default  notice in the future.
I should point out Im not seeking to make  a legal point but rather to look at whether its 
unfair or unjust to ask Erudio to reinstate Mr Gs accounts, given the information they are 
now aware of. I havent found  anything  to suggest this would prejudice  Erudios position in 
the future,  especially in light of the fact that given Mr Gs disability and likely  earnings 
potential both now and in the future its very unlikely he will be in a position where he will 
have to pay these student loans at all. It seems more likely that sadly  due to the progressive 
nature of his condition, the loans  will more than likely be written  off or medically deferred for 
a longer period in the future.
On balance I said I remained satisfied Erudio  can reinstate Mr Gs accounts and so I 
looked to see whether  its fair and reasonable to do so. In looking at this point, amongst 
other things  Ive taken  account of the information  Erudio has provided to explain why it 
should not be asked to reinstate Mr Gs account.
Erudio said:
1. I understand you have quoted  sections of the credit agreement for this loan; 
however, I do not feel that the sections  you have quoted are within  the correct 
context for reinstating the account.  The credit agreement advises: -
"The applicable regulations provide  for (a) deferment of repayments if you satisfy  us that
your gross income (ignoring certain disability related benefits) for a month does not exceed  a 
sum prescribed by the applicable regulations  and that your gross  average monthly income  
during the three succeeding  months will not, or is unlikely to, exceed  that sum"
Ref: DRN3115137I said in my view this part of the agreement is in regards to deferring the 
account and not about reinstating an agreement,  which has now been  
terminated.
I said I understand the point Erudio  makes but the evidence Ive seen persuaded me Erudio 
hasnt acted fairly in relation to the deferment  process or followed  its own procedures 
diligently. I said in writing  to Mr Gs old address and attempting to contact him on the landline 
number for his previous  address - but then failing to contact him on the mobile telephone 
number it had, they didnt pursue the only option which would  have resulted in contact. At 
first Erudio suggested it had lost the mobile telephone number in migration but then 
confirmed it had called Mr G on it previously.
Erudio had been told Mr G was moving, both Mr G and Erudio agree about this, it had the 
landline number for his previous address  and his mobile telephone number. It called the 
landline, which was no longer in use but didnt contact Mr G on his mobile  number. I said I 
didnt find this fair and reasonable nor do I accept Erudio can argue it tried one of the phone 
numbers and that was good enough,  given that its usual  approach  and only requirement is to 
write to a customer. In doing so it says it met its obligations and requirements but doesnt 
point to any specific provision to support this claim. If Erudio  had contact details for Mr G and 
they werent getting a response  to letters and demands, Im not sure why it wouldnt try to 
utilise all the information  available to it. I said my view was further strengthened by Mr Gs 
swift response when he was contacted by the debt collection agency - on the same number 
available to Erudio at the time.  I said I was persuaded  had it called him on his mobile 
telephone number, Mr G would have applied for a deferment of his loan and this whole 
matter would  and could have been  avoided.
2. You have advised his deferment  history was consistent but then state there have been 
gaps and delays,  having reviewed the history, Erudio cannot agree that this has been 
constant as has had late and missed deferrals throughout the period of the loan
My decision is limited  to the details  of this complaint. I accept there  have  been  
issues with the deferral  process in the past and indeed I alluded to them in my 
provisional decision but these are not relevant to this complaint.
3. The terms mean that the deferment  period  cant be backdated, even if youre
subsequently able to prove that Mr G wouldve met the eligibility criteria, to do so would be in 
violation of the regulations that govern the loan.
I said this would only be relevant if my decision indicated Erudio werent at fault and were 
giving Mr G some  form of concession. But, in this case the information  Ive seen suggest 
Erudio could and should have done more to contact Mr G on the information that was 
available at the time. I also think had they done so, they would have been informed much 
earlier of the very difficult  circumstances Mr G was experiencing and could have  assisted 
him in applying for the deferral of his student  loans. Given the information he has provided, 
it could also have looked to apply a three-year deferment, which he would appear to be 
eligible.
I note Erudio have challenged the option of a three year deferment for Mr G, as he is able to 
remain in employment.  The basis of a longer deferment period rather  than a medical write off 
a student loan is not centred in his ability to work but in the unlikelihood of Mr Gs income  
exceeding the threshold within the next 36 months. This would be subject  to the provision of 
the necessary  documentation but from what Ive seen this would have applied to Mr G at his 
last deferment  and this remains a possibility  in the future.
Ref: DRN31151374.. Mr G did not receive letters regarding his account as he moved address and did not make
Erudio aware  this is not an aspect for which Erudio can be held liable. Our notes show
Mr G was in contact with us in 2014  and was aware  his account was in arrears and needed 
to defer. We cannot he held responsible if no deferment or payment plan was set up on the 
account. We also cannot be held liable for failures  with the postal  service  and their failure to 
forward on mail. What we can do however is show the letters were sent in good  faith to the 
address we held,  in doing this we can prove  we have upheld  our end of the terms and 
conditions.
Although we have  no obligation to do so, we called  Mr G on the landline number that we 
held. This number had been changed when he moved address but was not provided to 
Erudio. I agree that we held a mobile number previously, however if the landline  number had 
been updated Erudio could have  contacted  Mr G. We had been contacted by email and 
phone previously therefore the balance  of probability would be this was how he would
update his address with us, and can see no reason why he would not have contacted us by 
this means instead  of post when updating his address.
The terms of the loan state -
Change of Address If your address changes then within fourteen  days of that change  you 
must notify  us in writing giving your new address. If you fail to notify us of any change of 
address we are entitled to charge  you with all costs  incurred  by us in finding your new 
address.
As he did not update  his address  or contact number,  Mr G has not adhered  to this aspect of 
his terms and conditions.  Whilst  I appreciate that, he advised  he was moving  address  no 
mail was returned to us indicating that he had moved address. Deferment is a process, 
which our customers invoke  by applying for deferment. If customer  earns  under the 
threshold but still wishes to pay they can do so.
I said I wasnt entirely sure of the point Erudio  were making here,  given my earlier comments.  
There hasnt been any suggestion that Erudio  are responsible for any postal failures. I looked 
to see if Mr G took the necessary steps  to comply with the terms and conditions of his 
account. He did notify Erudio he was moving  address  in a telephone conversation,  I thought it 
more likely than not he had informed them of his new address with other  organisations, 
although I have no reason  to doubt Erudio when they say they didnt receive  it.
He also had a mail forwarding option  but explained as his forwarding address was a new 
build he had experienced problems in receiving his post. So equally, Mr G took reasonable  
steps to provide Erudio with his new address details. But Erudio go on to say the main form 
of contact was by email  and phone and they think thats how he would have informed them
of the address change.  I said I wasnt sure then why Erudio wouldnt use either of those 
methods to contact Mr G. I accept the landline has changed  but the mobile  phone number 
hadnt and so Erudio could have  reached  him on an available contact number.
I said I didnt think it fair and reasonable if a business has three contact options to use two 
of them, both of which pertain to the address  they knew  he was leaving  and then argue that 
was sufficient and met their obligations. It goes without saying Erudio couldnt have been 
aware of Mr Gs circumstances but the point Im making here is that had they used a 
contact number available to them Im persuaded its more likely than not they would  have 
become aware  and Mr G would have been able to apply for the deferment and the account 
wouldnt have fallen  into arrears and been terminated in the first place.
Ref: DRN3115137K821x#15I said my provisional decision didnt ask Erudio to take actions outside of its own 
guidelines or those of the student loan regulations or the Consumer Credit  Act. I carefully  
considered all of Erudios submissions and said I was persuaded it was at fault for a 
number of reasons;  had Mr G received the Notice of Sum in Arrears and the Default 
Notice, Erudio gave  him no opportunity to act in accordance with the instructions within 
the letters. It gave incorrect information  in the termination letters  it issued and it didnt 
attempt to contact Mr G on his mobile telephone number, which  was correct and up to 
date.
Most disappointingly, once Erudio became aware of what  any reasonable individual  could 
describe as a unique  set of circumstances resulting in Mr G having to move address  and 
alongside his disabilities  and progressive health  condition, they have  remained  inflexible 
and unwilling to alter their position. In failing to reinstate  these accounts they unreasonably 
put Mr G in the position of having to repay  student loans he otherwise.  more likely than not, 
would never  have to pay due to his earning potential  and declining  health . I said, on 
balance, I dont  find Erudios approach to be fair or reasonable and so I remain  of the view 
Erudio should  take the necessary  steps  to put things  right.
I said my decision didnt  in any way negate Mr Gs responsibility to provide all the 
necessary information  to support a deferment application but it is my assertion that 
on satisfactory completion of this he should be allowed  the option to defer his student 
loans.
I said with regard to the award for distress  and inconvenience, as I explained in my first 
provisional decision, this reflected the failure  of Erudio to send its final response to his new 
address after they had been informed. This resulted in further delays in Mr G being  able to 
bring his complaint to this service and caused him trouble  and upset for which  Im 
persuaded he should be compensated.
I said I intended to uphold Mr Gs complaint  and Intended to ask Erudio to take the actions 
detailed in my first provisional  decision. I said Id allow  a further  14 days for Erudio or Mr G 
to bring forward any new submissions for consideration, after which  time I will issue my 
next decision.
Mr G accepted my provisional  decisions.  Erudio doesnt accept my provisional  decision 
findings but didnt bring  forward any new evidence. It asked  for clarification  on what  should 
happen to payments due between February 2016  and the current  date.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including  all the additional submissions 
made by both parties. Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
As I havent  received any new information since issuing my second provisional  decision. It 
follows that Im upholding this complaint for all of reasons detailed  above.
Erudio have asked  for clarity on the following points:
what would  happen  to the account  for the payments due from Feb 2016 until September 
2019?
Ref: DRN311513713My decision  is that both Mr Gs accounts  should  be reinstated  and he be allowed  to apply for 
a deferment from February  2016  to the present  time. Should he meet  the eligibility criteria 
and fall below the threshold of when payments become due, the accounts would be in a 
deferred state and he would then be required to complete an annual deferment application 
going forward. As I have  already said I think it would be prudent, as Mr G is in receipt of 
disability benefits  and as he had a progressive medical condition to ascertain if he would be 
eligible for a 3-year  deferment on an ongoing basis.
With regard to calculating  the arrears accrued  for the period between August 2015  and
31 January 2016  when  the accounts werent  deferred and offer a suitable repayment
plan after assessing Mr Gs income and expenditure..An  account  is eligible to default after 
four full months  of arrears  have  accrued  to reinstate this with 6 months worth of 
payments, if the account was reinstated, this amount of arrears would cause the account to 
once again default. 
Im not entirely sure of the point Erudio is trying to get at here. There is a given period 
between August 2015 and the point at which I have concluded the deferment should be 
reasonably backdated to, i.e. February 2016 during which Mr G would be responsible  for 
making payments.  My decision instructs Erudio to offer Mr G a repayment plan for this 
period, as it has similarly done in the past.
With regards to the D&I, the account defaulted due to Mr  G not changing  his address, 
deferring or paying and Erudio following the correct  processes, based on this, we do not find 
providing compensation fair or reasonable. 
The award I have  made  for distress and inconvenience  relates  solely to the acknowledged 
failure of Erudio to send  its final response letter to Mr Gs correct  address. At the point when 
Mr G complained to Erudio they were aware  of his new address and had amended all his 
contact details, but it sent the final response  to his old address and as a result caused 
further delay.  This caused Mr G additional  distress and inconvenience for which I intend to 
award him redress.
my final decision
1. Reinstate Mr Gs student loan accounts  and allow Mr G to apply for a deferment     
from 1 February 2016 to the present  time.
2. If eligible:  backdate the deferment to February  2016 and remove  any 
adverse information  from Mr Gs credit file.
3. Calculate the arrears accrued for the period  between August 2015  and
31 January 2016  when  the accounts werent  deferred, and offer a suitable 
repayment plan after assessing Mr Gs income and expenditure.
       4. Pay Mr G £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3115137