K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained about her score as recorded  in the black  box as part of her motor  
policy provided by Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
background
Miss Hs concern is about her braking score primarily. However, Advantage couldnt identify 
a problem with the data and deemed  Miss Hs driving score to be good.
Miss H believed her score  wasnt accurate. But Advantage couldnt identify any issue. 
However, it offered  to have an engineer look at her box. But Miss H never availed of that 
opportunity. It also explained to Miss H how the scores are calculated. 
Miss H remained  unhappy  and brought her complaint  to us. The adjudicator  didnt think 
Advantage had done anything wrong. Miss H didnt agree so her complaint has been  passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I understand Miss H also hasnt received  any data since August 2018  but whilst Advantage 
offered to have an engineer inspect her box, she didnt avail of that opportunity. Also, I 
understand she cancelled her policy  in December 2018. 
Our role is simply to see if Advantage did anything  wrong. I dont think  it did because it 
checked her box was transmitting information,  and then offered to have an engineer look at 
the box, when Miss H remained dissatisfied.  
As the adjudicator explained,  he looked at the data provided by Advantage and didnt  see 
any anomalies or any evidence of a consistent fault to do with Miss Hs braking scores. 
However, given it then failed to transmit any data since August, the only way to ascertain 
what went wrong then was for an engineer  to examine the box, which Miss H didnt  take up.
So since  there appears to be no anomalies  in the data and since  an engineer  wasnt 
permitted to examine  the box, theres  nothing for me to see how Advantage did anything  
wrong. Since  this is what I would  have expected Advantage to offer Miss H in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate having  your driving scored  in this way may be upsetting but telematics is 
available to younger drivers and those who have only held their licence for a short  time, in 
order to offer cheaper premiums. Obviously, it comes with risks that if your driving style 
ensures the scores are lower you may be charged  a higher premium or indeed  may have 
your policy cancelled. But here Miss Hs overall driving score was good,  although I 
understand she thought her score should have been even better than that. 
However, in the absence  of an engineer checking Miss Hs actual box, Ive no evidence  to 
show the box wasnt working properly or that Miss H was being unreasonably 
Ref: DRN33639632disadvantaged. The only way to prove any inaccuracy, as Miss Hs alleges, is for the box to 
have been examined by an engineer.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3363963