K820x#14Complaint
Ms M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance policy.
Background
Ms M took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for the mortgage  in branch in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms M says she was informed  she was a high risk for the mortgage and would not get one 
elsewhere and therefore shed be paying a small insurance payment with the mortgage. 
Ms M has queried  whether she was a high risk given her secure  employment.
Looking at Ms Ms mortgage  application,  it appears  she was getting a 100% mortgage.  
A lot of lenders didnt offer 100% mortgages, so its certainly true to say that Ms M would 
have been quite limited in other providers that she could  have approached.
The purchase price of the property was £34,495. But by the time Ms M had added on the 
higher lending security  fee of £972.33,  she was borrowing approximately £35,468. As she 
was borrowing more  than the value of the property, I think  its fair to say that Ms M would 
have been considered high risk from a lending point  of view. Its possible that the insurance  
payment Ms M recalls Lloyds talking about was actually the higher lending  security fee (that 
insured Lloyds against any shortfall  between the mortgage and the sale price in the event 
that Ms M defaulted  on the mortgage  and the property had to be repossessed). Certainly it 
fits in with Ms Ms recollection about believing the insurance was a normal payment for 
high risk customers  because she wouldnt have been able to get a 100% mortgage 
without paying  the higher lending fee.
Ms M says she wasnt given a choice  about  the PPI. Looking again at the mortgage  
application form, there is a separate section  for PPI with yes and no boxes to either 
request or decline the policy. Its not a very clear  copy  of the form but Im satisfied that the 
yes box has been ticked. From what we know of Lloyds sales process at the time, the PPI 
was usually presented as optional and the wording  and layout of the form reinforces that. I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different happened  in this case.
I have no doubt  that Ms M has provided  her genuine recollection of events. However, the 
sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Ms Ms memory  has faded 
somewhat. Overall, given  the available evidence, I consider that Ms M probably  decided to 
buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers  doing so.
Lloyds advised  Ms M to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending  the PPI to her it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Ms Ms circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for her.
Ref: DRN37838892Ms Ms employer would have given  her six months  full pay, followed by six months  half pay, 
if she was off sick. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than Ms M would have received full pay for. Ms M has told us that she had two 
forms of savings at the time but couldnt  remember how much was in each account. The 
mortgage application form has Nil next to savings. So I think  that Ms M had a need for the 
policy and could have  benefitted from it. A mortgage  is a significant financial commitment 
and so it wouldnt be surprising if Ms M had an interest in protecting her repayments.
Ms M has provided  details  of a life insurance  policy she was sold at the same time. She says 
she didnt need  this as she had other cover through work.  Ms M says shes  provided details 
of the life insurance as further evidence  that she wasnt given fair and reliable advice at the 
time of her mortgage  application. However,  it doesnt necessarily follow  that if she wasnt 
given fair advice about the life insurance  (and I am making no comment about whether  she 
was or wasnt, because this issue hasnt been  investigated as part of this complaint) that the 
same is true for the PPI. My finding is that the PPI was suitable  for Ms M, so it was 
reasonable of Lloyds  to recommend it to her.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policy  as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Ms M was not affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that she had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind. So she isnt any 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong,  so theres nothing Lloyds 
needs to do to put things  right.
With regard to the life policy, Ms M has been  told that she would need to make a separate  
complaint about  this to Lloyds in the first instance if she believes that it was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3783889