K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car he is financing through an agreement with FirstRand Bank 
Limited, trading  as MotoNovo  Finance  (MotoNovo), was not of satisfactory quality when he 
took receipt of it.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used car in August 2017.  He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. When supplied the car had already completed 47,000 
miles and was nearly three and a half years  old.
In March 2018 Mr B noticed damage  to the underside of the car which he thought was from 
an accident before hed taken receipt  of the car.
A couple of independent inspections were  conducted to establish  the cause of the damage  
and whilst they both noted some  damage  was present neither could say whether the 
damage was there from the beginning or not.
MotoNovo didnt support Mr Bs complaint. They explained that they were only responsible  
for the quality of the car when it was supplied and as there was no proof  when this damage 
had occurred they couldnt accept  responsibility for it.
But Mr B was dissatisfied with their response and he therefore  referred  his complaint to this 
service. Our adjudicator noted  the car had completed 4,000  miles since  the agreement had 
started and she didnt think it was likely the car couldve driven that far if the faults it currently  
had were present  at the point of supply. She noted  that the two inspectors hadnt  been able 
to establish at what point the damage  was likely  to have occurred so she didnt think  the 
evidence she had supported Mr Bs case.
But Mr B disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN35961562The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo are responsible. The relevant law also 
says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all 
the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here 
was around three and a half years old and had travelled 47,000  miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
But MotoNovos responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards. 
Despite a couple of inspections the experts have been unable to conclude that the damage 
Mr B reports  was caused before he took receipt of the car. 
Theres quite a lot of damage  and many areas in which theres  been  overspray  or paint  
drips. The most recent independent inspection notes  25 areas of damage. I accept that 
some of those problems are to the underside of the car or the inner  surface of wheels and 
wheel arches that would not readily  be visible  to Mr B.  
The first independent inspector said that only a few faults would be noticeable to someone 
who wasnt an industry expert. He said the sill damage and a broken air housing  wouldve 
been. Im not persuaded thats entirely the case.  Ive reviewed the photographs of the 
damage and I think there are other  faults that wouldve been obvious to an inexperienced 
eye. For instance the corrosion is clear and some  of the paintwork is clearly  over sprayed i.e. 
on to the indicator.
Im persuaded that its most likely  that if the damage  that is now reported was present at the 
point of supply  Mr B would have  noticed enough of it to raise  concerns at the time.  And I 
therefore think its unlikely  the damage  that the car has suffered, and that appears  to have 
been partially repaired, was present at the point  of supply. 
Having reviewed the findings of the independent  engineers they havent persuaded me 
otherwise. Theyve  not been able to suggest  the damage was there  from the beginning.
Mr B has explained that he couldve claimed on his insurance for these issues and I can see 
the merits in that argument. But Im not persuaded an insurance claim was without cost. Its 
clear, for instance, that any no claims bonus would be threatened. So when taken  into 
account alongside other contrary  evidence  Im not persuaded that this, on its own,  is a 
reason to suggest the damage  has been  there from the beginning.
Mr B has also disputed  the adjudicators finding that its unlikely hed have been  able to drive 
4,000 miles with the car in that condition. I understand Mr Bs position here and its clear that 
paint over-spray and corrosion wouldnt have impeded his ability  to drive the car. But there  
was some damage to the shock absorbers noted and there was a significant  tear to the 
inside of a tyre and cracking to the inside of wheel  arches. I think these issues,  or some  of 
them at least,  would  most likely have come  to light earlier. So I dont think  its most  likely 
Ref: DRN35961563Mr B would have been able to drive 4,000  miles in the car if the faults  were  there  from the 
start.
Overall, Im not persuaded by the evidence that this fault was likely to have been there from 
the beginning and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  in the circumstances to hold 
MotoNovo responsible or to ask them to take any further action.
I understand that the car has now been repossessed as Mr B fell into arrears. Whilst some 
companies will suspend collection proceedings whilst a complaint is in process; others wont 
and we cant insist  businesses do so. Ive reviewed  the default  notice that was served  and 
the arrears stated and Ive taken into account that Mr B hadnt  paid a third of the amount due 
under the agreement. In those circumstances I think MotoNovo were  within their rights  to 
repossess the car.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3596156