K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled  his commercial loan 
accounts. 
In particular, Mr K says the bank is unfairly continuing its recovery  action even though  
payments are up-to-date and being maintained.  Hes also unhappy that it wont release  the 
charge it holds over one of his properties as security, which he now wants to sell.
background
Mr K took out a number of commercial loan facilities between 2007 and 2010, when he was 
operating a business as a sole trader.
Barclays defaulted Mr Ks accounts  in 2012 after he fell behind  on his monthly  payments.  It 
issued a demand for full repayment  of all Mr Ks borrowing, to a total of over £800,000. The 
accounts have  remained with Barclays recoveries department since then.
Mr K has repaid some of his accounts  completely.  He currently  owes around £450,000  
across two remaining  commercial mortgages.  Barclays holds a legal charge over three of 
Mr Ks properties as security, and prior to the complaint it was looking to appoint receivers  to 
sell the properties  to repay the outstanding debt.
Mr K accepts that he missed some  payments to the account back  in 2012. But he says he 
brought things  up-to-date swiftly. Since then, hes completely repaid two of his loan accounts 
and has been  overpaying  on the two that remain. So he doesnt think his accounts  are in 
arrears, and he doesnt think that Barclays  has acted fairly in seeking to call in the total debt 
when payments are up-to-date.
Mr K has also asked  Barclays to release its charge  over one of his properties, so that he can 
sell it to his daughter. He says that the remaining two properties provide ample security  for 
the outstanding debt.
Barclays says that the accounts were correctly transferred  to its recoveries department  due 
to the scale of the arrears, and as the business  that Mr K was originally running (which  was 
to repay  the loans) ceased trading. It says its looked to work with Mr K to find a mutually 
acceptable solution and move the accounts  out of recoveries  but hes not cooperated with 
its requests for information. 
On the release of the charge, Barclays says Mr K was looking to sell the property to his 
daughter for much less than its market  value  which its declined, requesting instead that 
Mr K sell the property for its true value  and use the proceeds to reduce his outstanding  debt.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ks complaint but he didnt think  Barclays  had acted 
unreasonably. He thought  it had been  entitled  to call in the debt after Mr K fell into significant  
arrears in 2012. He noted that the bank had considered  moving the account out of 
recoveries in 2015, but this didnt go ahead as Mr K didnt  provide all the information  it 
requested. Some payments had also been missed  as recently  as 2018. So he thought the 
bank was within its rights to take further action to recover  the debt, and didnt think  it was 
obliged to release any of its security in the circumstances.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He replied to say, in summary, that:
Ref: DRN34935652Barclays failed to follow its own procedures  in 2012, when the accounts  ought to 
have been withdrawn from recoveries as payments were  brought up-to-date. And by 
virtue of the accounts being in recoveries,  possession  action was being initiated 
sooner than it otherwise wouldve been.
Barclays hadnt provided him with appropriate  assistance over the years.  It hadnt  
given him a relationship manager  and it hadnt  advised him as to what  was 
happening  and in particular, why the accounts had remained in recoveries.  Instead,  
the bank had taken advantage of his situation and put him under pressure.
The accounts were  up-to-date, payments were  being made on time and none had 
been missed for nearly a year. So he didnt want the bank to take possession of his 
properties or force him to sell them,  noting  that he wanted to pass them  on to his 
children.
So with no resolution, Mr Ks complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ks complaint in May,  setting  out why I didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  and inviting final submissions from both parties. I said:
Mr Ks complaint can be divided into two main  areas  of concern: one being the banks 
refusal to move his accounts out of its recoveries department and the other being its 
refusal to release its charge  over any of his properties as requested. So Ill deal with 
each in turn.
Barclays treatment of Mr Ks accounts since 2012
Mr K accepts that he missed payments on his borrowing back in 2012. Ive not looked 
at the banks decision to default  the accounts  back in 2012 as I understand that was 
the subject of a complaint made by Mr K at the time. Rather  Ive focused on Mr Ks 
argument that the bank ought to have moved the accounts out of its recoveries 
department once payments were up-to-date, which in turn wouldve prevented the 
further recovery action  and in particular the threat of possession  and sale of his 
properties.
I dont think Barclays was obliged to move the accounts straight out of its recoveries 
department as soon as Mr K had made up the missed payments. Generally speaking  
Id expect it to look at restoring accounts  to mainstream banking when and where 
possible  but there  will be a number of things  for it to consider before doing  so.
Here, I can see from Barclays internal notes that it did consider moving Mr Ks 
accounts out of its recoveries  department  through 2014 and 2015  and back  to branch 
control once the accounts were up-to-date. I also note that in fact, as Mr K says, the 
accounts were actually in credit by early 2015. But in reviewing the position, Barclays  
established that Mr Ks business was no longer trading. So it had queries as to the 
ongoing viability of payments. It also had a number of questions for Mr K as to what  
the properties were  now being used for, and by whom  as well as queries as to 
leases granted  for the properties. I think it was reasonable  for the bank to ask 
Ref: DRN34935653questions about  these issues, and to hold the accounts in recoveries  until it received 
satisfactory answers.
Barclays also explained to Mr K that it would need up-to-date valuations of the security 
properties, a part of its process in considering whether to transfer  accounts  out of 
recoveries. Again I think this was a valid consideration, in assessing  the level of 
security it held for the debt outstanding. I also note that further charges had been 
registered against one of the properties, which wouldve  given the bank cause to 
question both its level of security and the ongoing affordability of the loans for Mr K. 
Looking at the banks notes, I can see that Mr K didnt provide Barclays  with all of the 
information it asked  him for  despite a number of requests through 2015.  He also 
declined the banks request for valuations  to be carried out. Without this information, 
and in view Mr Ks broader circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
bank to have kept the accounts in its recoveries department.
Since then,  I dont think the bank is any clearer on the long-term viability of the loan for 
Mr K. Hes now retired, which prompts further questions over the ongoing affordability 
of the loan repayments. Theres nothing  in what Ive seen so far that would suggest  the 
bank ought to have moved the accounts back to branch  conversations have instead 
moved on to the possible release of security  and lump sum repayment, which  Ill come  
on to below.
Mr K has also said that Barclays failed to keep him informed about what  was 
happening, but I cant see that was the case.  The discussions Ive summarised  above  
took place over a significant volume  of calls and correspondence, evident in the banks 
records. I think Barclays made Mr K aware of what was happening, and what  it needed  
to consider treating his accounts any differently. There was no requirement on the 
bank to appoint  a dedicated relationship manager  to handle Mr Ks accounts.  And I 
cant see what difference that wouldve  made to things, given it was clear what  
information the bank needed  in order to consider how it might be able to assist Mr K.
More broadly, Ive also borne in mind  that given the amount Mr K has been paying to 
the outstanding loans  each month,  it will take him a very long time  around 30 years  
to pay off what he owes. That would  run far beyond the original scheduled end date (in 
about eight years time), and past Mr Ks 90th birthday. So again  I think  there are 
legitimate concerns on the banks part as to the longer-term repayment  of the loans,  
which justify it keeping  the account  within its recoveries department  and, ultimately, in 
taking steps to recover the debt.
I can see that Barclays has taken  other  steps to help Mr K during what has been  a 
difficult time for him. This has included  the suspension of interest and giving him time 
to arrange a sale of one of the properties himself (rather than appointing receivers) to 
raise funds with which  to reduce the debt.
So from what Ive seen  so far, I dont  think Barclays  has acted unreasonably in holding 
Mr Ks accounts in its recoveries department  or in the actions its taken  during this 
time.
Barclays refusal to release its charge
Ref: DRN34935654Barclays holds a charge  over three  of Mr Ks properties as security for the money he 
borrowed. Theres no obligation on it to release any of those charges. But Id expect it 
to give Mr Ks request  fair consideration. Im satisfied  it did that here.
As noted above,  the bank  has been willing to allow Mr K the time and opportunity to 
sell the properties  himself. Barclays would then receive the proceeds of sale and apply 
these to the loan(s)  bringing down Mr Ks total debt. 
The sticking  point with Mr Ks proposal  was that he wished to sell one of his properties 
at a significant reduced price, to his daughter. And that wouldnt be enough to repay 
what Mr K owes (it would  only raise about  a third). So I can see why Barclays has 
rejected Mr Ks proposal.  I think its reasonable for the bank  to expect Mr K to obtain 
the best possible price  for the property   not least as I understand that at its market 
value, a sale would generate enough to repay the full amount owed, and still leave 
Mr K with his other two properties.
I appreciate that from Mr Ks perspective, Barclays ought to have sufficient  cover  for 
the remaining  debt given its charge over the other  two properties. But given  all Ive 
said above about the circumstances  here,  I dont  think I can fairly require the bank to 
give up any of its agreed security to facilitate  a discounted sale to a family member.
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision,  but Mr K didnt. He responded to say, in 
summary, that:
He still didnt think it had been fair to keep the accounts in recoveries when payments 
were up-to-date. A former  Barclays employee had told him this was due to a clerical 
error, while he also suspected it had been  a way of justifying higher interest  rates  it 
had tried to push through a 2% rise a few years ago.
Hed not agreed to the valuations being  carried out because he didnt think he should  
have to pay for them  at a cost of around  £6,000. This wasnt  provided for in the 
contract. 
He no longer wished to sell any of the properties  and was happy for Barclays to 
retain the charges as they stood. He thought a fair settlement would be for him to 
clear the smaller loan balance and maintain payments to the one remaining 
account  which  he said would be covered by rent he was receiving under a lease 
agreement for one of the properties. And he said that would mean hed repay 
everything by the time he was 70, rather than 90 as Id suggested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so  and while Im sorry to disappoint  Mr K as I know he feels  very strongly 
about these issues   Ive not reached  a different  view to the one set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why Mr Ks further  points havent led me to a different decision. In doing 
so, I wont address each  and every point Mr K has made  rather Ill focus on those most 
relevant to how Ive reached my decision,  which I hope he wont see as discourteous.
Ref: DRN34935655Firstly, I set out in some  detail within my provisional decision why I thought it had been 
legitimate for Barclays to keep Mr Ks accounts within its recoveries department.  Mr K 
suspects this was due to a clerical error,  which he says he was told by a Barclays  employee. 
Ive no reason to dispute his recollection of that, but it doesnt follow that this is what 
happened. As I explained in my provisional decision, I think the bank had justified concerns 
as to the ongoing affordability of the loan payments, given Mr Ks change  in circumstances 
and his refusal to provide the information  it was requesting  at the time.  So I dont think  the 
accounts were unreasonably  retained in recoveries,  or that this was due to an administrative 
error.
Mr K doesnt  think he ought  to have been obliged to pay for the banks revaluation of the 
properties that were  held as security. It is common practice for such costs to be passed  on to 
the borrower  and here, its provided  for in the terms of Mr Ks mortgage agreement  with 
Barclays. These say that the bank may require the security to be professionally  valued from 
time to time  and in any event  every  three  years   and that this would be at Mr Ks expense. 
So while I can see how these costs wouldve felt like an additional burden during an already 
difficult time for Mr K, I dont think Barclays was acting unfairly here.  
Mr K also says that the bank held the accounts in recoveries in order to justify  charging him 
more interest. I note that he alleges only an attempt to charge more interest and not that the 
bank actually did so. As noted in my provisional  decision, Ive seen that the bank  actually 
suspended interest  altogether at one point. That said,  I am aware that while the arrears were 
still outstanding,  the bank  did propose  restructuring the lending   to which a new, higher rate 
would be applied. I dont  think there  was anything  wrong in the bank  undertaking such a 
review and proposing  new terms on which it was willing  to lend. In any case, that didnt go 
ahead. If Mr K has more  specific concerns about the interest rate applicable to his loan 
accounts over the years,  those  ought to be addressed  under  a new complaint  so that 
Barclays has the opportunity to review matters.
Much of Mr Ks response focused on his preferred way forward. He says he no longer 
wished to sell any of the properties,  and instead  hoped to settle the smaller loan account 
altogether. Payments due on the remaining loan, he said,  could  then be serviced by the rent 
he was receiving under the lease of one of the properties. He says that wouldnt take him 30 
years to repay, as Id suggested, and instead the loan would be settled by the time he was 
70. And I understand that Mr K wants me to direct the bank to cease any recovery action on 
the basis of this proposed arrangement. 
But this is a different  proposition to the one put forward at the outset of this complaint. And 
circumstances now are quite different from those when these matters  were first raised, not 
least due to the impact  of the pandemic. So I dont think I can fairly require Barclays  to 
accept Mr Ks more recent  proposals, when its not yet had the chance to consider them. To 
move matters forward in that respect, Mr K would  need to get in touch with Barclays directly  
with any repayment  proposals he wishes to make  in an effort to avoid further recovery  
action. Id expect  it to consider such proposals  fairly, taking into account the current  
circumstances of the pandemic. Mr K would ultimately have the right to raise a further  
complaint, should  he be unhappy with the banks  response and/or any further recovery 
action it takes from this point on.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping  for. But in part this is because Im unable 
to act as an intermediary between him and the bank with regard to more  recent  payment 
proposals. My role is to look at whether Barclays did anything wrong in respect of the 
Ref: DRN34935656complaint issues that Mr K referred to us back in 2018. And for the reasons set out here and 
in my provisional decision,  I dont think it did  so Im not requiring it to take any action  now.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3493565