K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  refused to pay her claim for 
water damage caused when a tap was left running in a bathroom sink.
background
I have issued two provisional decisions in this case. 
On 29 July 2020 I sent the parties  a provisional  decision, the most relevant  parts  of which 
are extracted and set out below:
The background  to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision of 9 June 2020,  a 
copy of which is attached.
In that decision  I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold  the complaint about  events in 
2015. That is still my view.
However, I went on to explain why I didnt think Lloyds had done enough to bring an 
important change in the policy terms to Mrs Bs attention in 2017/18. I referred to the letter  
Lloyds said it had sent to Mrs B in 2018 with her policy renewal documents.
In response to my provisional decision Lloyds explained that the changes  to the insurance 
terms and conditions came into effect on 12 April 2017 and not, as it had previously told us, 
in June 2017.
It said that Mrs Bs insurance  policy for the year 2017/2018 renewed on 29 April 2017 and 
the renewal documents were sent to her on 27 March 2017. So the changes happened 
during the notification period.
That meant that the relevant renewal  letter was the one sent in 2017  and not the one sent in 
2018.
The 2017  letter,  which  Lloyds has now provided, has a section on the front page headed 
Important changes to your cover  (in bold print) and the first bullet point says Were making 
some changes to your policy conditions from your renewal  date.  To explain these changes,  
weve enclosed an Important changes leaflet,  to keep with your policy  booklet. Please read 
the leaflet, to ensure this cover is still right for you.
The important changes leaflet is the one referred  to in my earlier decision.
Our investigator wrote to Mrs Bs niece to explain what  Lloyds had said, and sent her copies 
of the 2017 renewal letter.
Mrs Bs niece  said that she thought Lloyds had provided the information too late and that 
such an important policy change should have been  in large  print. She thought  Lloyds should 
have telephoned  Mrs B to explain the change to her.
my provisional finding
Ref: DRN34770012Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my first 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
The information Lloyds  has now provided does make a difference  to my decision. I no longer 
think it would  be fair for me to uphold  this complaint.
I know this will be upsetting for Mrs B and her niece, but I hope they will understand the 
reasons why.
In my earlier decision I said that I thought the wording in the important changes leaflet was 
clear. But I was concerned that the 2018  renewal letter didnt refer to the leaflet which Lloyds 
said was enclosed, and it referred only to improvements in cover  and not to reductions. 
The 27 March 2017 letter overcomes those concerns. It tells the policyholder that changes 
are being  made to the policy. The relevant section is near the beginning of the letter  and the 
heading is highlighted in bold. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to do more than that, or to telephone 
individual policyholders  to explain the changes.
The first change listed in the leaflet is the one relating to removal of cover  for overflowing 
sinks due to taps being  left on and the leaflet goes on to confirm that this type of damage  
would still be covered under the accidental  damage part of the policy.  
Given this, and contrary to my earlier decision,  Im now satisfied  that Lloyds did enough  to 
bring the changes  in policy terms to Mrs Bs attention. Mrs B was aware  that she didnt have  
accidental damage  cover under the policy, because  shed  removed it in 2015. So I think  she 
should reasonably have  been aware that damage  caused by overflowing  sinks wasnt  
covered under her policy.
In the circumstances I can only conclude that it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to decline 
Mrs Bs claim. Sadly, she simply didnt have insurance cover  for what  happened. So I cant 
fairly require  Lloyds to pay the claim.
I know this will be a severe  disappointment  to B, especially as my earlier decision will have  
raised her expectations. Im very sorry about that.
Lloyds has apologised  for its oversight and for the further delays this has caused. It has said 
it will offer Mrs B £200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill and by way of further  apology.  
Where I dont  uphold a complaint I have no power to require  a business to pay 
compensation. So, if my final decision remains the same as this provisional decision  I will 
simply leave it to Mrs B to decide  whether or not she wants to accept Lloyds offer.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Mrs Bs niece  wrote to us on 10 August 2020. She said that the Lloyds policy  booklet was 
too long, and that crucial information was buried  in the small print. She said she didnt think 
the policy was fit for purpose and she said the complaint had taken too long to resolve.
Ref: DRN34770013Mrs Bs niece  wrote again on 14 August 2020  to explain that she had only just seen my 
provisional decision. She then asked for an extension of time to respond to that decision.
Our investigator confirmed that the time to reply  would  be extended to 1 October  2020.  This 
was later extended to 9 October 2020.
Mrs Bs niece  hasnt sent in any further substantive comments, but she has said that she 
doesnt think I should make a decision  until other (separate) investigations have been 
completed.
The matter  has now been passed back to me to review. Ive considered  what  Mrs Bs niece  
has said but I dont  think I should delay this decision further.  Im satisfied that I have enough 
information now to reach  a fair decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and argument to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that it has been necessary for me to send two provisional  decisions in this case and 
Im sorry  for the delay this has caused.
However, for the reasons  I set out in my provisional decision of 29 July 2020 I think  Lloyds 
did enough to bring the change in its policy terms to Mrs Bs attention  and that it was, 
therefore, fair and reasonable  for it to decline her claim.
Lloyds has offered to pay Mrs B £200  by way of apology for its oversight in initially  supplying  
us with the wrong information and for the delays  this caused. If Mrs B wants to accept that 
offer she should let Lloyds know.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3477001