K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2006. Ms M says Loans Warehouse  Ltd mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs M says that she was strongly advised  to take out PPI for peace of mind   and that she 
felt that she had to take it out to make her loan application go more smoothly. But I think  
Loans Warehouse made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago.
Loans Warehouse isnt able to provide a call recording  of the sale,  but this isnt unusual 
given how long ago Mrs M made  her application,  and businesses  dont have to keep records  
indefinitely. But it has provided  a copy of a call script that was in use at the time which  shows 
that its representative would be prompted to point out the optional nature of the PPI, and 
gain proper consent for it to be added to the loan.
I cant be certain how closely this script  was followed when Mrs M spoke to Loans  
Warehouse, but I havent seen anything  to suggest  it did anything differently when it spoke 
with her. And it wouldnt  be unusual for a business  to point out the benefits of having cover in 
place  but this isnt the same as telling someone  they have to take out a policy.
Loans Warehouse has also provided a copy of the paperwork  that was sent to Mrs M to sign 
after the phone call took place. This again shows that the policy  is an optional product  and 
Mrs M has signed to agree to take it. This is separate  to her signature for the loan itself. The 
paperwork also clearly states  that commencement  of this Payment Protection Insurance is 
optional, and not a condition of the advance.
Loans Warehouse didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms M got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible some of the information  Loans Warehouse gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of  her  circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Loans  Warehouse doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
Ref: DRN33870352Ive thought about everything Ms M and her representatives have said - including what 
theyve said about  Ms M using the loan for debt consolidation. They say the type of PPI she 
was sold was not appropriate as it didnt offer flexibility for her should she wish to 
consolidate again.
But looking  at the paperwork  provided, I think that the costs of the policy and its cancellation 
terms were made clear to Ms M  so it was up to her to decide if she wanted to take out the 
policy or not. So this point  doesnt  change my decision.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should  deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where  PPI was sold. 
But Loans  Warehouse Ltd wasnt Ms Ms lender. So I dont  think these rules apply.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  by 21 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3387035