K820x#14complaint
Mrs A and Miss A complain that HSBC  Bank  plc did not respond promptly to letters they sent 
about their mortgage  application. 
In order to resolve this matter they want HSBC to refund the fees they paid to the mortgage 
broker they had instructed.
Mrs A and Miss A are represented in this matter by Mr A.
background
In early 2018 a re-mortgage application  was made in Mrs A and Miss As name  via HSBCs 
website. 
Mrs A and Miss A say the application was made on their behalf by a mortgage broker  they 
had instructed. But the application was not made  via HSBCs intermediaries  channel. It was 
made via its website for customers  to apply for execution  only mortgages.
After the mortgage  application had been  received HSBC wrote to Mrs A and Miss A on 9 
January 2018  at the property address. It sent a mortgage illustration and requested 
supporting information it needed to consider the mortgage application. It also requested 
information it needed to meet anti-money laundering checks. The letter  requesting the 
supporting information said:
Please send us your documents as soon as possible by attaching them  to the enclosed  
checklist and return them to us using the envelope  provided. If you post your documents 
we'll return them to you once the process  is complete. Alternatively, you can take them  in to 
any HSBC branch where we'll take copies  for our records.
In the meantime, if you have any queries, please don't hesitate  to give us a call on ..
It appears HSBC did not receive all the information  it had requested,  so it wrote to them 
again on 22 January 2018,  23 January 2018,  and 19 February 2018. Each letter  provided 
HSBCs contact details.
On 15 March 2018 Mrs A wrote to HSBC. She said she was responding to HSBCs letter 
dated 19 February 2018. She said she and Miss A had made the mortgage application via a 
mortgage broker and all the information HSBC  had asked for had been sent to their broker  to 
pass on to HSBC. 
Mrs A said that she was having difficulty getting in touch with her mortgage broker and 
asked whether HSBC  had received  the information  it had requested and the survey  fee and 
arrangement fee she had paid to her broker. She also asked whether it would be possible to 
transfer the application to another mortgage  broker.
Unfortunately HSBC did not respond  to this letter. Mrs A chased HSBC on 1 May 2018, 
25 May 2018 and 4 June 2018.  
HSBC responded  on 8 June 2018.  It apologised for the delay in responding to Mrs As 
letters. It said that having checked  its records, it could see that the mortgage had been 
applied for on-line on 8 January 2018.  But it said it had no record  of a mortgage  broker  being 
Ref: DRN35394442involved in the application. It explained  that it had not been able to progress  the application, 
because it had not received all the supporting documents it needed in order to consider the 
application.
It said that, as it had not received the information  it had requested, the mortgage  application 
had been withdrawn on 14 May 2018.
It provided contact details for Mrs A and Miss A to use to contact it directly if they wanted to 
progress the application.
It also offered to pay Mrs A and Miss A £200  for the distress and inconvenience the delay  in 
responding to Mrs As letters  had caused.
Mrs A did not accept HSBCs offer. She said that it should have been crystal clear  to HSBC 
that there  was a problem when it received the letter she sent dated 15 March  2018. She 
noted that a survey had been carried out on the property and she asked for a copy of the 
survey report  and details  of all the fees HSBC had received from her mortgage  broker. She 
also noted that it appeared HSBC had received  some of the information  it had requested.
HSBC said its records showed  that the only correspondence it sent was to the address it 
held for Mrs A and Miss A. It said it had not received anything about  their mortgage 
application from a mortgage broker. It reiterated that nothing it had seen or received in 
relation to the mortgage application  suggested a mortgage broker  had made the application  
on Mrs A and Miss As behalf.
It said some  of the information it had requested had been received via its customer portal.  
But it had not received  all the documents required. It noted it had tried to contact Mrs A and 
Miss A by telephone and text as well as by letter. (It appears the telephone number provided  
in the mortgage application for Mrs A and Miss A was incorrect,  but HSBC had no way of 
knowing this at the time.)
It said its offer of £200 was still available if Mrs A and Miss A now wished to accept this for 
its failure to respond  to Mrs As letters.
Mrs A and Miss A remained  dissatisfied with HSBCs response and brought their complaint  
to this service.
Our investigator said she felt that the offer HSBC  had made was fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint. She said HSBC had apologised for the delays in responding to the letters Mrs 
A had sent and offered  to pay Mrs A and Miss A £200 for the delays and poor customer  
service. 
She noted that the delay  in responding to these letters  did not cause the breakdown in the 
mortgage application. The breakdown happened  because information Mrs A and Miss A say 
they gave to their broker wasnt  passed  onto HSBC. As HSBC, had no way of knowing this 
was the case  she said it would be unfair  to hold HSBC responsible for this.
Mr A responded on Mrs A and Miss As behalf. He said they did not accept our investigators  
view. In particular  he said:
Ref: DRN35394443HSBC had accepted that it had not responded to Mrs As letters. He said that if it had 
responded promptly it should have  become abundantly clear to them  very quickly  that 
everything was not as it should have been. 
He said he felt the issue here is not whether  the system of HSBC was right or wrong it is 
fundamentally their failure to address correspondence correctly. Had they made a simple  
telephone call or had they responded to the correspondence  asking  Mrs A to call them  the 
issue would  have been crystal  clear  to all namely  that a broker  was abusing  the system.  At 
that stage both HSBC  and Mrs A could have taken  action firstly to correct  the position  and 
secondly to deal with the broker and obtain  a refund  of fees paid to the broker which was the 
tracker fee plus the survey fee requested.The  complaint is very simply that Mrs A and her 
daughter lost money directly as a consequence of HSBC's inability to deal with 
correspondence sent into them. It is nothing more and nothing less.
Mr A also said that as a survey had been carried out this should  have alerted HSBC to the 
fact that there might be a problem when the documentation it had requested  was not 
provided. 
He said he felt that if HSBC had responded  to Mrs As letters  sooner   there  was every 
possibility that the matter  could have been either clarified or rectified or any wrong doing by 
the broker uncovered  and an evens  chance  of recovery  of funds. And he said he felt that 
whichever way you look at it, in Mrs A and her daughter loosing money  is a direct 
consequence of HSBC's  failure to respond  to correspondence correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mrs A and Miss As positon.  It appears that they were  misled by the 
mortgage broker they instructed and the broker took fees of £2,000  from them for a survey  
and mortgage  booking fee, but did not pass these  fees on to HSBC.  
Mr A says Mrs A and Miss A lost this money  as a direct consequence  of HSBC's failure  to 
respond to correspondence correctly. I agree with Mr As position. Ill explain why.
I note that HSBC wrote to Mrs A and Miss A several times at their home address. It appears 
Mrs A and Miss A received these  letters and replied by return to the letter  HSBC  sent on 9 
January 2018  requesting information it needed to comply with anti-money laundering 
regulations. 
It also appears that some of the information HSBC requested in connection with the 
mortgage application was provided.  But it is not possible to tell whether this was provided by 
the mortgage broker Mrs A and Miss A had instructed as it was uploaded to HSBCs  
customer portal. 
It is not in dispute  that HSBC should  have responded to Mrs As letter  in mid-March sooner 
than it did. I appreciate that Mrs A sent three  follow up letters before she received a 
response from HSBC in June 2018. But HSBC has apologised for its poor service  and 
offered to pay Mrs A and Miss A £200 for this.
Ref: DRN35394444Mr A says that if HSBC  had responded to Mrs As letters sooner than it did both HSBC  
and Mrs A could have taken action  firstly to correct the position and secondly to deal with the 
broker and obtain  a refund of fees paid to the broker which  was the tracker  fee plus the 
survey fee requested.The  complaint  is very simply that Mrs A and her daughter lost money 
directly as a consequence of HSBCs  inability to deal with correspondence  sent into them. It 
is nothing more and nothing less.
I dont agree with Mr As position on this. Even if HSBC had responded to Mrs A sooner than 
it did, it is not clear to me why this would have  made  it more  likely that Mrs A and Miss A 
would have been able to obtain a refund of fees paid to the broker.  From  the information in 
Mrs As letter dated 15 March 2018 it appears the broker had already stopped responding to 
her. So I dont think the broker would have been any more  likely to refund any fees Mrs A 
and Miss A had paid in late March than it would  have  been in early  June.
I am also mindful that Mrs A and Miss A had HSBCs contact details and telephone number 
so could have  called  HSBC or visited a local branch at any time to discuss  their concerns. It 
is not clear to me why Mrs A did not follow up her letter in March  until 1 May 2018  six 
weeks later.  If Mrs A was concerned that her mortgage broker  wasnt contactable and felt 
HSBC could help I would  have expected her to have  chased HSBC  sooner than she did.
I note Mr As comments about the survey carried out on the property, but it appears this was 
a valuation for mortgage purposes and HSBC  has confirmed that there was no charge  for 
this valuation.
I havent seen  anything that suggests  HSBC could reasonably  have been  aware  that there 
was an issue, or that a mortgage broker had submitted  the mortgage application on Mrs A 
and Miss As behalf before  it received  Mrs As letter in mid-March 2018. As I explained  
above, even it if had responded sooner to this letter I dont think this would have made it 
more likely that Mrs A and Miss A would have  been able to get a refund of the fees they had 
paid from their mortgage broker, as it appears  the broker had already stopped  responding to 
them.
HSBC has confirmed that it did not receive  any fees in relation to this mortgage application.
I do understand that this is not the decision they were hoping  for, but I cant  reasonably say 
that Mrs A and Miss A have lost the money they paid to their mortgage  broker  directly  as a 
consequence of HSBCs  inability to deal with correspondence sent into them as Mr A has 
claimed. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
My decision  is that the offer HSBC  UK Bank plc has made is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I simply leave it to Mrs A and Miss A to decide if they now 
wish to accept the £200 HSBC has offered to pay.
Ref: DRN35394445Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3539444