K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that shes being chased  for payment of a debt by Lantern  Debt Recovery  
Services Ltd (trading  as MMF) that she says she doesnt owe.
background
MMF contacted Ms R about an outstanding  debt on three cash  loans that she took out with a 
third party in 2012. It says that the outstanding amount of the loan is £501.70.  Ms R says 
that she had already made payment in settlement of the loan to another debt collection 
agency that owned the debt between 2012  and 2014. She says she doesnt  owe anything.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She concluded that 
Ms R had not provided enough evidence to show  that she had made payment in settlement 
of this debt for the amount she says she had. She says she checked  statements provided by 
Ms R that showed she made 2 payments for small amounts but these did not add up to the 
amount that Ms R says she had paid. So our adjudicator did not uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Ms R responded to our adjudicators view and said that she didnt make 1 large payment but 
made lots of regular small payments that accumulated to her paying  what  had been agreed  
and thinks the loan has been settled.  She has asked for his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive, I will reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities   in other words, what I 
consider is more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the 
wider circumstances.
MMF says that the debt was initially transferred to another third party debt collection agency 
between 2012  and 2014, then more recently to them. It says Ms R still has an outstanding 
balance to pay of £501.70. Ms R on the other hand  says she agreed  to repay an amount in 
settlement of the debt. She says she has repaid what is owed to the other  debt collection 
agency and has done this by many regular payments. She considers the debt to be settled. 
I have read an email in August 2012 between a third party and Ms R where it is advised that 
the amount outstanding would be transferred over to a debt collection agency.  Then  I have 
checked bank  statements  supplied by Ms R from August 2012 to September  2014 and can 
see that she has made 2 very small payments only. I can not see any other payments made 
by Ms R to the first debt collection agency  within these bank statements. 
So, with the evidence that I have  seen, I think it is more likely  than not that Ms R still owes  
the amount that MMF says she owes (£501.70).
I consider that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for MMF  to continue to seek  
repayment of the outstanding debt from Ms R (to the extent that its legally entitled to do so). 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require MMF to stop contacting Ms R 
about the debt,  to waive the debt or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
Ref: DRN38434552MMF has recently offered  to reduce the amount owed in return  for repayment. It is for MMF  
to decide whether it still wants to honour this when both parties discuss  how and when  the 
amount outstanding is repaid.
I do not uphold  Ms Rs complaint and conclude, based on the information  provided, that she 
more likely than not owes MMF £501.70. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3843455