K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt  follow their procedure in trying  to recover  
funds that he lost as a result of a scam. 
background 
In May 2017  Mr M fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 30 May 2017 Mr M made an online payment of £5,453.42. The payment was made  to an 
international bank account and was intended to pay for a villa Mr M had seen on Trip 
Advisor. Mr M made the payment through what he thought was a Trip Advisor  Secure 
Payment page   but unbeknown to him at the time,  the website was fake.
The scam came to light when Mr M lost contact with the fraudulent  company - the real Trip 
Advisor then confirmed  to Mr M that he didnt  have a booking  with them  this was on Friday  
28 July 2017. On finding out that he had been scammed,  Mr M immediately contacted 
Barclays to report the fraud that evening. Mr M has said he was told during the call that, as 
hed made  a payment to an international account, he would need to speak to Barclays  
International Fraud team  he was given  a number for this team, but when he tried to call 
he heard  a message explaining they were closed and only open during  normal business 
hours from Monday  to Friday. 
Mr M has said he wasnt able to pursue Barclays international fraud team because he was 
abroad on holiday from 30 July 2017, but he expected Barclays  would look into things for 
him, while he was away.  
As he hadnt heard anything, Mr M contacted Barclays again  on his return, this was on 15 
August 2017.  Barclays told him that they should  have done a recall on his payment when he 
initially called to report the fraud.  As a result  Barclays didnt recall the payment until 15 
August 2017.  
Mr M was unhappy about this. He thought there  was a chance that his money could have 
been recovered had Barclays followed their correct  procedures. 
Barclays have said they did try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank, but the 
beneficiary bank  didnt reply  they said as theyd  had no response they were not in a 
position to recover  Mr Ms funds for him. Barclays have said that as this was an international 
payment, the recipient bank is under no obligation to reply. 
However Barclays did acknowledge  they could have  requested a recall  to be made on Mr 
Ms behalf  sooner than they did. Theyve said the recall  could  have been  carried out when 
Mr M first reported the scam on 28 July 2017, rather than on 15 August  2017. But Barclays  
added that because fraudsters tend to spend money  within  a few hours of receiving funds, it 
was unlikely that any funds would have  remained,  even if they had sent the recall  when Mr 
M first contacted them.
In recognition of the distress and inconvenience  the delay in requesting  the recall caused,  
Barclays offered Mr M £122   which was made  up of the refund of £72 overdraft charges 
and £50 compensation.
Ref: DRN34989662Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
adjudicators looked into things. She said she thought it likely that, given there was a two 
month gap between the transaction being  made and the scam being reported, the funds 
would have been removed from the beneficiary bank account. And as Barclays  hadnt been 
able to recover any funds,  she couldnt recommend that Barclays should  refund the money 
Mr M had lost. She did however, recommend that Barclays increase the overall amount of 
compensation to £200, to acknowledge the service provided.
Barclays agreed to increase the compensation to £200, but Mr M was unhappy with this 
offer, so one of our investigators  looked into things. 
She contacted the beneficiary  bank  and received confirmation that the payment Mr M made, 
left the beneficiary  account on 31 May 2017  the day after Mr M had made  the payment. In 
view of this, our investigator said that even if Barclays had not delayed in requesting a recall  
 it wouldnt have made any difference and they wouldnt  have been able to recover Mr Ms 
money. Our investigator didnt think Barclays could have done anything to prevent the scam, 
but agreed with the adjudicators view that £200 was fair compensation for the service  that 
Barclays had provided.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators view.  He doesnt think  Barclays  have followed their 
procedures and he has seen other  cases in the media, similar to his, where  customers  have 
had all of their money back.
The case  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Mr M has mentioned that he has seen  other  cases,  similar to his where customers  have 
received full refunds, after they have  been the victim of a fraud. But, each case is different 
and when reaching my decision I can only consider the facts and the merits of this individual  
case.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
Ref: DRN34989663-regulated firms  like Barclays are also required  to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.    
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr M when  he transferred £5,453.42 to a fraudster and when he reported  the fraud, or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
Mr M has accepted that he authorised the transfer of £5,453.42 himself.  Because of this, 
Barclays had an obligation  to follow his instruction. But there  are some situations in which  it 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained,  I consider  that as a matter of good  practice Barclays  shouldve been  on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
Having reviewed Mr Ms statements for the twelve month period leading  up to the scam, I 
dont think the payment  Mr M made  to fraudster was particularly unusual or out of character  
in comparison to Mr Ms normal account activity. Mr M had made  several other transfers for 
amounts in excess of £1,000 (ranging up to over £100,000) and the payment to the 
fraudster, didnt utilise the overdraft Mr M had in place  in a manner that was uncommon  for 
him either. So in the circumstances I dont think Barclays  should  fairly or reasonably have 
made further enquiries with Mr M about the payment before it processed it. 
When Mr M told Barclays that hed been scammed, they didnt act as quickly as they could 
or, in my view, ought to have done  in the circumstances.  Mr M contacted Barclays  quickly 
after discovering hed been the victim of a scam,  and Barclays  didnt contact the receiving 
bank until over two weeks  later. 
Barclays have acknowledged  they shouldve tried to recall the payment much more quickly  
and theyve offered  compensation for delays theyve caused in seeking  to try to recover  the 
funds. 
Ref: DRN34989664But, given Im not persuaded Barclays shouldnt have processed the payment, in order  for 
me to be able to fairly ask Barclays to refund the money to Mr M, I need to be satisfied that 
its more likely than not the delay Barclays caused,  in requesting a recall of Mr Ms money, 
resulted in a loss for Mr M. 
In this case the receiving  bank has confirmed that the money  left the receiving bank account 
the day after Mr M  made the payment, and Mr M didnt report  the scam to Barclays until 
nearly two months  later  so even  if Barclays had requested a recall in a more  reasonable 
timeframe, there still wouldnt  have  been  any funds for them to recover.  
Im sorry  to hear that Mr M has been affected by a scam, and I can understand why he feels  
so strongly about  the loss hes incurred. Barclays has agreed to pay Mr M a further £78 (on 
top of the £122 its already paid him in compensation) in recognition  of the impact its delays 
have had on him. 
In the circumstances I think the amount  Barclays has agreed  to pay in compensation is 
appropriate. While they could have acted sooner to try and recall  the payment, I cant see 
the delay Barclays  caused has led to Mr M not being  able to recover his money.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Im partly upholding Mr Ms complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
I required Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr M £78 (in addition  to the £122 it has already  
paid him) for the material distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3498966