K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs C took out on 14 March 2002. 
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs C disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL have  said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been  able to provide a 
recording of the phone  call or any notes taken  at the time  this isnt surprising  considering 
the sale took place many years ago. So I dont know for sure how PPI was presented to   
Mrs C or what was said. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs C has told us  that she doesnt believe she was 
informed that PPI was added. But I also have to consider  that because  the sale took place 
so long ago, memories can fade over time.  Ive also taken into account what  we know about  
how FICL sold these policies around this time and everything weve  seen in the past. 
I think, on balance,  its likely FICL would have made it clear  that the PPI was optional and  
Mrs C would have been asked for her consent  to the cover. Ive not seen enough to 
conclude otherwise.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI policy  to Mrs C. So it didnt have to take steps to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Mrs C enough  information  about the policy  
to decide if she wanted it or not.
Its likely  the information  FICL gave  Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been 
 including  the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I know about Mrs Cs 
circumstances it looks like it could still have been  useful  to her. And I dont think better 
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it. 
Ref: DRN36037112I say this because  Mrs C says she wouldve received between 3 and 6 months sick pay from 
her employer if she was off work unwell. But the PPI policy would have paid 15% of the 
outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 12 months  for unemployment,  accident  or sickness.  
So it wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay she had and probably for longer. So I think 
Mrs C couldve  found this policy useful  should she have become unable  to work or 
unemployed. Theres nothing to show me Mrs C couldnt afford the policy.  And if she no 
longer wanted  it she couldve cancelled it at any time.
I also dont think Mrs C would have been  affected by any of the main things that mightve  
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical  condition  of 
which she was already aware.
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped Mrs C from buying the PPI. Ive taken 
into account all Mrs Cs comments but these  points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3603711