K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited imposed unfair charges at 
the end of his vehicle  hire agreement. He wants a refund.
background
Mr B tells us that at the end of the hire period  the vehicle was inspected and he was given 
what he thought  were advisories  in respect of damage to a door and a tyre. He says he 
thought there would be a further inspection after the vehicle was returned and that he would 
have the right of independent inspection in the event of a dispute. He said he arranged to 
have the tyre replaced prior to the vehicle  being  returned. Mr B informs us it wasnt until 
more than six weeks after collection that he received an invoice - and that hes been charged  
for work that was not carried  out. He says he believes VWFS have  breached the agreement 
by failing to offer him an independent  inspection and failing to advise him of charges within  
four weeks.
VWFS told us that Mr B had been  made aware of the charges following the inspection of his 
vehicle on 19 September 2018.  It said it had imposed the charges in accordance with the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association Guidelines (BVRLA). And it stated  that when 
Mr B had provided an invoice for the new tyre it had cancelled that charge.  
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought  Mr 
B had been  made aware of the damage at the point of inspection.  Our adjudicator said hed 
seen the inspection report and images and that he was satisfied the damage  was beyond 
fair wear and tear. 
Mr B didnt agree with this outcome and said he received no evidence  the work had been  
carried out. So he couldnt see what the charge was for. As its not been possible to resolve  
this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that its always a matter of concern when unexpected charges  arise at the end 
of a period of hire. So I can appreciate why Mr B would wish to challenge any items he felt 
were unfair.
Where alleged facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I have to make  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide what is the most likely  explanation to account 
for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties  tell us, and 
we look to documentary  and other  evidence to help us reach a decision.
Ref: DRN36725872Ive seen a vehicle inspection report dated  19 September 2018. That report  detailed the 
damage, the means of repair and the estimated cost. At the end of the report  is a section:
Customer Agreement
Customer Response: Customer agrees with reported condition  Signed
Customer Notes:
Mr Bs signature appears immediately below this.
In this case two items were charged  for - a tyre and damage to a door.  Im aware Mr B is 
upset about being charged  for the tyre after he said he told VWFS it had been replaced. But 
as far as Im aware VWFS has no record  of this call - and it was only when he raised  his 
objection to the charge that Mr B supplied the invoice to show  the work had been done. As 
VWFS then removed the charge for the tyre - and also applied a refund  for the early  return of 
the vehicle - I think it acted fairly. So I shant ask it do anything  else over this aspect. 
Ill now deal with the repairs to the door.  Im aware  Mr B says he thought there  would be a 
further inspection  - but I think the inspection report clearly outlined  the findings.  Ive seen the 
photographs of the relevant door and I think its clear it shows there to have  been  an 
unsatisfactory repair. So I think the charge  for damage to the door was justified.
Mr B feels  hes been deprived  of the chance  of having the vehicle independently inspected 
and - if required - the opportunity to arrange  himself for any repair.  But I dont  agree  that this 
is the case.
The damage was clearly identified and Mr B replaced the tyre after the inspection. So I think  
he had the opportunity to have the door repaired at the same time. And whilst he says he 
wasnt made aware of the actual charges until early November - this applied equally to the 
tyre as to the door.  The estimated charges were listed in the inspection report  and were not 
altered in the later invoice.
Mr B has also queried why hes being charged  for repairs that have not been carried  out. As 
the owner of the vehicle VWFS  is entitled  to deal with its vehicle in the way it chooses. And 
theres nothing in either the terms of the agreement or BVRLA  guidelines that requires a 
vehicle to be repaired before charges for damage  are applied. Its more probable than not 
that damage will adversely affect  the resale or auction price  of a vehicle  - so I see no reason 
why VWFS  is not entitled to be compensated for this. I think the charge applied in this case  
was fair and I shant  be asking VWFS to do anything else.
In summary,  I think Mr B was made  aware  of the damage to his vehicle prior to it being 
collected. He had the opportunity to carry out repairs and did in fact replace the damaged 
tyre. As the vehicle was returned with damage in excess of BVRLA fair wear  and tear 
guidelines I think VWFS was justified in imposing the charge in relation to this.
So whilst I know it will be a disappointment to Mr B Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN36725873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3672587