K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about PPI taken out with a mortgage  in 2007. 
Both the mortgage  and the PPI were taken out jointly by Mr and Mrs B and, according to 
both parties, this was probably done over the phone. The insurance was sold during the 
mortgage application process. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs B mainly  complain that the way the policy benefit was split wasnt made clear to 
them. Mrs B has said that it wasnt until she made  a successful  claim on the policy  that they 
realised the full amount of the monthly benefit would only be paid if both she and Mr B were 
off work at the same time. 
Mr and Mrs B dont  feel that the policy was worth paying for, given that each of them  was 
only entitled to receive  a proportion of the monthly  benefit amount. And they say if theyd  
understood this at the time, then they wouldnt  have  opted for the cover  they took out.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 2 October  2019.  
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told so far, at the moment Im planning to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive approached this complaint on the basis that Mr and Mrs B are mainly concerned that 
HSBC failed to make it sufficiently clear  the £800 monthly benefit payable  under the policy 
would be split between  them and not apply separately to each of them.
Ive thought carefully about what Ive seen  and been told about  the way that HSBC  sold 
them the PPI.
In the final response  letter  HSBC sent to Mr and Mrs B it mentioned that its records showed 
that the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B over the phone. Although they thought at one point 
that they mightve taken out the PPI in one of HSBCs branches Mr and Mrs B now seem to 
accept it was sold to them in the way HSBC says. So I think  its reasonable for me to look at 
this complaint on the basis that HSBC sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs B by phone.  
Ref: DRN31672442HSBC had to give Mr and Mrs B good  enough  details about  the PPI for them  to decide if it 
was right for them. So I have to decide  if Ive seen  enough  evidence to be able fairly to say 
that its likely  the way the benefit worked  was adequately explained during the call when 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to take it out. Theres only limited information now available from the 
time of sale.  HSBC doesnt  have a call recording or a call note or even a sales  script  so 
I dont know if or how it explained PPI to Mr and Mrs B. 
HSBC has explained  to us that in the event  of a successful claim the benefit  payable is 
proportionate to the amount of income  the claimant contributes to the total household 
income at the time of the claim.  This will vary with the policyholders  incomes over the life of 
the policy. And having read the policy which they probably bought,  I think  thats right.  
Mr and Mrs B seem  to have a reasonably clear  recollection of what was said about the 
monthly benefit and what they say about  that discussion sounds  credible to me. Theyve told 
us that they were not given any information  about the split of benefit  during the call and that 
the advisor repeatedly said there  was a benefit  of £800. Mr and Mrs B are adamant  that it 
wasnt made clear that they would never receive  this amount unless they were  both off work 
at the same  time. And theyve been  consistent  in what theyve  said.
The mortgage offer they signed  doesnt  explain how the policy  split would work if Mr B 
and/or Mrs B made a claim. It just says Amount  of cover £800.  And HSBC  hasnt explained  
when Mr and Mrs B wouldve been  provided with the full policy wording or the information 
pack it referred to in the response it sent to us (if indeed  they were).  I think  its unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve had this paperwork in advance of the phone call when the policy  was 
sold to them.  
So I think there must at least be real doubt whether the way the benefit worked was properly 
explained to them before they agreed to take out the PPI. Based on what Ive read and been 
told up to now, I think they could reasonably have misunderstood how the policy  benefit 
would be calculated. I think  they expected to get £800 a month if either of them claimed,  and 
the actual position only became clear to them  when Mrs B made a claim  on the policy.
Sharing the policy benefits between  them  meant that it would only pay out the full monthly 
amount (£800) in the event of a joint claim by both Mr and Mrs B. If just Mr B or only Mrs B 
claimed (as later happened) the policy was designed to pay out an appropriate proportion of 
the benefit to replace the lost income   not the full amount. 
Ive thought carefully about whether its likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve chosen to do 
something different  if HSBC had explained  the way the split worked  - and whether this 
makes any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
On balance I think it probably wouldve done. The policy paid out for 12 months per claim. 
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that Mr B couldve depended on getting  full sick pay for 
12 months from his employer. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Bs sick pay from 
work  but I cant safely assume that Mr and Mrs B mightve thought  that was an extra 
benefit they wanted to pay for. 
Mrs B had just 6 months sick pay through work.  This means that the policy  offered her 
protection she lacked  and so it was better value for money. But I still dont think  that if HSBC 
had properly explained the way the policy worked,  Mr and Mrs B wouldve wanted to pay for 
this policy.
Ref: DRN31672443It seems  clear  to me that Mr and Mrs B expected  that they would receive the full monthly 
benefit amount  in the event of a claim  irrespective of who made the claim, and even if only 
one of them claimed. That understanding wasnt correct. But, as the seller, the onus was on 
HSBC to take reasonable steps to explain the way the policy benefits worked. It hasnt 
currently shown me that it did this sufficiently in Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
If it had done, given what Ive been told about their circumstances at the time I think  its likely 
that Mr and Mrs B wouldve not taken  out this policy, as it didnt offer the benefit they thought  
they were getting   so I dont think they wouldve felt it offered them  value for money. They 
say that if theyd been told how the benefit  worked they definitely would have made  different 
choices. I think thats probably right  its likely they wouldnt have bought this particular 
cover. Which means I dont need to consider the other issues theyve raised about the sale.  
Based on all the information Ive seen so far, I think that Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a 
result of HSBCs  failings  when it sold them this PPI with their mortgage. 
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs B have  said they agree with what Ive said in my provisional  decision and that 
they definitely would not have taken out this policy if theyd been made aware the full benefit 
wasnt paid unless both parties were  absent  from work. 
HSBC has responded  to say it doesnt agree with my reasons for proposing to uphold  this 
complaint. In summary, it mainly says it was a non-advised sale  in other words, HSBC  only 
had to give Mr and Mrs B clear enough information  about the PPI for them fairly to be able to 
decide for themselves whether to have it. HSBC  says it didnt  have to check whether or not it 
met their needs. And after discussing options  over the phone  its mortgage advisor wouldve 
sent paperwork for completion to Mr and Mrs B if theyd said they wanted to proceed. This 
wouldve included information about the PPI in the policy document and information pack. 
HSBC says Mr and Mrs B wouldve had plenty of time to read through everything and ask 
any questions before the insurance started. And the PPI wouldnt have been set up if they 
hadnt signed to say they wanted  it and made  payment arrangements  at their bank to cover  
the cost of the monthly premiums.  HSBC also makes the point that Mr and Mrs B couldve 
cancelled the policy within 30 days if they took it out and decided  they didnt want it after all. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what HSBC has said in response  to my provisional decision. 
I think its fair for HSBC  to say that customers have some responsibility  to make sure that 
they read and check paperwork to make sure it reflects  their understanding  of what  theyre 
signing up to and paying for. Ive no reason to think that Mr and Mrs B didnt do this  or that 
they didnt want  PPI. 
Ref: DRN31672444But I dont know what, if any paperwork theyd been  given before the call during which they 
agreed to have the PPI. And anyway, even if theyd seen the documents that HSBC 
suggests before they signed  a direct debit mandate for the policy (if indeed they saw them at 
all), I dont  think the way that information  about the shared benefit split and what  this meant 
in reality for Mr and Mrs B was very easy to understand   especially if, as they say, following  
the phone  call with HSBC their understanding already was that the policy  paid out a benefit  
amount of £800  to each of them. HSBC  cant show  me how it was explained during the 
phone call that sharing the policy didnt mean that Mr and Mrs B were  both potentially  able to 
benefit from the full £800. Rather,  it limited  the amount  of benefit they could each claim. 
HSBC cant even say if this aspect of the policy was specifically discussed  at all. And the 
only paperwork Ive seen  that they actually  signed  was the mortgage offer which merely 
stated Amount of cover  £800.
So even if I accept this was a non-advised sale (which I think it probably was) HSBC  was still 
required to ensure it provided  Mr and Mrs B with sufficient clear  information for them to be 
able to decide if the policy offered them benefits  they felt were worthwhile. I dont know how 
(or if) the information they needed  to know about  the way the benefit  worked  was explained  
over the phone. And I dont think the paperwork alone explained the consequences  for 
Mr and Mrs B of sharing  the policy between them in a way that, in the circumstances, its 
reasonable to expect  Mr and Mrs B wouldve fully understood. And, from what theyve told 
us, I dont think they did understand it.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve  felt the policy offered  them the protection  they wanted if 
theyd understood  it did not match their expectations of the cover they thought they were  
paying for. And on balance, in my view its unlikely theyd have taken it out. 
So, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons explained above,  including in 
my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN31672445putting things right
HSBC should  put Mr and Mrs B in the position they wouldve been in had they not taken out 
the policy. 
I understand that the policy is already cancelled so now HSBC  should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
When HSBC has worked out the above figure, it can take off from this amount  what  
Mr and Mrs B got when it says Mrs B made  a successful claim under the policy  
(I understand the insurers have confirmed that the amount  paid to Mrs B was 
£1,645.27). 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3167244