K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Global Financial  Limited (GFL)  mis-sold an equity release product to 
her (and her late husband  Mr S) because:
They didnt need the income from the subsequent investment they were advised to 
invest the majority of the money released  in to.
They didnt use the money that was generated by the investments.
They werent aware of the effect of interest roll-up  on the mortgage and how this 
would reduce the value of the property later in their lives.
Neither Ms S nor her sister were made aware  of the arrangement.
background
In 2008 Mrs S and Mr S took out an equity release mortgage (ERM) of £80,500 (the £500 
being the application fee for the mortgage) based on the advice they received from a 
mortgage adviser for GFL. They were  then advised  by a separate  financial adviser  to invest 
£57,000 of this money - £7,200 each in an ISA with the balance of around £43,000 in an 
investment bond  that provided  an annual  income of £3,225 dropping to £3,166 after 2012.
One of the ISAs was surrendered in 2011 and the other in 2013. Mr S then sadly died in 
2015 after which Mrs S has been the sole recipient  of the income from the bond. Ms S was 
appointed as executor of Mr Ss estate  and has a Power of Attorney for Mrs S. She 
complained to GFL when she became aware  of the ERM and the investments. Given Mrs S 
was the sole beneficiary  of Mr Ss Will this complaint is, in effect, her complaint and Ms S 
and Ms G represents her in the complaint.
I have issued two provisional decisions in this complaint. In the first I didnt uphold the 
complaint about  the equity release mortgage  or the advice to invest £43,000 in the 
Investment Bond  being unsuitable but did find that the advice to invest  £14,400 in two ISA 
was unsuitable.  In my second provisional decision I decided that, contrary  to my first 
provisional decision, that the advice to take out the equity release mortgage  was unsuitable. 
Both provisional decisions are attached and form part of this final decision.
The main  reason I changed  my view on the suitability of the equity release mortgage is 
because of the transaction record from the bond  provider which Ms G had provided which  
showed that no income was taken from the bond  until 2012, four years after the investment 
into the bond.
GFL didnt  agree with my second provisional decision. In summary,  it made  the following 
points:
The ombudsman has made an incorrect judgment that because  Mr and Mrs S didnt 
draw an income, they didnt enjoy a higher standard of living. This is based on an 
assumption rather than on factual information.
The complainant  mentioned in the complaint another investment that was nothing to 
do with GFL so they must  have had another adviser  advising them on spending their 
income.
This information has either been withheld by our service or by the complainants.
They are amazed that information about the savings account has been made 
available but evidence from the current account and about other holdings isnt and by 
Ref: DRN34863852failing to provide  this information it shows we havent treated them fairly and the 
decision is based purely on conjecture.
They surrendered  the ISA in 2011, during the period the ombudsman said they didnt 
draw on the investment  bond, which disproves the fact they didnt need  capital  and 
shows they were using other resources to fund lifestyle rather  than use the bond.  
This is good practice as it leaves the bond  intact and growing outside the reach of the 
county council for funding care.
The ombudsman has avoided comment on how their other  resources were  used from 
2008 to 2012 to support  their needs which means the decision is a guess or is based  
on information not disclosed to it.
Having received information  from the complainants  I havent allowed them  to put their 
case forward before reaching  a final decision
It was clarified with GFL that contrary to its belief, the decision they were commenting on 
was a provisional decision not a final decision. GFL then made the following points:
The investigation by the ombudsman didnt recognise that one of Mr and Mrs Ss 
daughters was aware of the advice  at the time and was happy with it and didnt raise 
any concerns,
The ombudsmans findings  failed to consider that; the £80,000 was quantified 
between Mr and Mrs S and the investment adviser.
The ERM advice was given to raise this capital  and based on the need for £80,000  
and stands separately to how they used the money or invested it.
The investment  advice was given and there  was further  discussion  which  obviously 
meant Mr and Mrs S finally wanted to invest only £57,000 and retain the rest for their 
own use.
There is no evidence this retained cash existed in 2012 or even in 2017.
The bank  statements between 2008 and 2012  are of key importance  to the merits of 
the case but have not been produced and it is their belief they havent  been disclosed 
because they dont support the clients case.
Rather than pursue  the evidence the ombudsman has chosen  to ignore it.
I mentioned the withdrawals from the bond in my first provisional decision as I 
referred to payments  into an account  starting from August 2012 and this nullifies my 
main reason for changing  my decision.
If this was a court  of law full disclosure of and to both parties would  be required if the 
information was relevant and I have deprived  them  of information that could sustain  
their case.
I should at least  have considered what happened to the residual  money between  
2008 and 2012  that wasnt  allocated to the bond  and ISAs.  They  calculate  that there 
would have been cash remaining of nearly  £29,500 and if 8% interest  was added to 
that there should be nearly £47,000  in the accounts as of 2012.
There has been a failure to consider  whether other assets  have been used and this is 
a failure in the investigation of the complaint.
The fact they decided to use cash and ISAs  before drawing on the bond was Mr and 
Mrs Ss decision.
There has been a failure to consider  various  other reasons they might have used 
cash rather than take withdrawals.
The ERM was designed  to release assets for Mr and Mrs S to improve their financial 
circumstances and the order in which they use them is immaterial.
Mr and Mrs S wanted some cash to give away after the recommendation but before 
investment which the ombudsman  hasnt  considered. 
Ref: DRN34863853Immediate withdrawal  from an investment isnt good practice and it is good practice 
to use other assets in the first year.
The market crashed in September 2008 and didnt get back to the same  level as the 
end of March  2008  until 2010  and it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs S not to take 
withdrawals in this time which I havent  considered and is a failure of due diligence.
Why would they have cashed in an ISA in 2011  if they had other cash available?
It is their contention that they had no significant level of cash  available  and only when 
the cash and ISAs had been  exhausted,  did they turn to the bond.
The ombudsman has said that the ERM was invalid as the objective wasnt  clearly 
defined in the investment suitability letter. But the investment suitability letter needs 
to be considered with the ERM suitability letter which shows  they wanted capital for 
other purposes unspecified.
The ombudsman relies on the investment advisers recollections  at one point and 
then dismisses his recollections at another which is contradictory and shows the 
process of applying evidence is flawed.
The ombudsman has made very little effort  to identify  where  assets went which 
shows a lack of thoroughness and bias.
The ombudsman hasnt shown there is a nexus  between it and Mr and Mrs S beyond  
2012 and the law of agency  has been  ignored.
Mr and Mrs S used  the money  for their own purposes and no evidence  has been 
provided to the contrary.
The ombudsman has lost sight of the fact that the ERM was justified if Mr and Mrs S 
made use of the money simply on the basis  that they had the use of the money.
The process of calculating redress isnt fair as no comparison has been provided in 
the content of the fund recommended so I cant demonstrate why my fund is 
appropriate.
The investigator emailed  GFL on my behalf  to point  out that the fact that the statements 
between 2008  and 2012 werent available wasnt evidence they had been deliberately  
withheld. He also clarified with GFL that the figure it had calculated  as to the cash  available  
after taking account  of the investments made was incorrect and there wasnt evidence this 
was still available  as of the date of the fact find in February 2008 in any event.
GFL responded with some further  queries and then subsequently with another calculation  
based on there being cash  of £16,523  available in 2008. It calculated  the total amount that 
should have been in Mr and Mrs Ss accounts  in 2012 was just short  of £65,000.  This was 
based on the amount of cash from the ERM, the ISA surrender in 2011, the £21,000 they 
already had available in 2008 and interest  on the various amounts at 3%.
GFL also suggested that I should  calculate  the approximate expenditure from 2012 onwards 
and that if this is more  than in 2008 this would be an explicit  demonstration  that the ERM 
was justified. It said this is why it had asked for this information and that it had been 
hampered because the statements hadnt been provided to it. It accepted  that it isnt unusual  
for statements not to be retained by clients, but it said this wasnt  impossible and asked if I 
had seen proof this had been requested from the account holders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34863854Given the various points  made by GFL I think it is important to make clear that my role is to 
consider the evidence provided by the parties  and come  to a fair and reasonable decision 
based on that evidence. It isnt uncommon  for the evidence not to be complete,  especially 
where the complaint is some years  after the events complained about.
Where there is not agreement between the parties my findings are on a balance  of 
probabilities  what is more likely, than not. However, I am not required to comment  in my 
findings on every point made by a party. If I havent referred to a point, it is because I dont 
think it is central to the issues in the complaint.
GFL has suggested that there has been  some deliberate attempt by those representing the 
complainant to withhold relevant documents such as statements from 2008.  I asked Ms G to 
confirm what steps had been taken  to obtain  the bank statements for Mr and Mrs S. She has 
confirmed that they requested all records going back to 2007 and the records  that have been 
provided are what they have been given and been told are available. I accept what  she has 
told me. I dont agree  with GFL that Ms S and Ms G havent disclosed all the documents  they 
have been able to obtain.
I note that GFL suggests that I referred  to withdrawals from the bond  in my first provisional 
decision - as I referred to payments into Mr and Mrs Ss account from 2012  - and that this 
nullifies my main reason  for changing my findings. However, it is clear from what I said in my 
first provisional decision that I wrongly  believed they had been taking an income from the 
outset. Ms G pointed this out by reference to the bond providers transaction  report  and this 
led me to review everything  again and change  my findings.  
GFL has mentioned another  investment  Mr and Mrs S had referred to by Ms S in the 
complaint she made on behalf of Mrs S. It has suggested  that this is evidence that Mr and 
Mrs S were  receiving advice from another adviser as to what  to do with their income. GFL 
has again suggested, without foundation, that information about this has deliberately  not 
been disclosed. I have not previously commented  on this because  I dont  think it is relevant 
but given what  GFL has said I will briefly comment on this investment now.
The evidence provided to me was a notice to all creditors (Mr and Mrs S arent  named) of 
the Exeter fund from the administrators appointed   in 2005. The information in the notice 
includes that the Exeter fund was declared  to be in default by the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme on 1 May 2007 and that a scheme was approved by creditors on 24 
September 2008. This was a failed investment as early as 2005 and there is no reason to 
think Mr and Mrs S were  being advised  by another adviser about this at the time GFL were  
advising them - it is difficult to see what advice  could be given in the circumstances.
GFL has referred to one of Mr and Mrs Ss daughters being aware of the advice about the 
ERM at the time and that was happy  with it. It has said I didnt recognise this. As I have  said,  
I dont need to comment on every point  but so it is clear, the daughters knowledge of the 
ERM isnt evidence of its suitability.
Having considered all the available evidence in this complaint I am still not satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs S should have  been advised  to borrow  £80,000 by way of equity release. 
Mr and Mrs S were  referred to the mortgage  adviser  by the investment adviser  who was the 
person that advised them  they needed to borrow £80,000 to pay off a small loan and provide 
additional income. 
Ref: DRN34863855GFL has provided evidence from the investment adviser, but this is limited to the investment 
advice he provided  after Mr and Mrs S has taken out the ERM. It has provided no evidence 
from him to explain on what basis he assessed they needed to borrow  £80,000 to provide  
additional income in the first place.
The investment advisers recommendation  that Mr and Mrs S needed to borrow £80,000 is 
the basis on which the mortgage  adviser recommended  they take out the ERM. There  is 
nothing to show that the mortgage adviser  carried  out any separate  enquiry about this. Mr 
and Mrs S only told the mortgage  adviser  they needed to borrow  £80,000 because that is 
what they had been told by the investment adviser. It follows that if they never  needed 
additional income in the first place then they had no need for the ERM, as they didnt need 
this just to pay off the small  loan. 
There is nothing to support the investment advisers recommendation that Mr and Mrs S 
needed £80,000 to provide an additional  income. I pointed out in my second  provisional 
decision that, allowing  for the repayment of the loan of just short  of £6,500  the investment 
advisers suggested figure means he calculated that they needed around £73,500 to provide  
an income and that in effect this would  have provided additional income of £3,675 each year.  
This was on top of the surplus  income  they already had, which would  have provided  an 
overall net income, after outgoings, of around £11,500 each year.  There  is nothing to show  
they needed that sort of net income after outgoings .
There is no suggestion prior to them getting the mortgage money, that they had any other  
objectives for the money other than paying  off the small loan and obtaining  additional 
income/supplementing daily living costs.  There  is no explanation after they had got the 
money as to why they spent some of this rather than use it to provide additional income  or 
why their objective for the money  had changed  so that they no longer wanted to use this for 
additional income.
The adviser has sought to suggest  in his statement that Mr and Mrs S did have other 
objectives, such as wanting to give their daughters money. However, there  is nothing  to 
support what he has said about this or that they wanted to borrow  money  for any other 
reason beyond repayment of the small loan and so they could have  additional income. If 
they wanted to borrow  the money  for other reasons,  I think it is more likely than not these 
would have been referred to.
GFL argue that the mortgage advice about borrowing £80,000 stands separately to how Mr 
and Mrs S used the money. I acknowledge that GFL couldnt insist on how Mr and Mrs S 
used the money  once  they had received this. But that is not the same as saying that the 
mortgage adviser could recommend equity release regardless of whether there was a need 
for it. Mr and Mrs S only asked to borrow  £80,000  because they were advised by the 
investment adviser  that they needed this money to provide additional  income and this was 
the basis on which the ERM was then recommended. 
If they never  had any need for additional income in the first place and were  wrongly advised 
by the investment adviser to borrow  money  for that purpose, then it follows they didnt have 
any need for the ERM regardless  of whether they then used the money to do something 
other than invest it to provide an income. 
The fact the documentation after they received the money makes no reference to additional 
income being an objective or to them using existing  assets to provide the additional  income 
Ref: DRN34863856instead and they didnt  then use the money  for the purpose for which  they borrowed it 
suggests that they didnt need the money  in the first place for that purpose.
There is reference in the investment bond suitability letter to reviewing the income  position  
for the bond in a year and I note GFL has said it is good practice to use other assets  in the 
first year. But the objective for the bond wasnt to provide an income  in any event. The 
investment advisers  statement in this complaint also doesnt support  this as being  Mr and 
Mrs Ss intention, as I pointed out in my second  provisional decision. In the circumstances 
Im not persuaded that there was ever any intention to start taking an income from the bond.
It is possible that Mr and Mrs S had decided to use existing funds to provide the additional 
income they supposedly needed, rather than the money they had borrowed.  But as I have 
already indicated, there is nothing to show that Mr and Mrs Ss decision not to use the 
mortgage money for the purpose for which it was originally obtained was because  they had 
decided they were going to use existing funds instead.
I also dont think the market crash had any bearing on Mr and Mrs S deciding not to take an 
income from the bond given this wasnt the objective  of their investment anyway. I think it is 
more likely than not no income was taken  from the bond for the first four years because  Mr 
and Mrs S never intended to take an income  from it in the first place.
I note GFL has referred to me relying  on the investment advisers recollections at one point 
and then dismissing them at another and suggests that this is contradictory. However, the 
part of his evidence  I have referred  to and accepted I think is consistent with the documents 
and what happened. Where I havent  accepted what he has said it is because  this isnt 
supported by any other evidence. 
GFL has said that the investment  bond suitability letter  needs  to be read with the mortgage  
suitability letter which it says showed  Mr and Mrs S wanted capital for other purposes 
unspecified. The mortgage suitability letter identified Mr and Mrs Ss objectives only as 
paying off the loan and investing to supplement daily living  costs  - in accordance with what 
Mr and Mrs S had been advised  by the investment adviser.
Considering the two suitability letters together doesnt explain why they were advised  by the 
investment adviser  that they needed to borrow £80,000 for additional income  or provide 
evidence that supports  that advice.
There is no explanation  from the investment adviser  as to why, having advised Mr and Mrs S 
to borrow £80,000  to provide an additional  income, this was no longer an objective when he 
came to advise them  on what to do with the money. GFL has said Mr and Mrs S wanted  
some cash  to give away after the mortgage recommendation and before investment but 
there is nothing to show this was an objective  when they took out the ERM or subsequently.
GFL has said that the ERM  was designed to release  assets for Mr and Mrs S to improve 
their financial  circumstances and the order in which they used their assets is immaterial and 
that the fact that they used their ISAs and cash  before the bond was their decision.
However, I dont agree  that the ERM was provided  on the basis  it was to release assets to 
improve Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances. It was recommended  specifically on the 
basis it was going  to be used to pay off the small loan and to supplement daily living costs as 
I have already pointed out. There is nothing in the documents that suggests  Mr and Mrs S 
Ref: DRN34863857simply changed their minds and decided  that instead of using the mortgage money to 
provide an income  to supplement daily living costs  they would use existing assets  instead.  
GFL suggest  that statements  from Mr and Mrs Ss accounts between 2008 and 2012  - which 
Ms G and Ms S have not been able to obtain - are significant as they will show what they did 
with their existing assets. They also argue that analysing  Mr and Mrs Ss outgoings from 
2012 based on statements that have  been provided is important. However, I dont agree with 
GFL about  these two issues. 
The issue  in this complaint is whether Mr and Mrs S should have  been  advised to borrow 
£80,000 in the first place. GFL have provided no evidence that shows the basis on which  the 
investment adviser  advised them that they needed to borrow  £80,000. After allowing for the 
repayment of the small loan the investment advisers recommendation shows  he calculated 
they needed around £73,500 to provide additional income.  
There is no explanation  or evidence from the time of sale or in this complaint that shows on 
what basis the investment  adviser  calculated they needed £73,500 to provide additional 
income. Their circumstances at the time dont  suggest they needed to borrow  money to 
invest to supplement their daily living costs  as they had a significant net income  in excess  
of outgoings already. They also had £21,000 in savings and their only liability was the small 
loan of £6,500. Its possible they may have  wanted more net income than they currently had, 
but without some evidence to show  the basis of the investment advisers  recommendation I 
am not persuaded that they did.
I dont accept that if they did use existing assets to pay for things this is evidence  of itself of 
them having  a need to borrow  money in the first place. It wouldnt be surprising if, having  
received £80,000,  Mr and Mrs S made  decisions they wouldnt otherwise have made.  So, I 
am not persuaded that what they did with their existing assets after receiving £80,000 would 
provide evidence they needed to borrow that money  in the first place.
In the circumstances Im not satisfied that knowing what  Mr and Mrs S did with their existing 
assets between  2008 and 2012  would provide evidence they needed  to borrow £80,000 in 
the first place. I think their spending habits as of 2012, four years  after the advice, are even 
less relevant.
GFL has said that I havent considered  that the £80,000 was quantified as between the 
investment adviser  and Mr and Mrs S. However,  as I have already said, it has provided no 
evidence to show how the adviser  calculated  they needed £80,000 to provide an income in 
the first place. There is nothing to show what Mr and Mrs S were told by the investment 
adviser about this or that Mr and Mrs S were aware  of how the adviser had come up with the 
figure that he did or understood  the basis on which he had determined  they needed to 
borrow £80,000. 
GFL has suggested that I havent shown there is a nexus between  it and Mr and Mrs S after 
2012. GFLs argument  is based on the investment  adviser moving to another firm at that that 
time with that firm receiving the commission for the bond going  forwards. It argues that 
another firm became responsible for reviewing the suitability of the investment from 2012.
However, I am not upholding this complaint on the basis that the investment advice was 
unsuitable, I am upholding the complaint on the basis Mr and Mrs S shouldnt have been 
advised to borrow  £80,000. I have seen  nothing that suggests another firm was responsible  
for reviewing the advice  to borrow £80,000.
Ref: DRN34863858GFL have  stated that the redress is unfair because I cant  identify  that my fund is more 
appropriate. It is referring to the redress in my first provisional decision which redress  was 
based on a comparison  with a benchmark. This redress is no longer  relevant as a result  of 
my second  provisional  decision.  
What GFL should  do to put things right
Mrs S and Mr S would not have taken out the ERM if they had received suitable advice. 
They now have the mortgage to repay together with the accrued interest.  But they have also 
had the benefit of the amount released  from the equity of the house, some  of which  has 
been spent and some of which has been invested  and has provided a return.
In the circumstances redress should be calculated  on the basis  that GFL pay to Mrs S the 
interest payable on the mortgage at the time of settlement  less the returns  made on the 
investment bond  and the two ISAs.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained.  Global  Financial Limited must 
calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2021.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34863859COPY SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S complains that Global Financial Limited  (GFL) mis-sold an equity release product to her (and 
her late husband Mr S) because:
They  didnt need the income from the subsequent investment they were advised to invest  the 
majority of the money released in to.
They  didnt use the money that was generated  by the investments.
They  werent  aware of the effect  of interest roll-up on the mortgage and how this would 
reduce the value of the property later in their lives.
Neither Ms S nor her sister were made aware  of the arrangement.
background
In 2008 Mrs S and Mr S took out an equity release mortgage (ERM) of £80,500 (the £500 being  the 
application fee for the mortgage) based on the advice  they received from a mortgage adviser for GFL. 
They were then advised  by a separate financial adviser to invest  £57,000 of this money - £7,200 each 
in an ISA with the balance of around £43,000 in an investment bond that provided an annual income 
of £3,225  dropping to £3,166 after 2012.
One of the ISAs was surrendered in 2011 and the other in 2013.  Mr S then sadly died in 2015 after 
which Mrs S has been the sole recipient of the income  from the bond.  Ms S was appointed as 
executor of Mr Ss estate and has a Power of Attorney for Mrs S. She complained to GFL when she 
became aware of the ERM and the investments. Given Mrs S was the sole beneficiary  of Mr Ss Will 
this complaint is, in effect, her complaint and Ms G represents her in the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which  I found that the ERM  hadnt been mis-sold 
but I said I wasnt satisfied that the advice about the ISA investments was suitable. A copy of that 
provisional decision  is attached  to this further provisional decision.
GFL queried why it was responsible for redress relating  to the advice beyond 2012 when another  
advising firm became responsible  for providing  advice. I responded and explained that as one ISA 
had been surrendered  in 2011 it was responsible for redress for that ISA in any event. In respect of 
the second ISA I said this was surrendered in 2013 but that just because they werent  responsible for 
advice after October 2012 this didnt mean their liability for redress immediately  at that point. 
Ms G provided a detailed response to my provisional decision  which was 25 pages long setting  out 
why she didnt  agree with me. I have considered everything she said but I have not set out the various  
points she has raised as I dont think it is necessary. There is one key point she has made  which has 
made me revise the findings in my first provisional decision. 
The point I am referring to is the fact that the investment  bond  providers statement shows  no income 
was paid out of the bond for four years from when it started  with payments only starting in 2012,  
something I had not addressed when  reviewing  the complaint initially.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I will briefly comment on a couple of the points  that Ms G raised to clear  these up before addressing 
what I consider  the main  issue arising from her response.
She has referred to Mrs Ss and Mr Ss health. But there  is nothing to show that either the mortgage 
adviser or investment  adviser were made aware  of any health  issues.  I note what  Ms G has said 
Ref: DRN348638510about studies showing  that dementia arises some  years before it is diagnosed. But this isnt t 
evidence that Mrs S was suffering from Dementia in 2007/2008 and even if she was it doesnt  mean  
this will have  been clear  to the advisers. Mrs S and Mr S also saw an independent solicitor who didnt 
raise any concerns about their health.
Ms G has also referred to the investment not providing  enough growth to; provide an income, pay the 
charges; cover the interest on the ERM. I agree with Ms G that the growth on investments  wont cover 
the things she has identified. However,  any capital  growth isnt intended to cover charges and interest 
in the first place, so this has no bearing on the suitability  of the ERM and investments. 
Turning to the main  issue Ms G has raised, prior to making my first provisional decision I asked Ms G 
to provide copies of bank statements. This was because I agreed with what GFL had said in response 
to the investigators  opinion that the statements should be considered to determine  if Mrs S and MR S 
had used the income they had received. I considered  it was important to see if the statements  
supported Ms G had said about Mrs S and Mr S not using the income  that they received from the 
investment bond and that this had just been put into savings. 
Ms G provided what statements she could  obtain but I found these didnt  really provide any evidence 
that supported the argument  that the income  had simply gone  into savings - I acknowledged it 
showed some  of the income had done  so from 2012, but not all. 
More importantly  I noted  the statements werent from the start of the investment in 2008 and only 
showed the income  being  paid as from 2012. Based on this I said the bank statements didnt show 
what happened to the income  for the first few years.  In other words, it didnt show the income went  
into savings before  2012.  I thought the only issue was that the money  received hadnt  been used 
rather than no income had been  received  in the first place. It was from this perspective that I then 
considered the rest of the evidence.
However, Ms G has provided a transaction record from the bond provider showing all transactions  on 
the account from 2008  through to 2020. So, this shows all payments into and out of the account over 
that period. The first withdrawal shown in the statements  is in 2012.  
This is significant, in that the main reason for recommending the ERM of £80,000 was so that Mrs S 
and Mr S could invest to provide an income. If they didnt take an income for four years  this indicates 
they didnt need an income and therefore didnt need  the ERM  the only other objective  being  
payment of the existing loan of around £6,500,  which by itself would not have been  a basis for 
recommending equity  release. 
It is the need  for additional  income that is at the heart of the suitability of the ERM and subsequent 
investment advice. And my finding in my first provisional  decision that the advice  to take out the ERM  
wasnt unsuitable was based on there being a need for additional income  - where an income is taken 
and used by a client  form the outset,  I would generally  consider that as reasonable  evidence there 
was a need for that income.
But the reverse is also true, namely that I would  generally  consider there wasnt a need for income if 
no income was taken  for a number of years  after the money  from the ERM was invested. I have 
therefore reconsidered my findings on the basis that the starting point for those findings   namely  that 
Mrs S and Mr S benefitted  from the income  provided  by the investment of money from the ERM  form 
the outset  was wrong. So, I have  looked again  at the various fact finds, suitability letters and other 
relevant evidence  in light of that.
The earliest  document  is the mortgage fact find dated 6 December 2007. This records in various  parts 
that Mrs S and Mr S wanted  to consolidate  their existing loan to reduce  outgoings  and invest the 
remainder of the ERM to supplement their living costs. The loan was recorded  as £7,500 - although 
an email from Mrs S to the investment adviser  dated  27 November 2007,  which I refer to further 
below, confirmed the amount to redeem as £6,476.
Ref: DRN348638511When setting out what Mrs S and Mrs S wanted to do it is recorded that they wanted to borrow  
£80,000 (plus a fee of £500). It also stated a car loan was to be added. However, the total mortgage 
amount was only specified as £80,500 so it seems  more likely than not the existing loan was intended  
to be part of that figure  and not in addition to it.
There is provision  for the clients  to sign and date the mortgage fact find although the copy I have 
been provided  with isnt signed.  I cant  therefore  know if Mrs S and Mr S agreed with all the contents. 
However, there is a suitability  letter dated 22 January 2008 which referred  to their objectives as 
paying off an unsecured  loan and raising funds to invest to produce an additional income  to 
supplement day to day living  costs. So, the objectives set out in the fact find and suitability  letter  are 
consistent. 
There is nothing in the fact find or suitability  letter  indicating that they had any needs beyond the two 
identified objectives.  So, there is nothing to suggest they needed to take equity release  for such 
things as house improvements or to give lump sums to their children. Based on the mortgage 
advisers fact find and suitability letter the £80,000 was going to pay off the existing loan of around 
£6,500 with the balance  to be invested to provide  an income.
 
I note the investment adviser said in the statement he provided for this complaint that Mrs S and Mr S 
wanted to give money to their daughters and were  upset  because they couldnt  do so. But if this was 
an objective, I can see no reason this wasnt referred to in any of the documents  completed by the 
mortgage adviser. I note his suggestion that Mrs S and Mr S were going  to use their existing funds  to 
make payments to their daughters. But if this is what they intended  I cant  see how it ties in to the 
ERM. They  could do this regardless of whether, or not, they took out equity release.
I note Mrs Ss and Mr Ss daughters say they didnt  receive anything. But even if they did, this doesnt 
make the advice to take out the ERM suitable given this wasnt  one of the objectives of the equity 
release.
The statement of the investment adviser is inconsistent with the mortgage fact find and mortgage 
suitability letter. The investment adviser  in his statement  suggests that he met with Mrs S and Mr S 
regarding an increase to their income some months after they had taken  the ERM  out. But the 
mortgage suitability  letter refers to Mrs S and Mr S being able to borrow a maximum of £96,600 but 
that:
When we discussed  this you felt that you would like to raise £80,000, the reason  for this chosen 
amount is that it will provide  enough funds to pay off the Lloyds loan and (name  of investment 
adviser) has advised that this will leave sufficient funds to invest to produce the level of additional 
income that you are seeking.
So, it is apparent  that the amount they borrowed was a figure discussed with the investment adviser 
beforehand and one he suggested as being the amount they needed for their twin objectives  of 
repayment of the existing loan and to provide  an income.
Given the figure of £80,000 is also set out in the mortgage fact find of December 2007 it is more  likely 
than not there  was some  discussion with the investment  adviser prior to Mrs S and Mr S meeting with 
the mortgage adviser. As I have already referred to Mrs S emailed the investment adviser on 27 
November 2007 with details  of the outstanding loan which the equity  release was to be used to pay 
off which  I think supports  the finding there was some discussion with the investment adviser around 
that time. 
However, I have been provided with no record of any meeting with the investment adviser  before 
February 2008. And there is nothing to show how he established their need for an additional  income 
was such they needed  to borrow £80,000. any such discussion more  likely than not took place before 
Mrs S and Mr S met with the mortgage adviser. 
Ref: DRN348638512The only documentary evidence  of advice  given by the investment adviser  is the investment fact find 
dated 16 February 2008  - some three or so weeks after the mortgage suitability  letter  - and the 
suitability letters for the investments. What is set out in the fact find isnt consistent with the mortgage 
fact find and mortgage suitability  letter  both of which  indicated that the ERM  was going to be used 
only for the two objectives I have already set out - paying off the existing  loan and providing an 
income. 
Based on the objectives in the mortgage fact find it would be expected that the amount not used  to 
pay off the existing loan would be used to provide the additional income it was recorded  they wanted. 
On that basis  they could have been expected to invest around £73,500 (£80,000 less the existing  loan 
of just short  of £6,500) to provide an income,  but that isnt what  happened 
The investment fact find does refer to repayment of the existing loan but when it comes to the balance 
of the ERM it specifies only £57,000 to be invested. It appears that at this point some of the money  
released by the ERM had already been  spent  by Mrs S and Mr S as they are recorded as only having  
£64,000 in their joint account. Some of this will have been to repay the existing loan but they appear 
to have also spent around a further  £10,000. I acknowledge that the investment adviser had no 
control over them spending  some of the borrowed  money that was intended to be invested but he 
could be expected to advise them to invest the balance to provide an income. 
However, that isnt what happened. Firstly, he only advised them  to invest £57,000 of the remaining 
£64,000. Secondly  of that £57,000 the adviser  only recommended £43,000 be placed in the 
investment bond to provide  an income, with the balance  of £14,000  to be paid into two ISAs.
It is unlikely  that Mrs Ss and Mr Ss income needs had changed significantly  between when the 
investment adviser first discussed this with Mrs S and Mr S in or around November 2007 and meeting 
with him in February 2008. The fact that they were advised  to invest only £43,000 to provide an 
income suggests  they didnt need to borrow as much  as £80,000 in the first place.
They obviously still invested  £43,000 into the investment bond which could  have provided an income 
from the outset in line with the objective of the ERM and the investment fact find. So, on the face of it 
an ERM of around £50,000  made up of the loan and the amount invested in the investment bond   
might have been reasonable.
However, contrary to the objective set out in the mortgage fact find and mortgage suitability letter the 
investment bond suitability letter dated 1 April 2008 does not identify the objective  for the investment 
bond as being to provide income. Instead,  it records Mrs Ss and Mr Ss objective as being to invest  a 
lump sum for capital growth to provide long term security.
There is reference to income in the suitability  letter, but only that taking an income  would be reviewed 
on the first anniversary. I dont know if there was a review, but we know from the bond  providers 
statements that no income was then taken for around four years.  
The investment adviser in his statement  refers to Mrs S and Mr S being  able to roll up the income 
rather than take it. I note he refers to them being  able to take £2,150 from the investment should they 
require it and also refers to them looking forward to a more relaxed  retirement knowing funds  were 
available as and when they needed them (my emphasis). I am cautious about  putting  too much  
weight on his recollections  given the time since the advice. But what he has said is consistent  with 
what happened, namely Mrs S and Mr S having no immediate need  for income as shown by them  not 
taking any income for the first four years. 
The investment adviser was involved in the decision to take out the ERM  at the outset. From the 
evidence it was him that came up with a figure of £80,000 for the equity release - based on Mrs S and 
Mr S needing  additional income. But his suitability  letter  of April 2008 and what he has said in his 
statement together  with the fact no income  was taken for four years dont suggest there was a need 
for income contrary  to the basis on which the ERM was recommended. 
Ref: DRN348638513I said in my first provisional decision that just because Mrs S and Mr S already had a net income after 
outgoings didnt mean they didnt want an additional income.  But their income after outgoings as 
shown in the investment fact find more likely than not explains why they didnt take an income from 
the investment  bond for four years. Their net income  is shown as £1,709 and their outgoings  as 
£1,061 so they had £648 available each month - £7,776 each year  over and above outgoings. I note 
Ms G has suggested the amount was even greater than this as the income figures are four-weekly, 
not monthly. But regardless  of this they clearly had a reasonable amount of spare  income available to 
them.
GFL said in response  to the investigators opinion  that it was wrong for him to assume  Mrs S and Mr 
S should have  led a parsimonious lifestyle and they didnt want to live like church  mice. It seems to 
me this isnt representative of their financial position given how much spare income they had available 
each year. And given they didnt then take an income for four years it seems Mrs S and Mr S were  
happy with their lifestyle based on their current income.
The amount available to Mrs S and Mr S after outgoings  and the fact they didnt take an income form 
the investment  bond for four years also raises questions about  how the investment adviser  assessed 
they needed to borrow £80,000 at the outset.  If  they had invested the balance of the ERM  after 
repayment of the loan to provide an income, as the objectives suggested they were  going  to do, they 
would have had an additional income  of around £3,675 each year. 
This would have meant they would have had nearly £11,500  available every year after outgoings. 
There is nothing to show  why the adviser  thought they needed that sort of income every year.  There  
is no suggestion they wanted  to start taking holidays or spending more money on other things.  If they 
had received additional income  and spent this, it wouldnt  matter  there was no mention  of what they 
were going  to spend the money on. But that isnt what happened. Instead they didnt take any income 
for four years.
In short if Mrs S and Mr S didnt have a need for income  for four years, I am not satisfied they should 
have been advised to take out the ERM to provide an income. Im not satisfied that the ERM was a 
suitable recommendation on the basis there might be a need for additional income at some  point in 
the future so that a client has the comfort of knowing  the money is there if they need it.
In reaching this conclusion I have taken account of the fact that Mrs S and Mr S saw an independent 
solicitor who completed a certificate  confirming  he had, amongst other things; explained the terms 
and effects  of the ERM; had suggested they might want to discuss the ERM with the family; any 
current and future benefits could be affected;  they had agreed to proceed on the basis the ERM  was 
suitable based on the advice of the mortgage adviser.
However, as the investigator noted, the solicitors role wasnt  to assess the suitability of the advice to 
take out the ERM and advise Mrs S and Mr S about  this so the fact that they saw a solicitor has no 
bearing on whether the advice was suitable.
If Mrs S and Mr S had been given suitable advice, they wouldnt have taken out the ERM and would 
not have had the money  to invest. So, the suitability or otherwise of the investments isnt something I 
need to make  findings on. However, as this is a further provisional decision, I will briefly  comment on 
this. 
In my first provisional decision I found the adviser  had wrongly categorised Mrs S and Mr S as 
moderately adventurous investors for the ISAs but the low/medium risk appetite for the bond was in 
line with their circumstances and objectives. I am still of the view that the risk appetite shown for the 
ISAs is wrong and the one shown for the investment  bond is right.  
I made various references  in my first provisional decision  as to what  Mrs S and Mr S would have 
understood from the documents. But whatever their understanding of how the ERM  worked, they 
shouldnt have been recommended equity release when they didnt have a need for income.  
Ref: DRN348638514What GFL should  do to put things right
Mrs S and Mr S would not have taken out the ERM and invested if they had received suitable  advice. 
So far as the ERM is concerned they now have the mortgage to repay  together with the accrued 
interest. But they have also had the benefit  of the amount  released from the equity of the house,  
some of which has been  spent and some  of which has been invested and has provided a return.
In the circumstances redress  should be calculated on the basis that GFL pay to Mrs S the interest 
payable on the mortgage  at the time of settlement less the returns made on the investment bond and 
the two ISAs.
GLF have suggested previously that its responsibility  for the investment advice came to an end in 
2012 as another advising  firm became responsible for advice at that time as they received the 
ongoing commission. But from what  I have  seen this relates to the investments not the ERM. This 
raises the possibility  of some  other firm being responsible for advising on the investments. But I have 
seen nothing  that shows  there was any ongoing commission relating to the ERM. So, in the 
circumstances I am not currently  persuaded any other  business became  responsible for providing  
advice on the suitability of the ERM. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  Global Financial Limited must  calculate and 
pay redress  as I have  set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN348638515COPY FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S complains that Global Financial Limited  mis-sold an equity release product to her (and her late 
husband Mr S) because:
They  didnt need the income from the subsequent investment they were advised to invest  the 
majority of the money released in to.
They  didnt use the money that was generated  by the investments.
They  werent  aware of the effect  of interest roll-up on the mortgage and how this would 
reduce the value of the property later in their lives.
Neither Ms S nor her sister were made aware  of the arrangement.
background
In 2008 Mrs and Mr S took out an equity release mortgage (ERM) of £80,500 (the £500 being the 
application fee for the mortgage) based on the advice  they received from a mortgage adviser for GFL. 
They were then advised  by a separate financial adviser to invest  £57,000 of this money - £7,200 each 
in an ISA with the balance of around £43,000 in an investment bond that provided an annual income 
of £3,225  dropping to £3,166 after 2012.
One of the ISAs was surrendered in 2011 and the other in 2013.  Mr S then sadly died in 2015 after 
which Mrs S has been the sole recipient of the income  from the bond.  Ms S was appointed as 
executor of Mr Ss estate and has a Power of Attorney for Mrs S. She complained to GFL when she 
became aware of the ERM and the investments. Given Mrs S was the sole beneficiary  of Mr Ss Will 
this complaint is, in effect, her complaint and Ms G represents her in the complaint.
GFL initially raised an issue about the complaint  having been  made  too late such that we could not 
consider it. I issued a decision on this in which I said I was satisfied the complaint had been made in 
time.
GFL also didnt think the advice to take out the ERM and subsequent advice to invest some of the 
proceeds was unsuitable.  It said that Mrs S and Mr S wanted an additional  income to provide an 
increased standard of living and used part of the equity  release for capital expenditure  or gifts.  It also 
said that as from November  2012 a new advising  firm became responsible  for advising Mrs S and Mr 
S and that it had no ongoing  responsibility for the advice after that date. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  In summary he 
said the following:
He wasnt satisfied it was necessary to borrow  £80,000 at an interest rate of 6.15% to cover a 
loan for just short of £6,500 which  was already being repaid and where the payments appear 
to have been  affordable.
It wasnt necessary for Mrs S and Mr S to borrow to invest to provide an income  calculated  
at £179 each month  based on payments of 5%.
The repayment of the loan freed up £146 each  month and he wasnt satisfied a further  £179 
was needed - which was essentially offset by the interest on the equity release.
The equity release  was unsuitable and if that hadnt happened the investment wouldnt have 
happened either.
The equity release  and existing  assets  of Mrs S and Mr S shouldve meant they had available 
£94,000 but the fact find completed for the investment refers  to only £64,000. Ms S said 
neither she nor her sister received any money so on balance it would appear Mrs S and Mr S 
made use of this money.
He wasnt satisfied that Mrs Ss and Mr Ss recorded risk appetite  of realistic was wholly 
appropriate for them.
Ref: DRN348638516He wouldve expected the investment to be tailored towards their objective of providing  an 
additional income  and the ISA investments were moderately  adventurous  which wasnt in 
line with Mrs Ss and Mr Ss risk appetite or objective.
Mrs S and Mr S dont appear to have  had any previous investment experience and he wasnt 
satisfied they were in a position to lose any money.
The equity release  was partly to provide an income, but the ISAs and Bond had real potential 
to suffer significant  loss which  would  negate the objective of providing an income.
There is no evidence that some of the capital was gifted to Mrs Ss and Mr Ss children  as 
GFL suggested,  but it would appear Mrs S and Mr S made  some use of the money  from the 
equity release as a lump sum appears to have been used between  the equity release money  
becoming available and the investment taking place.
GFL has said it shouldnt be responsible for any advice past 2012 but the advice to take out 
the equity release was before this and this wasnt suitable.
The independent legal advice doesnt negate the responsibility of the adviser.
To put things right, upon sale of the property and surrender of the bond GFL should:
oPay the interest accrued  on the mortgage up to date of settlement and any early  
repayment charge.
oPay the capital balance of the mortgage less; the £23,000 Mrs S and Mr S took from 
the mortgage amount  at the outset;  the surrender value of the investments;  the total 
income Mrs S and Mr S received from the investments.
Ms G responded and said that she and Ms S agreed  with the investigators opinion.  GFL responded  
setting out why it didnt agree with the investigator. I have summarised its key points as follows:
The suitability  letter for the equity release  stated that the clients wanted to repay a loan to 
reduce outgoings and raise  funds  to invest to produce income to supplement their day-to-day 
living costs.  It wasnt for the investigator or anyone else to decide  retrospectively that what 
they wanted was unjustified and the assumption they should have  led a parsimonious lifestyle 
is wrong.
The income  had to go into a bank account of some sort and if it were  simply transferred to a 
savings account  and not used  there should be an account holding a significant amount  of 
cash, but no evidence has been  provided to show this so Mr and Mrs S enjoyed the income  
provided however they chose to use it.
This shows the investigators subjective opinion  about need is incorrect  and Mr and Mrs S 
used the money as they wanted to and didnt  want to live as deemed by the investigator  
living like church mice.
The investigators reference to care costs being met from the investment bond  has nothing to 
do with the original advice and he has wrongly  implied that the ISAs were used  similarly 
when they were  surrendered earlier.
The investigator has referred to them using  their savings to repay  the loan, but the equity 
release suitability  letter  shows they didnt want to do this. If they had used their savings they 
wouldve had no emergency fund and wouldve had to take out a further unsecured loan of 
£1,990.
The investigator has confused  what Mr and Mrs S actually wanted, and spent, with what he 
thinks they needed.
There were  different objectives for the ISAs and Investment Bond and when the portfolio as a 
whole is looked at falls within their identified risk appetite of realistic.
The investigator hasnt taken account of the underlying investments within  the ISAs  and Bond 
which show  GLS took account of the need to reduce risk and produce income and growth. 
Their portfolio only had 15% in higher risk investments with the balance in low risk income 
bonds, property and corporate bonds. 
The investigator either failed  to take account of the fact that the Investment Bond as a life 
policy is protected by the Charging  for Residential  Accommodation Guide (CRAG) section 6 - 
so the capital  cant  be taken into account in the assessment of support from the council  or 
wasnt aware of this benefit.
Ref: DRN348638517The equity release  means  that the capital released was protected from forming part of their 
assets so wasnt subject  to being used  if either of them needed care in the future.
If the investment had taken place  at the time care was needed the council  could see this as 
deprivation so it had to be taken  out in advance to be effective.
If this had been included in the suitability  letter  this couldve again have  been considered  
deprivation as it could be seen as an intention to deprive the council of assets.
The investigator has ignored both legal precedent and previous ombudsman decisions with 
his views on continued responsibility beyond 2012.
There was no nexus between it and Mr and Mrs S after 2012 and the adviser who had 
advised on the equity  release left them to join another firm in 2012 and it was the new firm 
that had an obligation to review as they received  the ongoing commission.
If Mr and Mrs S didnt use the extra income  then, at the time of surrender of the first ISA in 
2011, they wouldve had over £24,000 from income  and around £7,500 from the ISA  what  
did they spend this on? Either they were spending it, or they were giving it away.
When they surrendered  the second ISA in 2013 this provided a further £8,372 and together 
with a further two years of additional income, they had another  £16,000 available which they 
disposed of.
It is obvious  that Mr and Mrs S were enjoying the benefits of the extra income the investment 
bond provided  and were  either enjoying a higher standard of living or giving the money away.
The investigator has failed to take account  of the fact that the capital left in the interest-
bearing account  was a reducing asset when  inflation is taken into account  and by doing 
nothing this wouldve  reduced  their effective  spending  power by an average of 1.2% each 
year.
If Mr and Mrs S had traded down  an option they discounted  and put the £80,000  capital 
released in an interest bearing  account  in line with what the investigator thinks their risk 
appetite was, they wouldve had an additional income of only £3,600 over nine years.
The investigator shouldve obtained the statements of Mr and Mrs Ss bank accounts  in order 
to provide a fair outcome.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that the advice to take out the ERM was unsuitable,  so I am not 
going to award redress based on this not having  been taken out. I do think the advice to invest  in the 
two ISAs was unsuitable, so I have upheld the complaint in part in relation to that. I appreciate that 
this will be disappointing  to Mrs S and her daughters.
I sympathise with Mrs Ss daughters as I think it is likely  to have been quite a shock  to find that so 
much of the equity in the house Mrs S owns  is payable to the mortgage company. But I need to 
provide an impartial decision  based on the available evidence regardless of this. And I think it is 
important to make clear that my findings are on a balance of probabilities  what  is more  likely than 
not  based on the evidence.
It is for me to decide what weight  to give a piece of evidence.  In this regard  documents  from the time 
of sale tend to have  more  weight than later recollections. That doesnt mean  it isnt possible that 
information in the point of sale documents is wrong. But in the absence of any strong evidence to 
show this is the case I accept the documents more likely than not show what  was discussed  between 
the parties.
I also note that Ms S set out, in the letter of complaint she first sent to GFL,  her belief  that the 
products sold by it to Mrs S and Mr S in 2008 werent needed by them and has hindered future  
options for Mrs S particularly in relation to care. She said that this was the basis of her complaint. I 
understand Ms Ss feelings, although her belief the products werent necessary isnt evidence  of this. I 
acknowledge Mrs Ss care provision options may well have been affected by the ERM but again this 
isnt evidence that the advice to take out the ERM was wrong.
Ref: DRN348638518Ms S explained in her letter  of complaint why she thought Mrs S and Mr S didnt  need the money  from 
the ERM  namely  because  of Mr Ss pension and her belief  they had no plans for the money and 
hadnt spent it, with a significant proportion  being invested.  She also said that Mrs S and Mr S hadnt 
spent the income from the investment and that this had just gone into savings. 
I asked Ms G to provide bank statements  for Mrs S and Mr S to see if it was possible to see what had 
happened to the income. I did so because if the statements showed  that all the income from the 
investment bond was simply put into savings  from the outset this may have  suggested that Mrs S and 
Mr S didnt need an additional income  contrary to what the mortgage fact find records.
Ms G obtained as many  statements as she was able to and these relate  to three accounts, one in joint 
names into which income from the investment bond  was paid, an account  with a different bank in Mrs 
Ss sole name and a cash ISA account with the same bank in her name also.
Ms G has not been able to provide statements  going  back to the start of the investment. The earliest  
statement I have seen is from the joint account   which appears to be the main bank  account into 
which pensions were  paid and everyday  payments were made  from. 
Although the statements for this account start from July 2010 it does not show any receipt  of income  
from the investment  bond in that year or the following year. The first payment of investment income 
into the account  is August 2012 after which  there are payments into the account each year around  the 
same time amounting  to £3,166 each time. The statements show that most of this money was then 
paid out to Mrs S.
The statements from the account in Mrs Ss sole name  start from December  2011 and these show the 
money paid out of the joint account  was paid into this account in the main. The statements for the ISA 
account with the same  bank show this account was opened in 2011 with an initial credit of £2,106 
although I dont know where this money came from.
The ISA account statements show credits into the account from the bank account in Mrs Ss name  
into which the investment income  was transferred.  From  my calculations a total of around £9,000 was 
paid into the ISA between 2012 and 2017 which I think can be directly  attributed to the investment 
income. This clearly isnt all of the income that was received.
I dont think I can draw much  in the way of any conclusions from the statements. Firstly, because  they 
dont show what happened  to the investment income for the first few years and secondly because  
although it can be said that some of the income  was simply put into a cash ISA as from 2012 this was 
by no means  all of the income. Im also mindful that Mr S died in 2015 and Mrs Ss income needs may 
well have been different after this.
Whilst I have  noted what Ms S has said about her beliefs  these are not evidence of what happened at 
the time of sale as she wasnt involved  in this. The only evidence I have seen from the time of sale of 
the ERM are the documents created at the time. I have also seen a statement  from the financial 
adviser who obviously  can provide evidence  based on his recollection given he was involved in the 
overall advice at the time. Given the time since the advice I dont place  that much weight on his 
evidence and have relied in the main on the documents.
The documents I have seen include the fact find completed by the mortgage adviser dated 6 
December 2007 and the suitability letter for the mortgage advice dated  20 January  2008.  The fact find 
records:
 Consolidate loan to reduce  outgoings (£7,500) invest remainder (£72,500)  to supplement living 
costs.
Ref: DRN348638519Ms S has suggested  that Mrs S and Mr S didnt need any further money. I acknowledge  that the fact 
find shows their combined income  was £1,744 with outgoings of £1,398. So, they did have some 
surplus income available. But that doesnt necessarily mean that they didnt want more income.
Mrs S and Mr S wouldve  been aware  that they already had some surplus  income. If they were 
satisfied that this was enough, I can see no reason they wouldve agreed to go ahead with the ERM 
so they could  invest some  of this to get an additional income. The fact they did so suggests  they 
wanted more income than they were currently receiving.
The suitability letter completed  by the mortgage adviser  dated 22 January 2008 identified their 
objective as paying off an unsecured loan and raising funds to invest  to produce additional income  to 
supplement day to day living  costs. I note the adviser  has said Mrs S and Mr S wanted to give money 
to their daughters,  although Ms S has said neither she nor her sister received anything.
The letter refers to discussing other options,  such as moving to a smaller  home and making use of 
existing savings and investments and investigating state benefits. The adviser  stated;
You felt that an equity  release arrangement  was your most  suitable option because  you wished  to 
stay in the property for as long as possible.
So, it appears  that the mortgage adviser did discuss other ways that Mrs S and Mr S could achieve  
their objective  of repayment of the loan and an increased income. I note the fact find shows that Mrs 
S and Mrs S had capital of around £21,000 most of which  was in two cash  ISAs and a TESSA ISA. 
They couldve  used  some of this to pay off the outstanding loan of around £6,400.  
But I think Mrs S and Mr S wouldve already  been aware they couldve done this if they wanted to, as I 
think this wouldve been obvious to them.  And this wouldnt have addressed the identified need for 
additional income.  So, they are likely to have  ended up still borrowing a significant  amount through 
the ERM even if they had paid off the loan from existing capital to provide  the additional income they 
wanted. So, I think it is more likely than not they chose not to pay off the loan with some of their 
capital given this was only a small part of what they were going to borrow. 
Mrs S and Mr S invested £57,000 of the £80,000 that was released. I have seen  no evidence that the 
other £23,000 was retained by them. The bank statements that Ms S has managed to obtain dont 
show this and I have seen no other evidence which  would  indicate this money  wasnt spent by them. 
So, I think it is more likely than not they spent this money so had the benefit of it whatever they used it 
for.
The investigator pointed out that repayment of the loan freed  up £146 and that he wasnt satisfied that 
the further income from the investment was needed. But it isnt for us to determine what additional  
income Mrs S and Mr S wanted. There is no reason to think that Mrs S and Mrs S didnt understand 
that they could increase their income  by £146 by simply paying off the outstanding loan  again  I think  
this wouldve been obvious  to them  and is something  they couldve done at any time before they saw 
the adviser if this is what they wanted  to do. 
If all Mrs S and Mr S wanted to do was pay off the loan to free up the monthly payment that they were  
making into it, I can see no reason they didnt simply  use their existing capital to pay off the loan - or 
borrow only the amount of the loan. I dont  think  this option is something that needed to be brought to 
their attention as I think it was clear. Instead they agreed to borrow £80,000 knowing that most of this 
would end up being invested  to provide  an income. I think this shows they wanted more  additional 
income than they would get just by paying off the loan. 
GFL was a member of the trade body Safe Home Income Plans (SHIP) - now the Equity Release 
Council - which has a Code of Conduct with various rules that had to be complied  with. This included 
getting independent legal advice from a solicitor  who would sign a certificate (the SHIP certificate)  
confirming the terms of the equity release had been explained  and understood.
Ref: DRN348638520The SHIP certificate in this complaint is dated 8 February 2008 and confirmed that the terms and 
effects of the ERM  had been  explained to Mrs S and Mr S. The use of a solicitor doesnt of itself mean  
the ERM was suitable, but I think it does  provide  further evidence that they understood what they 
were entering into and the potential impact on their estate.
The mortgage  adviser also advised Mrs S and Mr S to read the Key Facts Illustration dated  21 
January 2008 which showed the impact of the interest payable on the interest over 19 years  with 
the amount showing as due at the end of that period  shown as £250,000. This made  clear  the impact  
of the roll-up of interest payable on the ERM over time. 
Based on the evidence I have seen  I think  Mrs S and Mr S were  provided with the information they 
needed to understand what they were taking out and that they made an informed decision  to go 
ahead with the ERM and it is more likely  than not this was suitable for their identified needs to repay  
the loan and provide additional income through investment. 
I note Ms S suggested that GFL did something wrong because it didnt discuss the advice about the 
ERM with the family. Firstly,  it was not for GFL itself to involve other members  of the family in a 
financial decision Mrs S and Mr S were  making, this was for them to do if they chose to do this. 
Secondly the suitability letter records that the mortgage adviser recommended Mrs S and Mr S 
discuss their decision with family  and that they had told her they had discussed  this with one of their 
daughters who agreed with their decision.  
I dont know if there was such a discussion and I acknowledge it isnt accepted that there was  
although I note Ms S has accepted her sister was aware  that Mrs S and Mr S were  seeing  the 
financial adviser for some advice. But I think it is more likely than not the adviser was told they had 
discussed the ERM as I can see no reason that she wouldve included this in the letter to Mrs S and 
Mr S if that wasnt the case.  So, I think as far as the mortgage adviser  knew the family were  aware  of 
what Mrs S and Mr S were  doing.
Turning to the investments, the fact find dated 16 February 2008  shows that Mrs S and Mr S had little 
knowledge or experience of investments, as shown  by the fact they were  only invested in cash  ISAs 
and a TESSA  ISA. Their  attitude to risk is identified  as realistic from 11 possible attitudes  that range 
from ultra conservative to highly speculative.  
The fact find defines a realistic investor as:
You would like to ensure your short-term financial  security through low risk investment but also wish 
to benefit from long-term investment returns to provide  for future security.
I think  this is unlikely to have given Mrs S or Mr S any real understanding of what  a realistic  
investment was likely to involve. Im also mindful  that descriptions of lower risk categories also 
describe investing in both low risk investments and some higher risk investments. For example,  a 
cautious risk appetite  is described as:
You would prefer to have  most of your investments in cash and fixed interest securities  but are happy 
to have some stock market  investment in order not to sacrifice  too much  long- term return.
In the circumstances Im not satisfied that the fact find provides  evidence of what  Mrs Ss and Mr Ss 
actual risk appetite was. 
The suitability letter for the investment bond identified their objective  as being:
to invest a lump sum for capital growth to provide long term financial security.
With regard to their attitude to risk the adviser only refers to three categories - low, medium and high 
 and that Mrs Ss and Mr Ss attitude  to risk is low to medium. I think this is more likely to be in line 
with what Mrs Ss and Mr Ss risk appetite  was given their circumstances and objective.
Ref: DRN348638521The financial  adviser  provided separate suitability letters  for the stocks and shares  ISAs Mrs and Mrs 
S were recommended  to invest in. The adviser  identifies both of their objectives  in each letter as:
to invest a lump sum for capital growth in a tax efficient environment.
The possible  risk appetite options are different again from both those  set out in the fact find and those  
set out in the suitability  letter for the investment bond. The ISA suitability letters describe five risk 
categories ranging from cautious to adventurous.  Both Mrs S and Mr S are identified as having 
moderately adventurous risk appetites.
I think  the way that risk appetites are identified  differently depending on whether  you look at the fact 
find, the suitability letter for the investment bond or the suitability letters for the ISAs is confusing and 
unhelpful for clients who had no real investment  experience. I think it is very unlikely  that Mrs S and 
Mr S both had a moderately  adventurous risk appetite given their circumstances and experience  or 
wouldve had any real understanding of what this meant.  
I note GFL has suggested that when  their portfolio is looked at as whole it falls within the realistic risk 
appetite identified in the fact find. But Im not satisfied that Mrs Ss or Mr Ss risk appetite was different  
depending on what they were investing in. I note GFL have suggested that the objectives  for the 
investment bond and ISAs were different, but both had an objective  of capital growth albeit the 
investment bond was to provide an income as well. In the circumstances Im not satisfied that the 
advice for the ISAs was suitable.
In summary, I am not persuaded  on the evidence I have seen that the advice to take out the ERM 
wasnt appropriate in the circumstances.  I also dont  think the advice to invest  £43,000 in the 
investment bond to provide  an additional income for Mrs S and Mr S was unsuitable. But I do think  the 
advice to invest  a total of £14,400 in the two stocks and shares  ISAs was unsuitable as these 
investments werent in accordance with Mrs Ss and Mr Ss likely risk appetite.
I acknowledge that my findings will be disappointing to Mrs S and Ms S despite upholding  the 
complaint in part. The redress  that is likely to be payable for the ISA investments is unlikely to be that 
significant and will do little to offset  the amount now owing  under the ERM  and given the previous 
opinion of the investigator  which upheld  their complaint about the ERM they will be disappointed  I 
have come to a different conclusion.  But I am unable to say that GFL did anything  wrong  in 
recommending the ERM based on the evidence I have seen.
What GFL should  do to put matters  right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mrs S as close 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable  advice.
I think  Mrs S would have invested differently.  It is not possible to say precisely what  she would  have 
done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mrs S 
circumstances and objectives when  she invested. 
What should GFL do? 
To compensate Mrs S fairly,  GFL must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs S' investments with that of the benchmark shown below  and 
pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investments. If the actual 
value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
A separate calculation should  be carried  out for each investment.
Ref: DRN348638522GFL should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
First Stocks  
and Shares 
ISA  surrenderedfor three  
quarters of the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index; 
for the other 
quarter: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Second 
Stocks and 
Shares ISA surrenderedfor three  
quarters of the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index; 
for the other 
quarter: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid or payable from the investment  at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, GFL should  use the 
monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England.  The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted  capital growth and was willing to take a cautious to medium  risk to achieve this.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable return without  risk to her capital. 
Ref: DRN348638523The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE  
WMA Stock Market Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government  bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider  that Mrs S' risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared  to take a 
cautious to medium level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 25/75  combination 
would reasonably put Mrs S into that position.  It does not mean that Mrs S would  have 
invested 25% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 75% in some kind of index tracker fund. 
Rather, I consider  this a reasonable  compromise  that broadly reflects  the sort of return  Mrs S 
could have obtained from investments suited  to her objective and risk attitude. 
The additional  interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation  money since the 
end date.
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint to the extent  I have set out above and for the reasons I have  explained. Global 
Financial Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3486385