K820x#14complaint
Ms A complained that Santander UK Plc changed  the correspondence address on her 
mortgage, to that of her ex-partner. She said that Santander was taking her to court  for 
arrears, but she hadnt known about them. She wants  Santander to stop the court action.
 
background
Ms A and her partner had a Santander mortgage.  They split up, and Ms As ex-partner 
moved out. The mortgage account  was in arrears,  and Santander wrote  to Ms A about the 
arrears on a number of occasions,  including 10 and 24 August, and 27 September  2018. It 
sent these letters to her at the right address.
But Santander then mistakenly changed  the correspondence address to that of Ms As ex-
partner. So the arrears letter of 28 October  was addressed to her at an incorrect address. 
Ms A didnt receive that letter, or letters dated 27 November or 4 December. The December 
letter said that the mortgage was going  to be referred to solicitors  because of the level of the 
arrears. On 4 December, Santander  also sent a text message to Ms A asking her to get in 
touch urgently. 
On 21 January 2019, Ms A complained  to Santander. She said that Santander had sent 
letters to her ex-partners  address and it had caused  her problems because there was a 
history of domestic violence,  and shed had to go and collect  the letters from him. Ms A said 
that if shed had the letters before, she could have  dealt with it. She explained that she was 
going through a divorce, and two of her children were ill, so she didnt want the mortgage to 
go to legal action.
Santander apologised. It corrected Ms As address, and investigated. Santander  apologised 
for the mistake, and paid Ms A £150  compensation to apologise.
Ms A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She wanted Santander to stop court  
proceedings, saying that she hadnt  been  aware  of the situation  because she hadnt had the 
letters.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms As complaint. He noted that Santander had sent letters to 
Ms As correct  address in August and September,  so she was aware of the arrears.  Hed 
also listened to call recordings, and noted  that Ms A was aware that her ex-partner wasnt  
paying the mortgage as hed promised her. The adjudicator said that he was sorry to hear 
that Ms A had had to collect  post from her ex-partners address and had suffered domestic 
abuse. But he felt that Santander couldnt  have foreseen this. And he pointed  out that Ms A 
could have asked  Santander to send  copies, rather than going round to collect  the letters.
The adjudicator also listened to other calls, and said that there  was no evidence  Santander  
had refused to speak  to Ms A about repayment options. 
Ms A wasnt satisfied. She didnt think Santander  had behaved appropriately, or provided 
enough compensation for having sent letters to her ex-partners address. Ms A also said she 
believed Santander  should have told Ms A that her ex-partner wasnt paying the mortgage, 
because shed never have let the arrears get to the level they did. 
 
Ref: DRN32588072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms A would have been upset to discover that Santander had been 
sending important letters to her ex-partners address, especially when shes  told us that 
there was a history  of domestic violence. It would have been distressing.   
But when this service  considers  what  a bank has to do to put things right, we look at the 
impact from a mistake. So, looking at the financial practicalities, its clear that Ms A already 
knew that the mortgage was in arrears. Santanders letters on 10 and 24 August, and 27 
September, were  sent to Ms A at the right address, and these showed that the arrears were  
increasing. 
Ive also listened  to a number of phone recordings between Ms A and Santander. Its clear 
from those that Ms A knew about  the mortgage  arrears, and also knew  that her ex-partner 
wasnt paying even  though hed told her he would. There were discussions about  options. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that Santander sent a text message to Ms A, on the 
number Ms A gave  to us, asking her to ring the bank urgently. This message was sent on 4 
December, the day when Santander sent the letters were sent about court proceedings. So if 
Ms A had responded  to that, and had got in touch,  shed  have  found  out the seriousness of 
the up-to-date arrears  situation. This doesnt  of course  excuse Santander changing Ms As 
address when it shouldnt have done.  But it does affect what I consider would be fair and 
reasonable to put things right. 
As Ms A already knew that there were arrears, and that her ex-partner wasnt  paying  the 
mortgage, I dont  consider  it would be appropriate  to say that Santander should cease 
arrears action because  of the three  misdirected letters between 28 October  and 4 
December.
Apart from its mistake in sending three letters to the wrong address, I find that the phone 
recordings and letters dont indicate  that Santander behaved inappropriately as Ms A 
believes.
Im sorry  to hear that Ms A had a difficult experience when she went to collect  the 
misdirected letter from her ex-partner. But I agree with the adjudicator  that Ms A could have 
asked Santander  to send her copies, to avoid having to meet her ex-partner.
I do find that its fair and reasonable for Santander to pay compensation for its misdirected 
letters. Normally,  £150 would be more than Id expect a bank to pay for wrongly addressing 
three letters. But in the circumstances of a difficult split between  partners, the personal  
impact would be greater.  So I find that £150  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this dispute. Santander has paid this, and I dont require it to do more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for Santander to cease  arrears  action 
because of its mistake in sending letters to the wrong address. Nor do I require it to pay 
Ms A more compensation.
Ref: DRN32588073Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3258807