K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about advice he was given  in 1997 by The Prudential Assurance Company  
Limited (Prudential) to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions  (FSAVC) 
policy. 
background
The FSAVC  policy was arranged in 1997. At the time Mr T was a member of his employers 
pension scheme. Mr T contributed £40 a month before tax relief to the FSAVC until October 
2010 when his contributions ceased.  The value of the policy  was transferred to another 
provider in 2016.
Mr T, through  his representative, complained to Prudential in 2017 about the sale of the 
FSAVC. Prudential didnt  uphold the complaint. It said Mr T had been given information 
about the alternatives  his employers in-house Additional Voluntary Contributions  (AVC) 
scheme. Prudential didnt agree the policy had been  mis sold or was unsuitable for Mr T. 
Mr T referred his complaint to us. On his complaint form he said he was advised to take out 
a FSAVC rather than join his employers AVC scheme or other in house  pension top up 
arrangement.  Although  Prudential had said he was told about  the alternative  options, the 
information he was given was generic and too complex for a lay person to understand. Mr T 
had requested an explanation of his employers pension scheme and information about early  
retirement. Prudentials  adviser should have told Mr T to investigate  his options before 
recommending a FSAVC  plan.
At the time,  when Mr T changed jobs and joined his new employers  pension  scheme, he 
was also paying  into a personal  pension.  Instead of referring him to his employer the adviser  
switched Mr Ts contributions from the personal pension into a FSAVC  plan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Prudential  had acted in line with 
Regulatory Update 20 (RU20). The adviser  had made Mr T aware of alternatives to the 
FSAVC policy, given  him generic information  about  the in house AVC and told him that 
specific information was available  from his employer or the scheme trustees. The adjudicator 
thought Mr T was made aware that FSAVCs could be more  expensive than AVCs. 
The adjudicator didnt think the FSAVC  policy was unsuitable. Mr T wanted to make  
additional provision  for his retirement. He couldnt  have continued to contribute to his 
personal pension  and, given hed been  told about  in house AVCs, the FSAVC was a 
reasonable option. A with profits fund (the only investment  option  offered) wasnt  unsuitable 
for Mr T, given his medium  attitude  to risk. 
Mr Ts representative  didnt agree. He said:
The fact find (dated August 1996) records Mr T wanted an explanation  of his 
company scheme. Mr T had changed jobs and was eligible to join his employers 
pension scheme  but the adviser  was unable to advise him about that. 
The leaflet Prudential  had said had been  issued was dated 1998 and so couldnt  
have been given to Mr T. 
It didnt refer to added years and the adjudicator hadnt mentioned  that in her view. 
There was nothing  to support  that Mr T had a medium  attitude to risk. 
Ref: DRN35778032Mr T had a personal pension with Prudential which hed been paying for several 
years. When he changed jobs the adviser  simply advised Mr T to cease his current  
payment and pay into instead  a replacement FSAVC policy. 
No fact find documents were given to Mr T so he wouldnt  have known  that no leaflet 
had been given to him. 
Prudential was asked  to comment. It said:
The fact find was dated 4 July 1997. The FSAVC proposal was completed the same 
day. 
The leaflet didnt  post date that  the date 1998 is a fax date, not the date the leaflet 
was produced.
Its representative and literature didnt have to mention added years   it wasnt  a 
Prudential product.  
The fact find was completed based  on information and answers given by Mr T. It 
supports his attitude to risk. Theres nothing to suggest he didnt have a reasonable 
financial awareness or a medium attitude  to risk. His contributions  were  invested in 
with profits, so low to medium  risk.  
The fact find doesnt record that Mr T had changed jobs.  It says hed been with his 
employer for nine years  but in 1997  hed joined his employers pension scheme so he 
was no longer able to contribute  to his personal  pension. The representative  did 
make Mr T aware of the important features of the merits  of an FSAVC  and in house 
AVCs. Mr T decided  to start an FSAVC plan. 
The adjudicator shared  what Prudential  had said with Mr Ts representative. The adjudicator  
said she was satisfied  the sale had taken place  in July 1997 and had been in line with the 
regulatory requirements at the time.  
Mr Ts representative  referred to a decision of the Pensions Ombudsman which appeared to 
challenge Prudentials  view that its advisers couldnt discuss  added years or suggest that the 
consumer research that option.
Mr Ts representative  said that when Mr T told the adviser hed changed  jobs the adviser  
should have ensured Mr T obtained  a scheme  booklet and fully investigated the options 
available to him. Instead the advisers  focus  was simply to convert the existing  personal  
pension contributions (which Mr T was no longer  eligible to make)  into a FSAVC  contract, so 
retaining the business and avoiding any potential commission clawback. Prudential had 
confirmed the fact find and application were completed on the same day  so there  was no 
expectation that Mr T explore the alternatives.  
Ive seen there were  further exchanges between  the adjudicator and Mr Ts representative. 
Ive noted all that was said. Essentially Mr Ts representative thought  insufficient  weight  had 
been given to the Pension Ombudsmans determination. Mr Ts representative also said that 
Mr T had been given questionable advice  on several occasions. Viewed individually there  
might not be a problem  but taken collectively it seemed  Mr T had been given 
unconventional guidance.  
The adjudicator said she couldnt comment on decisions  reached by the Pensions 
Ombudsman. She maintained Prudential had met the regulatory requirements when selling 
the FSAVC to Mr T. 
Ref: DRN35778033my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has also complained about  earlier pension advice given by Prudential.  That complaint 
is being dealt  with under separate reference.  But it was also referred  to me. Ive considered 
both complaints together and taking  into account the wider background. 
But, although I bear in mind  the advice Mr Ts been given over the years by the same  
adviser, I dont think this complaint, about the FSAVC, should be upheld. Essentially I agree 
with the adjudicator that Prudential complied  with its regulatory obligations at the time. I dont 
have much to add to the reasons given by the adjudicator in her view and follow up opinions. 
Im required  to determine the complaint  by reference to what, in my opinion,  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In considering whats fair and reasonable I 
have to take into account relevant law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time. 
Where, as here, the adviser was tied (only able to sell products that Prudential offered) he 
should still have  known that an AVC would be available  and that it could potentially have 
lower charges than the FSAVC.  Wed expect  a tied adviser to have  pointed  out that AVCs  
were available; explained that money purchase AVCs  were likely to be better value than 
AVCs; given information about the generic differences; and recommended that the 
consumer find out about their AVC options   which  might include added years. 
I know theres a dispute about whether or not Mr T was given a copy of the leaflet. Its 
impossible to with certainty,  well over twenty  years later,  if Mr T did get the leaflet. The 
adviser wrote on the fact find that hed given  a copy of the leaflet to Mr T. Im prepared  to 
accept that even if, unsurprisingly, Mr T doesnt  now recall it. 
I dont think, for the reasons given by the adjudicator, that the FSAVC was unsuitable. I 
agree with her that Prudential gave suitable advice to Mr T and gave him sufficient 
information in line with the regulatory  requirements at the time. In particular I think  Mr T was 
made aware  that his employers scheme offered AVCs  and that the charges could be lower.  
I note whats been said about Mr T not having been given any time to investigate what his 
employers scheme offered. But I dont think thats  enough to uphold  the complaint. The 
important point is that he was made aware that he did have  options  and he could have 
investigated them if hed chosen. I think if hed have done that hed also have found out if his 
employers scheme offered added years. 
Ive noted the decision  Mr Ts representative  has referred to. Im not bound by decisions 
issued by another ombudsman scheme  I have to determine the complaint  on the basis Ive 
set out above.  
That said,  I can understand theres an expectation  for consistency.  But  I dont see the 
decision referred to is directly relevant. It appears  that consumer was a teacher and a 
member of the Teachers  Pension Scheme (TPS).  Prudential  was appointed by the relevant 
government department as sole AVC provider  for TPS. Prudential managed the AVC section 
of TPS. There were special  arrangements about making sure TPS members  were aware of 
Ref: DRN35778034the added  years option. But Mr T wasnt a teacher or a member  of TPS. So I dont  think  the 
decision supports  that, in his case,  Prudential should have drawn to his specific  attention the 
possibility of buying added years. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3577803