K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about Uncle Buck Finance LLP. He says his complaint is about:
breach of complaints procedure
harassment
breach of written  contract regarding a repayment  plan
attempts to syphon money from him
breach of the loan agreement
Mr T has also said his complaint is about  irresponsible lending   but Ive not considered  that 
issue, as Ill explain again below.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on 11 June 2019.  A copy is attached and it forms 
part of this final decision. I explained why I wasnt planning  to uphold the complaint and 
asked Uncle  Buck and Mr T to let me know whether  they had anything  to add. Uncle Buck  
didnt send me anything else to consider. Mr T didnt  accept my provisional  decision and 
made further submissions. Ive considered these alongside everything previously submitted 
and have set out my findings below.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Having considered everything, Ive not been  persuaded  to depart from my provisional 
findings. Ill explain why.
Ill start by reaffirming that Im not able to consider the allegations  of irresponsible  lending.  
I havent seen  that Mr T raised this issue with Uncle Buck  and under our rules hed be 
required to do that before I could consider this matter. 
Under the complaint  heading above  Ive set out almost verbatim what Mr T told this service 
his complaint was about when he referred his complaint to us (the points are taken from his 
complaint form). There is no allegation  of irresponsible lending on the complaint form and it 
isnt addressed in Uncle  Bucks  final response letter either. Ive also reviewed Mr Ts emails  
to Uncle  Buck and havent seen that he told it he thought it had lent to him irresponsibly. In 
fact, almost  all of Mr Ts emails in some  way relate  to repaying the debt  which isnt what Id 
expect to see if Mr T thought the lending was irresponsible.
Mr T has questioned whether I relied on a credit  report  from Uncle  Buck which  he hasnt 
seen. I can confirm I havent  such evidence would  only really be pertinent to a complaint 
about irresponsible lending, which as Ive said above isnt something I can consider.
I reiterate that whether  Uncle  Buck  properly  complied  with any request Mr T made under the 
General Data Protection Regulations (or the Data Protection Act 2018) is a matter for the 
Information Commissioners Office.
Ref: DRN39731132Mr T says Uncle Buck  treated him unfairly by not agreeing to reduce the amount of interest 
payable on the loan. He says that Uncle Buck shouldve  considered  suspending or reducing  
interest  which  is one of the examples of forbearance given in the regulators consumer 
credit sourcebook (CONC).
I dont agree that Uncle Buck was necessarily required to reduce the amount of interest  
payable on Mr Ts loan.  
CONC 7.3.4R (a rule, which Uncle Buck should  follow) says, "A firm must treat customers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration."
CONC 7.3.5G (which  is guidance) then goes on to provide examples of forbearance. The 
first of these  as Mr T says  includes suspending interest and charges. But I think its 
important to read that example as a whole (the underlining is mine):
considering  suspending, reducing,  waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges 
(for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and is unable to 
meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make  token  repayments , where  in either 
case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest and charges continue  to be applied)
In Mr Ts case, the level of debt would not continue to rise, as the loan was at a fixed  rate of 
interest and the interest was all applied at the start. The most Mr T would ever have to pay 
towards his debt would  be the amount originally due under the contract. Uncle  Buck wasnt 
proposing to add any extra charges or otherwise  increase  Mr Ts debt.
CONC 7.3.6G says:  Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should 
allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
CONC 7 goes on to say (again, the underlining is mine) that a firm will likely not have treated 
a customer fairly if it does not allow for alternative, affordable  payment amounts to repay  
the debt due in full, where the customer is in default or arrears difficulties and the customer 
makes a reasonable proposal for repaying  the debt
From what  Ive seen Mr T first proposed to pay Uncle Buck  £30 a month  towards the debt on 
6 July 2018. Uncle Buck agreed  to accept £30 a month on 10 July 2018. In doing so, I think 
Uncle Buck  acted fairly and reasonably. It accepted  an affordable  alternative  payment 
amount towards  the outstanding debt and showed  forbearance.
I do not agree that Uncle Buck accepted  Mr Ts offer of £30 a month towards the debt on the 
basis that this was contingent on it also agreeing the outstanding balance  at that time was 
£465. Mr T mistakenly stated that this was the balance, but that was his error. One of 
Uncle Bucks emails  sent on 16 July 2018  set out payments totaling £597.20, so it was clear 
Uncle Buck  didnt accept  the outstanding  balance was £465.
Mr T has drawn  my attention towards emails  sent between 5 and 15 October 2018. He says 
Uncle Buck  refused to accept affordable payments. I dont agree with this interpretation.
The continuing dispute between Uncle Buck and Mr T wasnt really over what  he could afford  
to pay each month but was about how much  Mr T was willing to pay in total. For example, in 
Mr Ts email of 8 October 2018 he proposed to pay £276.40 in full and final settlement of the 
loan  far less than the outstanding balance at that time. Uncle Buck  didnt accept Mr Ts 
proposal  but Ive seen nothing to suggest  it wanted Mr T to make unaffordable monthly 
Ref: DRN39731133payments towards  the outstanding balance. It just wasnt accepting Mr Ts proposals to pay 
less than he owed.
On the same  day, Mr T goes on to say: I will agree a payment plan with [Uncle Buck]  once 
the full and final settlement figure  of £276.34  is agreed. Failure  to agree to this amount as 
full and final settlement  will result in cease  of communication (sic)  In a later email, Mr T 
told Uncle Buck to take or leave  this offer.
Clearly, given his financial  difficulties, I can understand why Mr T wanted Uncle Buck  to write 
off a portion  of his debt. But for all the reasons Ive set out above, thats not something  
Uncle Buck  was required to do to show  forbearance. On Mr Ts own figures, he could  afford 
to pay £30 a month towards the balance   and Uncle  Buck accepted this proposal. I cant 
therefore reasonably  find that Uncle Buck acted unfairly. 
I reiterate that Ive not seen that Uncle Bucks  agent,  C, refused to negotiate with Mr T in 
respect of affordable  monthly payments. It seems  that the issues with C were much  the 
same as they were  with Uncle  Buck  Mr T wanted  a reduction in the balance before 
agreeing to monthly payments.  If no agreement was reached, I think  its simply because 
C also didnt accept a reduction of the outstanding balance  on Uncle Bucks behalf.
Uncle Buck  has told this service it is willing to try again to set up a repayment  plan with Mr T. 
I hope both parties  can have a constructive conversation about  this.
For the sake of completeness, I need  to reiterate  that this service is not a financial regulator.  
I cannot therefore say whether Uncle Buck breached its own complaint procedures.  From  
what Ive seen, it responded  to Mr T within the prescribed time limits. I have also taken a 
step back and looked more broadly at how Uncle Buck dealt with Mr Ts requests for 
forbearance. And for the reasons Ive given  above, I dont think  Uncle Buck  acted unfairly in 
this respect.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Uncle Buck Finance LLP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39731134COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T says his complaint  concerns the following issues:
breach of complaints  procedure and regulatory rules
harassment
breach of written contract in relation  to a payment plan
breach of loan agreement
failure to respond  to a request under the General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (GDPR)
the actions of Uncle  Bucks  appointed debt collection agent
He wants Uncle Buck to write off his debt and remove the default  and all other negative information 
from his credit file.
background
Mr T took out a £500  loan from Uncle  Buck  in April 2018, which was repayable  in six monthly 
instalments. The total amount payable  was set out in the loan contract as £989.48.
On 2 July 2018 Mr T contacted  Uncle Buck and told it his financial circumstances  had changed  and 
that he needed to set up a repayment plan. There then followed a long chain of emails back and forth 
between Uncle Buck and Mr T. The contents  of the correspondence will be familiar to both parties, so 
I wont reiterate it all here. But in simple terms, Mr T and Uncle Buck did not come  to a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan.
Mr T made  his complaint to Uncle Buck on 17 July 2018 and it sent its final response on 
10 September 2018, in which it rejected his complaint. Mr T referred his complaint to this service 
where it was considered by an adjudicator, who did not recommend it should be upheld.  Our 
adjudicator didnt think  Uncle Buck  had treated Mr T unfairly.
Mr T didnt agree; he said the adjudicator hadnt  taken  into account the actions of 
Uncle Bucks  debt collection  agent  and that Uncle  Buck  had also lent to him irresponsibly.
As there  was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
Ill start by setting out which issues I am able to deal with in my decision.  Mr Ts complaint about the 
way in which Uncle Buck dealt with his proposed  repayment  plan is covered  by its final response 
letter and a number of the other issues he raises are linked to that (such as allegations of harassment 
and breaches  of alleged agreements). Those are all issues I can consider.
I also think  I can consider  the actions of Uncle Bucks agent (which Ill call C) in attempting to collect 
the debt and issuing a default notice, which  happened  after the final response letter  was sent. Thats 
because Mr T continued to repeatedly  express  his dissatisfaction towards C in his correspondence  
with it  and so Uncle  Buck had sufficient time to consider those  matters.  The issues are also very 
closely linked with Mr Ts original complaint.
Ref: DRN39731135I will not comment on the matter of Mr Ts GDPR request.  Whether or not Uncle Buck  complied with 
the relevant regulations in that respect is a matter for the Information Commissioners  Office.  I also 
wont be making  a finding on whether Uncle  Buck  lent irresponsibly to Mr T. I cant see that Mr T has 
ever raised  a complaint  of this nature with Uncle  Buck  and he would  need to give it the opportunity to 
consider such  a complaint  first. Finally, whether or not Uncle Buck is in breach  of the regulatory  rules  
for complaint  handling isnt something I can decide.
In dealing with Mr Ts complaint, I have summarised  some of his complaint points or set them out 
using my own words. Id like to make it clear I have, however, read everything he has sent to us. But I 
will focus on the points I consider are material  to his complaint.
did Uncle Buck treat Mr T unfairly in respect of his repayment proposals?
I can see Mr T feels strongly about  this aspect of his complaint, but I do not consider 
Uncle Buck treated Mr T unfairly when  trying to come to a repayment arrangement.
Whats clear from the majority of the correspondence between Mr T and Uncle  Buck is that Mr T was 
only prepared to come  to an arrangement with Uncle Buck  if it agreed to write off some of the interest 
contractually due on the loan, or otherwise accept some form of partial settlement.
I think  Uncle  Buck was clear  enough in most of its correspondence with Mr T that it wasnt prepared to 
agree to accept less than the full amount  contractually due. On occasion, Uncle Buck was silent on Mr 
Ts comments  about  the outstanding balance   but I do not consider that means  it accepted Mr Ts 
figures. 
I dont agree with Mr T that Uncle Buck accepted his repayment proposal of £30 a month on the basis 
of a balance of £465  in July 2018. Ive seen nothing in Uncle  Bucks emails  to suggest it accepted this 
interpretation of the outstanding balance. In fact, its email of 16 July 2018 (timestamped 11:27) sets 
out a repayment plan of 20 monthly repayments totalling £597.20.  Mr T may not have thought this 
was correct, but I cant see that 
Uncle Buck was unclear  or acted unfairly when setting out its position  on the amount of the 
outstanding balance.
What Uncle Buck was required to do, once it knew Mr Ts circumstances has changed, was to treat 
him positively  and sympathetically.  This doesnt necessarily  mean  it had to write off some of the 
interest Mr T owed under his loan agreement  but if the contractual monthly  repayments were now 
unaffordable, Uncle Buck did need to take action.
I think  Uncle  Buck did take appropriate action. It asked Mr T to provide up-to-date information about 
his income and expenditure and then agreed, upon  receipt  of this, to accept £30 a month towards the 
debt. I think  it acted reasonably by agreeing to accept this amount, which was affordable  based on Mr 
Ts changed  circumstances. 
With this in mind, I dont think Uncle Buck treated Mr T unfairly,  or failed  to negotiate  with him, or 
requested unaffordable payments.
did Uncle Buck or C harass Mr T?
There is a large  amount  of correspondence between Mr T, Uncle Buck and C. But most of it is two-
way and involves  Mr T making  payment  proposals and Uncle Buck  responding to those proposals. I 
dont think anything Ive seen amounts  to harassment  and Ive seen  no evidence of an inappropriate  
amount of contact by Uncle Buck or C.
I note that Mr T has said C shouldve put his account on hold as hed bought a complaint to this 
service. In some circumstances that might be appropriate but it isnt something that happens  
automatically. In any event,  I understand Uncle  Buck  has since taken  back management of the debt 
from C and I hope progress will be made towards arranging a payment plan.
Ref: DRN39731136did Uncle Buck breach the loan agreement?
Mr T hasnt expanded much  on what he means  when  he says Uncle  Buck breached the loan 
agreement. He is free to do so in response to this decision.  But I take it to mean  (as our adjudicator 
thought) that he is referring to the ability to settle the loan early  and receive a rebate of interest. As 
our adjudicator explained,  this refers to full early  repayment of the loan, before the original final 
payment date. If this is what Mr T is referring  to, I have nothing to add to what the adjudicator said on 
this point. Mr T didnt settle the loan early.
was Uncle Buck (and/or C) right to issue a default notice/start legal action?
Ive seen that Uncle Buck  issued a default notice on 2 January 2019 and that a default  is recorded  on 
Mr Ts credit file as of 28 January 2019.  The guidance  for the recording of defaults  includes  that they 
are ordinarily  recorded  between three and six months after the relationship between borrower and 
lender has broken down. 
In Mr Ts case, I think its clear the relationship  had broken down  and the default was recorded within  
an appropriate amount  of time. There was still no agreed repayment plan in place as of 2 January  
2019, so it was appropriate  for Uncle Buck to consider the loan to be in default.
I note that Mr T made a number of new offers,  but as before these  came with caveats unacceptable to 
Uncle Buck (such as an offer to pay, but only commencing in May 2019) or were  offers for less than 
the balance due.
Again, I do not think Uncle Buck acted unfairly by insisting Mr T repay the contractual amount due. 
Ive seen that it continued  to be clear this is what it expected.  And I havent  seen any correspondence 
suggesting Uncle Buck wanted the balance to be repaid  in one payment (which  would likely be 
unaffordable to Mr T) but continued to be willing to accept instalments.  For example,  Cs email of 9 
January 2019 for example  says, We would  be more than happy to agree an affordable repayment  
plan
I have noted Cs emails do refer to no settlements being available (as Mr T has pointed  out) but its 
clear from their context that this refers to the rejection of a partial settlement of the debt proposed by 
Mr T, rather  than a rejection  of a monthly payment plan.
As it continued to be the case that an agreement  could  not be reached, I do not think  
Uncle Buck or its agent  acted unfairly  by issuing a default notice or by suggesting  it was prepared  to 
take legal action. It wouldnt  be right for Uncle  Buck to allow the issue of the outstanding  balance to 
drag indefinitely. As informal discussions had failed, taking more  formal  steps to resolve  the matter  
was not an unreasonable step.  
I understand Uncle Buck  has again agreed to come to come  to a payment arrangement with Mr T. I 
would urge both parties to enter into a constructive dialogue about the way forward.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am not planning  to uphold this complaint against Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP.
Ref: DRN3973113