K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1993. Ms B and Mrs L say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision of 28 November 2019, a copy of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In it I set out why I was minded to say I dont think  the PPI 
was mis-sold. 
I invited both parties to provide any further submissions before I reached a final
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the further  submissions made  by Ms B and Mrs L. In particular Ive 
thought about what theyve said about having  another insurance policy in place which  
covered them for sickness and redundancy. Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, Ms B and 
Mrs L havent been able to provide any paperwork to evidence this  so I cant see exactly  
what the policy wouldve  covered and in what circumstances. So I cant say that the PPI was 
an unsuitable recommendation  for them  after all it wouldve paid out for up to 36 months if 
they were out of work  because  of accident  or sickness, so substantially  longer than they say 
the alternative policy they mention couldve covered them for. It also wouldve covered them  
for up to 12 months for unemployment. 
I note that Ms B and Mrs L mentioned they didnt  claim on the PPI policy when Mrs L 
became ill. If they wish to look into the possibility of a backdated claim on their PPI policy,  
they should contact the insurer in the first instance.   
my final decision
It follows that for the above reasons alongside  the reasons Ive already  explained  in my 
provisional decision, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN31353532Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
copy  of my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN31353533This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in
1993. Ms B and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
The policy covered both Ms B and Mrs L for accident, sickness and unemployment. Our
adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. Santander has disagreed so the
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Ms B and Mrs Ls case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Santander has said the policy was taken out in 1993,  and in 1996 was amended.  It says this
explains why the policy number changed in 1996. This was a long time ago and so theres
little paperwork available to verify this. But based  on everything Ive seen and my wider
knowledge of how these policies operated, I think the change  in policy number in 1996 was
most likely due to an amendment of the policy. I dont  think there was a separate  sale in
1996 and as this complaint is about the mis-selling of PPI, this decision will focus on what
happened in 1993 when the policy was sold.
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and get Ms B and Mrs Ls consent
before adding it to their mortgage. Santander hasnt been able to provide paperwork from
the sale  but this isnt surprising  considering  the length of time since the sale.  It has
however provided a sample PPI application it says is similar to the one that wouldve been
used in Ms B and Mrs Ls sale. Based on this I think its likely Ms B and Mrs L wouldve  had
to sign the form to say they wanted the policy. They also wouldve had to fill in personal
details and complete the direct debit mandate.
So on balance and without persuasive evidence  to support what Ms B and Mrs L have told
us, I think  its more likely that Santander made it clear that Ms B and Mrs L didnt have to
take out the PPI and they chose to take it out. Although considering the length of time since
the sale can understand  why they cant remember  this.
Santander recommended the PPI to Ms B and Mrs L so it had to check  that the PPI was
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it
was.
Mrs L was diagnosed with a tumour in 1996. But as this happened  some years  after the
policy was sold, I dont think she wouldve been affected  by the policy terms in relation to
existing medical conditions. And both Ms B and Mrs L appear to have  been working at the
time of sale and dont appear to have been effected by any policy  restrictions related  to
unusual working arrangements.
Both Ms B and Mrs L say they wouldve  been entitled  to employee benefits including sick
pay and redundancy pay. They also say they had alternative  insurance cover that couldve
protected them against  accident  or sickness for up to 12 months (but havent been able to
provide paperwork to evidence this).
Regardless of the benefits  and other means they held, the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of
any employee  benefits Ms B or Mrs L wouldve  received   and for up to 36 months if either
were unable to work because of accident  or sickness.  And the PPI wouldve covered them
for up to 12 months  if either lost their jobs. It also wouldve allowed them  to use their other
Ref: DRN31353534means such as their alternative insurance  to cover other necessary expenses  at what
couldve been  a difficult time financially.  The consequences of not being able to meet their
mortgage repayments were  serious and on balance  I think they wouldve found  the policy
useful if either found themselves out of work. I dont think their existing  provisions meant the
PPI was an unsuitable  recommendation.
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms B and Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear
as it shouldve been.  But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would
have put them off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms B and Mrs L have  said.  I know Ms B and Mrs L will be
disappointed  but for the reasons Ive explained above, I currently dont think  their PPI was
mis-sold.
Ref: DRN3135353