K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside a credit card. Mr D says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) mis-
sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr D says he wasnt told the PPI was optional and he felt pressure to take it out. But Ive 
thought about what both parties have said and Ive also looked at a copy of Mr Ds credit 
card application  form.  Mr D ticked  the box to agree to take out the PPI, but he couldve left it 
blank if he didnt want the cover. And as he completed this form in his own space  and time 
he was able to make that decision  freely without any influence or pressure  from AMEX.  So 
Im satisfied that  AMEX  made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this.
This was a postal sale and theres no evidence Mr D had any interaction with AMEX   other 
than the provision of the application  form itself.  So I dont think  AMEX recommended  the PPI 
to Mr D and so it didnt  have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr D 
got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put him 
off taking out the cover. 
Mr D says he had some sick pay and some savings which he couldve relied on to make his 
repayments. He also said he couldve relied on his family to support him, but help from 
others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change. And having this 
policy meant Mr D didnt  have to rely on others.  The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his sick 
pay and savings and meaning these funds  were free to use for other expenses.
This means  AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But AMEX  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
AMEX got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  AMEX didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, AMEX has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN31328032my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr D any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3132803