K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) blocked his online banking 
facility even though he answered  the security  questions correctly. Mr P also complains that 
because he didnt have  identification available he was only able to withdraw  £100  a day 
which meant he wasnt able to move into a new property and was left homeless. 
background
Mr P has a Halifax  current account. On 2 August  2018 Halifaxs fraud  team called Mr P as it 
found some  unusual transactions on his account.  Halifax says Mr P didnt answer the 
security questions correctly so it blocked his account. Mr P says he did answer  the questions 
correctly. 
To remove the block Mr P was asked to visit a branch with identification. But Mr Ps told us 
he was applying for a work licence and his documents  werent  available.  
Mr Ps also told us that when he got paid on 10 August 2018 he tried to use his card but the 
first withdrawal he tried didnt go through. When Mr P tried a different cash machine his card 
was retained.  
Mr P visited  a Halifax branch and it ordered  a new card for him. But because he didnt have 
any identification the most it could let him take out as cash  was £100.  Over the following 
week Mr P took out £100 most days. 
Halifax says the account and internet banking block was removed on 10 August 2019 after 
Mr P visited  the branch.  
Mr P complained in November 2018 and Halifax responded  on 4 December 2018 but didnt 
agree it had made a mistake. Halifax said it was concerned about the answers  hed given to 
security questions which meant he had to visit its branch with identification. Mr P referred  his 
complaint to our service and an investigator  looked at it. The investigator thought Halifax had 
dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly  so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr P wanted to appeal  
his complaint so its been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps told us that as a result of his account  being blocked and his card retained he wasnt 
able to move  into a new rented property and was left homeless. I understand how serious a 
situation this must  have  been. The investigator  asked  Mr P for some evidence to show what  
had happened  and the impact it had on him. The investigator also asked Mr P to provide 
evidence of any costs  hes incurred. Mr P says that his new property was arranged  
informally over the phone and he doesnt  have any proof. 
I can see things were  really difficult for Mr P. But for me to uphold  his complaint Id need to 
be satisfied that Halifax had made  a mistake and treated Mr P unfairly.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr P but I dont  think Halifax made  a mistake here.  
Ref: DRN31271682Mr P complains that his account and online banking facility were blocked on 2 August 2018  
despite answering questions correctly. Halifax wont say what  specifically caused the 
account block to be put in place and I think thats reasonable. Businesses can keep 
information concerning its security  questions and procedures private from their customers. 
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax had a legitimate reason to block  Mr Ps account 
and ask him to visit a branch with identification.  
On 2 August  2018, Mr Ps account was in an unarranged overdraft  and there were no funds 
available. The next date Mr P had funds  available was 10 August  2018, after he got paid.  
On 10 August 2018 Mr P tried to get money out of his account using two ATMs. The second  
one retained his card. That meant  a new card had to be ordered  in branch. But I can see 
from the notes provided and from the call recording Ive listened to that Mr Ps account and 
online banking block was removed  on 10 August 2018, when he visited the branch. So from 
that point, Mr P had two options. To withdraw a maximum of £100 cash  in branch or use his 
online banking facility.  
Mr Ps account statements show that after 10 August  2018  when he got paid Mr P went back  
to Halifax several times to withdraw £100 cash. But theres no evidence that he tried to use 
his online  banking to make a payment or access his account. 
Mr P complains that he was only allowed to withdraw £100 cash  a day as he didnt have 
access to his identification. Whilst I appreciate that made things harder for Mr P, Halifax is 
free to decide  what security measures it has in place  to protect customers.  I understand this 
limited Mr Ps withdrawals but I dont think that means Halifax treated him unfairly. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P because  I understand that the impact of having  limited access  to 
his account was difficult for him. But I havent  found Halifax made an error by blocking his 
account on 2 August  2018. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3127168