K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc acted unreasonably by applying  an early  
repayment charge  (ERC)  when he repaid his mortgage. Mr K says he was forced into 
repaying the mortgage early by Barclays actions, and the amount of the ERC was unfair  
considering how long the product had left to run.
Mr K would like his ERC refunded to him. 
background
In 2016 Mr K took out a mortgage with Barclays for around £223,000. Barclays had 
recommended the mortgage to Mr K having taken his circumstances into account at the 
time. The mortgage was on a two year tracker rate of 0.99% above  base  rate. The rate 
ended at the end of June  2018. The mortgage  would then revert  onto a variable rate of 
1.99% above  Barclays Bank Base  Rate  for the rest of the term.
In 2018 Mr K wanted to sell his property and get a more expensive property on a joint basis 
with his partner.  He contacted Barclays to see what his options were.  
Mr K says Barclays  explained he could take out a new mortgage  on a joint basis with his 
partner, but this would involve him paying  the ERC to break  his existing mortgage while  the 
product was still running. Or he was told he could port his existing interest rate to a new 
mortgage, and then borrow a further  amount. The extra borrowing would be on a different 
interest rate deal available  now and this would have  a different end date to his existing 
mortgage and Barclays wouldnt  let him leave  his existing product  early even if he took out a 
new mortgage with it. 
Mr K felt he had no choice but to remortgage  elsewhere and he incurred an ERC  by settling 
his mortgage while his interest  rate product was still running.  At the time the mortgage  was 
repaid in March  2018 Mr K had three months remaining on his interest rate product yet 
Barclays applied an ERC which  was 1% of the mortgage balance.  This equated to around 
£2,100.
Mr K complained to Barclays.  He had thought the ERC would be applied on a pro-rata basis, 
and said it wasnt clear  how the loss to the lender was calculated  and whether this was 
proportionate to the actual  loss to Barclays of Mr K ending his product early.  Mr K said if hed 
known how much the ERC would be, he may have decided to pursue a different timescale 
selling his property.  Mr K also said he felt the term was an unfair contract term, and that 
Barclays abused an unequal relationship  with him.
Barclays gave its final response on 19 April 2019,  and a further clarification  letter on 10 May 
2019. It didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. In summary, Barclays said it applied its ERC  in line 
with the terms and conditions of the mortgage contract.
Mr K was unhappy with Barclays response and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened but didnt think the complaint  should  succeed. The 
investigator was satisfied that Barclays has demonstrated that the ERC  had been clearly set 
out to Mr K when took out the mortgage  and Barclays had met its regulatory obligations.
Mr K disagreed and asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on his complaint. He 
replied to say in summary:
Ref: DRN32184662- he considers this to be a wider issue that is not well explained,  reasonable or equitable for 
mortgage borrowers; and
- why didnt  Barclays advise him to overpay his mortgage before he repaid it to reduce the 
amount of the ERC?
- its unfair that Barclays covered costs  with the ERC. He understood that the product fee 
hed paid covered the cost of his mortgage;
- this ERC is a grossly unfair  practice  and the Financial Ombudsman Service should clamp 
down on such banking  practices, as they have done  with overdrafts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should  explain  our role is separate to that of the regulator. Were  an informal dispute 
resolution service, set up to consider individual complaints  brought  against financial 
businesses. Were a free alternative to court action. While we share insight with the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, our role is not to clamp down on industry  wide 
issues. 
Mr K has highlighted wider banking issues as part of his complaint. Ive thought  about  
everything that Mr K has said, and the issues within the mortgage market  hes raised. It 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on this subject in my decision. If theres  a need 
for wider banking reform, that would be a matter for the regulator to determine rather than 
this service.  
Id like to reassure Mr K that I have  taken relevant legislation  and regulation into account 
when considering whats fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of his complaint 
about Barclays. 
Mr K has complained that Barclays hadnt  made it clear to him how his ERC worked. He was 
under the impression that his ERC would reduce over time.  Ive looked carefully at the 
mortgage offer dated 13 June 2016  to see what Barclays  said about the ERC and how it 
would operate  when  the loan was taken  out.  
In section 10 of the mortgage offer theres  detail about what  happens if you do not want  this 
mortgage any more.  In this section of the offer it says that an ERC is payable  until 30 June 
2018 (assuming  the mortgage starts  on 1 July 2016). Mr K was aware there  was an ERC to 
pay if he settled the mortgage within the two year term of the rate. Rather his complaint is 
that hes unhappy that he didnt understand the amount of ERC  that hed need to pay as he 
thought this reduced over time. 
The mortgage offer says that that the basis of the ERC charge is that you pay 1% of the 
amount repaid. There are also cash examples of how much this would mean  assuming Mr 
Ks mortgage balance  was a certain  figure. There are regulations  around  ERCs and how 
they should be presented to customers. Im satisfied that the mortgage  offer does clearly set 
out the amount of the ERC and that it shows a cash illustration of the amount that might 
need to be paid.  
Some ERCs are stepped and reduce over time,  with lower  percentages that apply each 
year. But that isnt how Mr Ks mortgage operated. The charge is expressed as 1% of the 
amount repaid. If Mr K were to have substantial overpayments to the mortgage,  then this 
Ref: DRN32184663would equate to 1% of a lesser amount as the mortgage balance would be lower. So, to an 
extent, Mr K is right in that the ERC amount would reduce over time.  But there is no mention 
of the ERC rate (of 1%) reducing  during the two year product term.
Mr K approached Barclays to explore his options.  He wanted to see if he could  stay with 
Barclays and borrow the additional amount and port his mortgage  rate to a new property. 
Mr K has complained that Barclays gave him a lack of options  and he was effectively forced 
to go to another lender.  In doing  so he had to pay the ERC. Mr Ks said he met with his 
premier banking manager and spoke with a mortgage adviser before deciding he wanted to 
move his mortgage.
Ive asked Barclays for further  information about these meetings or any advice given. It 
didnt have a record of what was discussed. It may be that these  were  high level conceptual 
discussions about Mr Ks situation  and what Barclays could offer. There  doesnt  appear to 
have been any application made or formal  mortgage advice given. Mr K has explained to us 
the options that were presented to him and why he felt these were  unsuitable.
Mr Ks said that he was told he could port his existing mortgage product to a new property, 
and then borrow a further amount on interest  rate products available at the time. Mr K was 
unhappy that this would  involve a product fee on the additional borrowing, and potentially 
products that expired at different times on different tranches of his mortgage debt with 
Barclays. Mr K didnt  want this and didnt want to sort out another product for his existing 
mortgage when  the tracker expired. Mr K, by his own account,  considered  Barclays offering 
and decided to go elsewhere. He seems  to have felt forced  to go elsewhere  as he 
considered Barclays  offering  was uncompetitive in terms  of product fees and onerous from 
an administrative perspective. Im satisfied  that Barclays had explained Mr K could port his 
mortgage to avoid paying the ERC, and that Mr K made the choice,  having  considered  all his 
options, to remortgage  elsewhere knowing that there would  be an ERC  to pay. 
Mr K has said how disappointed he is that during the discussions with his premier banking 
manager and mortgage adviser, they didnt advise  him to make  use of the overpayment  
allowance reduce the amount he needed  to pay as an ERC.  Mr Ks tracker  mortgage had an 
overpayment allowance  of 25% which meant that he could reduce the capital balance during 
the two year tracker term by up to 25% each year without incurring any ERC. Mr Ks also 
said he had savings held with Barclays that he could have used to make such an 
overpayment to reduce  the fee payable.  I can see why hes frustrated looking back  that he 
didnt make use of this feature of his mortgage  to minimise the ERC he paid.
Ive thought very carefully about this part of the complaint. Back when the mortgage  was 
taken out in 2016 advice  was given by Barclays. The adviser at the time recorded that Mr K 
wanted the ability to make overpayments each month, and that it was important to him that 
he could do so to reduce  the mortgage  balance more  quickly. I think  this clause in the 
mortgage was something  that Mr K might  have had some awareness of, knowing that hed 
specifically asked for the ability  to overpay the mortgage when it was taken out and this was 
a determining factor in him taking out this product in the first place.
What is less clear to me is how apparent this feature of Mr Ks existing mortgage was to 
either his premier banking  manager, or the mortgage adviser he had a conversation  with. 
There isnt a record that enables me to gauge whether theyd looked in detail at Mr Ks 
existing mortgage  as part of the conversations  held.  If they had looked  at the detailed terms 
of Mr Ks mortgage and had told him how he could reduce the fee payable,  I can see that Mr 
K would have thought this a good  level of customer service. He may have been keen to 
Ref: DRN32184664mitigate the ERC payable in this way. But Im not persuaded that Barclays had a duty to tell 
him about this in what appears to have  been  high level discussions about his options if he 
were to stay with Barclays. 
Mr K has complained that the level of ERC was unfair because it wasnt reflective of the 
costs to Barclays of him repaying his particular mortgage early. Hes concerned that 
Barclays is trying to recover  other  costs through  the ERC, and that he understood this was 
covered by the product  fee when he took out the mortgage. 
As Ive mentioned,  the FCA has rules  concerning  ERCs. In section 12.3.1 of The Mortgages 
and Home Finance:  Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB)  it says an ERC must  be a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a result  of the customer  repaying the amount due 
under the regulated mortgage  contract  before the contract has terminated . Barclays  has 
shared detailed information with us about the costs incurred by it when mortgages such as 
Mr Ks repay within the two year product term. Barclays has asked  that I dont share the 
details of this commercially sensitive information in this decision. 
Ive considered what it says and Ive decided to receive this information in confidence,  as Im 
entitled to do under our rules. In summary,  the information shows that there  are costs 
associated with ending  mortgage rates early, and that those costs were  spread across the 
group of mortgages of which Mr Ks was a part  as the regulations allow.  Im satisfied from 
looking at the information presented to me that the ERC that applied to Mr Ks mortgage did 
reflect Barclays reasonable pre-estimate of its costs when a mortgage of this type breaks 
the contract  early.
Barclays has shown us the calculations for its book of similar mortgages. Again, this is 
permitted in mortgage regulation rather than for Barclays to calculate the costs of Mr Ks 
individual mortgage being repaid on the day it was settled. I consider this to be fair and 
reasonable.
I can understand why Mr K was disappointed with the options  presented  to him by Barclays 
when he wanted  to buy another property. Im pleased that he was able to take out another  
mortgage with a different lender which he felt was more competitive and well suited to his 
needs. This involved repaying  his mortgage  during the term of his tracker product and Mr K 
paid an ERC  for this. Im not persuaded that Barclays acted unfairly by applying the ERC as 
per the terms and conditions of the mortgage  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2021.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3218466