K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society (trading at the time as Staffordshire  Building 
Society) mis-sold  them two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. Ill refer to the 
business as Nationwide in my decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI policies with further advances  on a mortgage  in 1982 and 1987.  
They paid a monthly amount for the policies. Based on everything Ive seen,  including what  
Mr and Mrs B have  told us and copies of some of the paperwork sent after the sales,              
I think that its more likely than not that Mr B was the insured person under both policies.    
The 1982  policy  covered Mr B for unemployment only. The 1987  policy  covered                    
Mr B for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since this sale, there  arent any copies of the 
paperwork completed during the sales processes for me to rely on. Ive also had to rely on 
the nearest relevant policy documents, as well as make some reasonable assumptions  when 
coming to my decision as the exact policy documents arent  available.  
Nationwide have sent a range of documents that seem to have been sent after the sale, for 
example - insurance  certificates. Some of the documents that Nationwide  have said would 
show Mr and Mrs Bs consent to taking out the policies arent  of the best quality and barely 
legible in parts, so Ive not placed  much weight on them when coming to my decision. 
Nationwide arent  too sure about  how these polices were sold. Mr and Mrs B have said they 
think that they were  sold during phone calls.  Ive kept this in mind when coming to my 
decision. 
A number  of points have  been raised about  Mrs Bs circumstances meaning  in her opinion,  
that the policies were  unsuitable. Whilst Ive kept this in mind,  it doesnt seem that Mrs B was 
covered by either policy.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because:
Unfortunately, but understandably, after such a long period of time there  arent any call 
recordings or call transcripts available from either sale.  Its also possible that 
Mr and Mrs B might  not recall  everything so clearly  after so long but I appreciate them  
taking the time to tell us about other  life events that happened around the time these 
policies were taken  out.
Ref: DRN39239772There are also no copies  of documents available to me from the time of the sales, which 
I can safely rely on. This isnt surprising considering the sales took place over 30 years 
ago. So its difficult to know how the policies were positioned with Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B have  mentioned that they were  pressured into taking the policies. But 
pressure can be subjective and what feels like pressure to one person may not to 
another. Ive noted that Mrs B has said; The decision was made  out of unwarranted 
pursuation during a worrying time for me when the advisor  informed me that I should  
think about redundancy due to the fact I may not return to work. This put unnecessary 
doubt into my mind but I undertook  the policy out of worry rather than requirement.      
But Ive not seen evidence to support that Mr and Mrs B were  pressured into taking  PPI.       
In order for me to uphold this complaint for this reason, Id have to think that 
Mr and Mrs Bs account was more likely than that of Nationwide. But as these events 
happened so long ago and as theres  no documentary evidence  to support either partys 
position, I have  to conclude that Mr and Mrs Bs account is only as likely not more likely . 
Ive also kept in mind  that Mr and Mrs B successfully took out their mortgage prior to 
taking PPI with the further advances and took out a lower  level of cover  - unemployment  
only with the 1982 policy. So, on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policies  
werent presented  as optional or that they werent  given a choice to take PPI with the 
further advances.
I dont think that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did still have to give him good enough information about  the PPI 
policies so that he could decide  if he wanted  to take them  out 
As I dont know what exactly was discussed, in fairness to Mr and Mrs B Ive assumed 
that Nationwide couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs B would still have bought it.
I say this because  I think, based on what Ive been told about  Mr Bs circumstances, if he 
was made  unemployed (the 1982 policy)  or was made  unemployed or unable to work  
because of sickness (the 1987 policy) then he could  have  found it useful based on his 
existing means. 
For example, based on Mr Bs length of employment  for both sales, I think  its 
reasonable to assume that his redundancy entitlement may have been limited. Ive also 
considered his other means such as Mr Bs sick pay, but the 1987  policy  could have paid 
out for up to 18 months for an accident or sickness claim. Although  Mr and Mrs B have 
told us about other  insurance policies they had around the time that they were  sold PPI,    
I dont think that the other policies are directly  comparable  to the PPI policies or that they 
mean that they didnt have a need  for PPI. 
Its also possible that Nationwide  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But Mr B doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including  what  theyve said about  the 
second PPI policy being sold approximately three years before the end of their initial  
borrowing. But I still think that Mr and Mrs B could have benefited from having the PPI.     
I say this because  it seems that Mr B would still have been able to claim on the PPI and 
it wasnt paid for a lump  sum premium but instead monthly  so it could be cancelled at 
Ref: DRN39239773any time without Mr and Mrs B losing out if the mortgage was repaid, their circumstances 
changed or they no longer  wanted  the PPI. So these points dont change my decision.     
I know that this wont be the outcome that Mr or Mrs B wanted, but I genuinely thank  
them for all of the time and effort that theyve  put into their complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  made reference to trying to make  a claim on the policy some time after it 
was taken out. My decision doesnt deal with any attempted  claim,  but if Mr B was unwell 
and unable to work  during the period  when  he had the policy,  he has the option of speaking 
to Nationwide  about the possibility of making a back dated claim. But I also appreciate that it 
may be difficult for Mr B to show medical records from so long ago to support any claim.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their PPI  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3923977