K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs D. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  Barclays sold Mrs D the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card in a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs D and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
I think Barclays made Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional   the form that Mrs D signed 
set out the PPI as a choice and she had to mark the form to say she either accepted or 
rejected PPI. .
Mrs D has said she was, in effect,  pressurised into taking the PPI. She says she was told 
she wouldnt  be accepted  for the card she wanted  without  taking out PPI, because 
consumers who took out Barclays PPI were  seen as a far lesser risk. However this did all 
happen about 18 years  ago, and I wouldnt be surprising if Mrs D didnt remember  the exact 
detail of what was said. And without  stronger evidence  of exactly  what was said, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to conclude  that Barclays acted wrongly in this way. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs D, which means it had to check  that the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs Ds individual situation and needs. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped  pay 
the credit  card bill for a period longer  than Mrs Ds employer sick pay and other resources 
lasted. And it would have  paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so 
leaving Mrs D more financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mrs D wouldnt need 
to fall back on other resources so soon. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant 
see any other reason  why the recommendation was unsuitable.
So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful and I think a recommendation would have been 
appropriate. 
Mrs Ds representatives have said Mrs D:
believes the benefit would have been insignificant and insists  she would never have 
needed to claim on the policy. In addition, she has expressed that the policy was 
pointless to her because, in the worst  case,  the consequences of not being able to 
afford her Credit  Card  repayments were fairly minor. 
Ref: DRN30738252However these factors  wouldnt, in themselves, make a recommendation of PPI unsuitable. 
The question of whether the PPI was worth  the cost would have been one for Mrs D to 
answer. 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I dont think, 
in her circumstances,  better  information  about costs  and benefits is likely to have 
significantly affected whether she took the PPI. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell 
Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs D any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3073825