K820x#14Complaint
Mr D has complained about a loan Loans  2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly  lent him this loan as he couldnt afford the monthly payments.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and L2G had told us. And he thought  that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Mr D disagreed  and asked 
for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible  lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr D could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what  we typically  think  about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think  its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough   in terms of how much  information it
gathers and what it does  to verify  it  in the early  stages  of a lending  relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr D with a loan for £250  in June 2018. It had an APR of 990.1%  and
was to due be repaid  in 18 instalments of £56.64, which meant  the total amount to be repaid 
was £1,019.52. 
L2G says it agreed  to Mr Ds application after he provided details of his monthly income  and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit  search  it carried out 
on Mr D. 
The information Mr D provided  about his income and expenditure showed hed be
able to comfortably  make the repayments  he was committing to. But it, in any event,
adjusted Mr Ds expenditure declaration to account for the outstanding credit  and this still
showed the required payments were affordable. L2G says, in these  circumstances it was
reasonable to lend.  On the other hand,  Mr D has said he was in financial difficulty  and 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr D and L2G have  said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Mr Ds first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr D was 
asked to provide  details  of his income  and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what  it 
was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too
Ref: DRN39317792alarming (there was a history of some  settled payday loans and a historic  default), Mr Ds 
lack of any previous  lending  with L2G and the low monthly repayments,  I dont  think it was 
unreasonable for L2G to rely on the payments  being  affordable  as, on the face of things, 
they did appear to be.
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances arent reflected in the information gathered and 
that he was going through  a really difficult time. Its also possible that the reason why Mr D 
might not have been able to repay might have been  clearer if L2G had considered  his bank 
statements. But L2G could only make its decision based on the information it had available  
at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think  proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into L2G asking Mr D to provide his bank statements.
Equally its only fair and reasonable  for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case,  I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Mr D - it carried out proportionate  checks even though its looks like the information
it was provided with didnt tell the whole story. L2G reasonably  relied on this information and 
given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of history with Mr D, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan.
Ive also thought about what  Mr D has said about the terms of this loan. The amount he is 
being expected to repay can only be described by any reasonable observer as eye-watering.  
I appreciate making  payments will be difficult and sympathise with Mr D  especially as he 
was going through a very difficult period  at the time he was provided  with this loan. 
But the credit agreement makes no attempt to disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just 
how egregious  these terms are. And as Mr D accepted these terms, the payments  appeared 
affordable and there isnt anything on file, at least, to demonstrate L2G actively took 
advantage of Mr Ds position (the credit search, or anything  else didnt set out the full extent 
of Mr Ds position or difficulties), overall I find that L2G didnt unfairly  provide  this loan given 
all the circumstances.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns  have been listened  to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint,  I would remind  L2G of its obligation to exercise
forbearance in light of Mr Ds apparent  difficulty repaying this loan, should  it choose to collect 
payments from him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3931779