K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 to 
cover a mortgage the policy  was amended with a further advance taken in 2006.  Miss G 
says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  Miss G aware  that the PPI policy was optional  and gain her consent 
before adding it to her mortgage. There is limited information available  from the time the 
policy was sold, but this isnt unusual considering the time thats passed since  the sale took 
place, and businesses  arent required to keep  this type of information indefinitely. But 
NatWest has shown  us that Miss G completed a direct debit  mandate  separately from her 
mortgage to pay for the policy. And by 2006 when the policy  was amended with a further 
advance the policy had already been in place  for several years so I think Miss G would have 
known that having the policy  wasnt a condition of her mortgage. So I think NatWest  made it 
clear that Miss G didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Miss G so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss G got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Miss G has told us she was entitled  to 12 months full sick pay when she took the policy  but 
was unaware of the benefit at the time. She also had savings and could have relied on other 
people in the house to help make her repayments. As Miss G wasnt aware of her sick pay 
benefits at the time I am unable to say the benefit would have changed  her mind about 
taking the policy.  In any event the PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Gs sick pay.
The policy would also have allowed Miss G to keep her savings in place to be used towards  
other essential expenses. While  the other people in Miss Gs household would have wanted 
to help, their ability  to would have been  dependent on their circumstances at the time, which 
could have changed. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Gs circumstances at the time, she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI so I think  she could have 
benefited from the policy.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss G has said - but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN31085562Ive also thought about the commission Miss G paid on her policy   and whether NatWest  
treated her unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Miss Gs policy  was less than half of what they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Miss Gs commission was less than half the cost 
of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think NatWest treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Miss G back  any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before Miss G.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3108556