K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, which means  she cant open a bank  account  elsewhere.
background
Mrs J received payments  into her account that were reported as fraudulently  obtained. The 
first was for £3,120 on 10 March 2018  and Mrs J transferred this out using a money  transfer 
service on 11 March  2018. She then received £500 on 15 March 2018.  She spent this. Mrs J 
says that the first payment  was for a loan from a friend but that she decided she couldnt  
afford it and sent it back. She says that the second payment was her money.
Barclays decided that Mrs J had knowingly been  in receipt of fraudulent funds  and closed 
her account.  It also registered  the marker  at CIFAS.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He had asked Mrs J to 
explain why if the first payment had been a loan she didnt want she hadnt returned it to the 
same account it came  from. And why she thought she was entitled to the further £500 which 
had come from the same source. Mrs J said she had health issues  affecting  her memory and 
couldnt provide  any more  information.  He thought that Barclays  had shown that the criteria 
for recording a CIFAS  marker had been met.
Mrs J didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point,  Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show  it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud  or financial crime had been committed  or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported  to the authorities.
Ive seen the evidence from Barclays confirming that both these payments were  reported as 
fraudulently obtained by the senders bank. Ive looked at the notes that Barclays  made 
when it discussed  the payments with Mrs J at the time when her memory  of events was most 
likely fresher. She declined to provide the name  of the friend who she says gave her the 
loan. There is no evidence to support  this being  a loan and Mrs J hasnt been able to provide 
any more information  to this service  about  what happened.  Mrs J has no evidence  about her 
being asked to send the funds on using a payment transfer service. Im afraid  I dont find  
Mrs Js account of what happened to be credible. In addition Mrs J has no explanation  of 
why the same person would send her £500. I dont see that she could  reasonably think  that 
this money was hers and that she could spend it as she did.
Barclays blocked her account  and having  investigated what happened wrote to her on 5 April 
2018 saying her account would be closed.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because  Mrs J received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So Ive looked at whether  Barclays was fair to apply the marker,  based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
Ref: DRN37842742have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard  of proof  set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs  to have enough information  to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there  are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed,  rather than mere suspicion.  
Having reviewed Mrs Js account  of events and the evidence Barclays  has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays  had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker  to be recorded.  In 
coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons:
-Mrs J received fraudulent funds  into his account  and didnt report  this to Barclays at 
the time and only contacted it when her account  was blocked.
-She authorised  the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
-Barclays had reasonable grounds  to believe that Mrs J had used fraudulently 
obtained funds  based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate the difficulties  Mrs J has been  having in opening an account at another bank but 
I dont have any basis to ask Barclays to remove the marker.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3784274