K821x#15complaint
Mrs L and Mr L have  complained about  esure  Insurance Limited.  They are unhappy with the 
repairs carried out to Mrs Ls car after she was involved in an incident and made a claim 
under her car insurance policy.  
background
Mrs L said she was turning into her road when another  driver  accelerated  to overtake.  The 
other driver misjudged their manoeuvre and collided  into the rear of her car. She made a 
claim to her insurer,  esure.
Mr L on behalf of Mrs L complained to esure.  He said he took their car multiple times to the 
approved repairer  (AR) and other garages as he was unhappy with the quality of the repairs. 
He was told by other  garages that a suspension  fault with the car was incident related 
damage. But esure didnt agree.  
An independent assessor (IA) recommended  a number  of rectification repairs to the rear of 
Mrs Ls car. But he didnt  agree  that suspension  damage had been caused by the incident.  
So esure didnt  agree to those repairs. 
Our investigator thought on balance that the suspension issue  was incident related damage.  
So he recommended  that esure cover the costs to repair  the suspension damage. If Mrs L 
and Mr L have already  paid for these repairs, it should reimburse  them and pay interest at 
8% simple  interest a year.
esure didnt  agree. Its engineer said the damage  was fairly minor,  and no suspension 
damage was found. A wheel alignment report was done and all readings  were within  
tolerance which proved  no damage. A rear shock absorber had already been replaced  which  
suggests theres an issue and internet forums say there are known issues  with shock  
absorber failings  for the make of Mrs Ls car. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
The circumstances of the incident as Mrs L described to esure  suggest  she was turning  or 
at least her steering  wheel was turning  when the impact happened. 
The initial repairs were carried out to the area of the rear bumper. Photos show the impact 
was to the offside  rear of the car. 
Mr L said the suspension wasnt right when her car was returned to her form the approved 
repairer and the repairs  were poorly carried out. An IA agreed that the repairs  should be 
rectified but didnt  agree  the suspension issue was incident related damage. 
Ref: DRN34185592Mr L took the car to two garages  for a second  opinion. Both told him they believed the 
suspension damage was caused  by the incident. The dealership  garage reported  the 
following:
the shaft of the shock absorber is bent; noise has been on vehicle since  accident
repair and this has been caused by the accident and missed from the repair carried 
out.
There isnt anything on the initial report to show me the shock  absorbers were  checked by 
the approved  repairer. I cant rely on the wheel alignment tolerance as proof  alone  that there 
was no damage.  Clearly  there was damage identified by the dealership  garage.  
Its entirely possible for a rear impact collision  to cause damage to shock absorbers  
particularly if the steering  wheel was turned at an angle when hit from behind.  The damage  
to Mrs Ls car was to the rear offside and the dealership examined the offside rear shock 
absorber. 
So I think that the report provided  by the dealership garage carries more  weight and on 
balance, the suspension damage was caused by the incident. This means I think  esure  
should cover  the costs  for the suspension  repairs. If Mr and Mrs L have already paid these, 
then subject to proof  of payment and invoice  esure should reimburse Mr and Mrs L and 
pay interest at 8%. 
The first set of repairs carried out to Mrs Ls car was poor and rectification repairs  were 
needed. Mr and Mrs L then went to the trouble of taking their car to two garages  because of 
the remaining  suspension problem. I think theyve been put to some  inconvenience and in 
obtaining reports to support  their complaint to esure.
For this I think  esure should compensate them by paying £250 compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require esure  Insurance Limited to do the following:
Cover the costs to repair the suspension damage under the March 2019  claim.
If Mr and Mrs L have already paid for these repairs, esure should reimburse them  
subject to reasonable proof. esure should pay interest at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year from the date of payment to the date it reimburses Mr and Mrs L.
Pay Mr and Mrs L £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused. 
esure Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs L accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest  
on the compensation from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a simple 
rate of 8% a year.
If esure  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN34185593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3418559