K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) marketing promotion of protection 
of the No Claims Bonus (NCB) under his motor  policy wasnt applied  to his circumstances. 
background
Mr J had a policy with UKI from 22 August 2017 to 22 August 2018. His car, when parked 
outside his house, sustained damage  from an unknown other driver on 12 April 2018.  
Naturally, Mr J had to make a claim  to repair the damage. UKI said unfortunately it would be 
a claim on his policy, which meant his NCB was effectively lost. 
Following his claim, Mr J saw UKIs marketing promotion and complained  to UKI that it 
hadnt been applied to him. UKI said this had come into force some days  after Mr Js car was 
damaged, and sadly consequently didnt apply to his claim. It noted Mr J hadnt received the 
letter it had sent to all existing customers explaining when this benefit began  and that it had 
initially delayed with his complaint so it paid him £50 compensation.
Mr J remained  dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think UKI 
had done anything wrong. Mr J remained dissatisfied so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I understand and appreciate that Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, however it is 
clear this benefit would  not have helped Mr J as it only applied  to incidents that happened on 
or after 18 April 2018 and sadly Mr Js incident occurred on 12 April 2018.
UKI has shown us it sent a letter to all its existing customers outlining this new benefit. And 
its possible Mr J didnt receive  his. But even if he had, it wouldnt  have made any difference  
as his incident was before the date this benefit  could be applied.  
Its really unfortunate  for Mr J, but I dont  consider  its unreasonable for UKI to have imposed 
such a date for when  this benefit applied, which was clearly applied  without  any reference to 
Mr Js case. Theres no evidence whatsoever that UKI specifically applied the date this 
benefit was effective to Mr Js detriment. Its just a fact that Mr Js incident occurred before 
the benefit was due to start.  
UKI recognised it had caused Mr J some trouble and upset for which  it paid him £50 
compensation. I consider that reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Ref: DRN38215232Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3821523