K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds), for declining  her claim for damage to a 
garage roof. She wants Lloyds to reconsider  her claim and to settle the claim on the basis  of 
the value of the roof which was damaged.
background
Mrs E has held buildings insurance with Lloyds since  late 2017. This insurance covered 
damage to buildings and outbuildings at her home up to a maximum value.
One of the risks insured  under the policy was damage due to storm, flood or weight of snow. 
In early March 2018, Mrs Es home  area experienced heavy  snowfall over a period of days. 
Mrs E later noticed that her garage  roof looked  strange, and appeared to have collapsed 
in places.
On 3 April 2018,  Mrs E submitted a claim for her garage roof to Lloyds. Lloyds arranged for 
a contractor to attend Mrs Es property and review the damage.
The contractor attended Mrs Es home on 23 April 2018 and assessed the condition of the garage 
roof. The contractor prepared a report for Lloyds which Lloyds received shortly afterwards.
The report  identified damage  to roof sheets caused by corrosion and bevelling  to the roof 
edges. The report identified that the roof sheets,  sarking and joints  needed to be replaced,  
and concluded  that these  had been  damaged by water ingressing through the roof sheets 
due to corrosion.
Mrs E called Lloyds for an update on her claim  on 30 April 2018. She was advised  that an 
estimate for repairs was not yet reviewed  and that she would be contacted soon to arrange a 
repair date.
Shortly after this call, Lloyds wrote to Mrs E, declining  her claim. The letter  set out that the 
damage had been  caused by deterioration of the roof due to wear and tear, which was 
excluded from the policys cover.
Mrs E complained to Lloyds. She felt that there had been an exceptional weight of snow  and 
that this should be covered.
Lloyds sent its final response to Mrs E in October  2018. It reiterated its view that the 
damage was caused by wear and tear and was not covered, but acknowledged that Mrs E 
had been given the impression during  her call that the claim would be covered. Lloyds 
therefore offered  Mrs E £50 compensation for this service failing.
Mrs E was not happy with this response and contacted us. She felt that, even if the condition  
of the roof had been poor there had still been  an insured event and so she felt Lloyds 
should make  her an offer of settlement, even if this was reduced to reflect  the poor condition 
and age of the roof before the snowfall.
Ref: DRN39175362One of our investigators  looked into her complaint and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that he considered that a garage  roof similar to Mrs Es garage would not have been 
damaged by the volume of snow that fell in March  2018, and he thought  Lloyds had acted 
fairly in rejecting the claim  as the evidence showed that the roof had been in poor condition.  
He therefore did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mrs E did not accept this view. She accepted that the roof was old but considered  that it would 
still be in situ if the snow had not caused  further damage.  She considered that a fairer approach 
would be for Lloyds to split the costs 50/50  to reflect the fact that the roof had been  old.
The complaint was therefore  passed  for an ombudsman  decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision referred to the report of the contractor who assessed the garage roof 
in late April 2018, and the photographs of the roof provided with the report.
Mrs E had reported that the roof of the garage  looked different after the snowfall, and that 
some supports had broken. She described  this to our service  as the roof having  caved in.
The photographs provided by Lloyds show the roof in place  after the snowfall, although  it 
appears to sag on one side, towards  the edge  of the roof, where a supporting joist would be 
underneath it.
The photographs include closer photographs  showing the edges  of the roof, and these 
photographs show considerable corrosion, and gaps at the edges of the roofing sheets.
Lloyds report discusses  the damage  to the roof as being Roof sheets corroded. It states that 
Water was ingressing through the roof sheets  due to them being corroded.  The roof is in very 
poor condition, approximately 40 years old. In our opinion the damage is not storm related.
There is no mention in the contractor report of any collapse of the roof, or of any joists  having 
given way under pressure. It states that the roof sheets, sarking and joints  need to be replaced.
The correspondence from Lloyds makes  clear that Mrs Es policy  does not extend to 
damage resulting  from gradual  deterioration / maintenance  Any loss or damage caused 
by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects  of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot 
or fungus and costs  that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of Your  
Buildings and its Contents.
Lloyds, relying on the contractors  report,  considered that the damage had been caused by 
wear and tear.
This suggested to Mrs E there  could  have been two causes of the damage,  one being wear 
and tear (which  was not covered) and the other being the weight of snow (which was 
covered). She thought  that, if that were the case,  then Lloyds should  make a reduced offer.
I made  further enquiries with Lloyds regarding its decision, and Lloyds  responded that in its 
view the damage its contractor had identified had been entirely caused by wear and tear and 
the ingress of water  due to corrosion to the roof sheets.
Ref: DRN39175363Lloyds therefore  concluded that no damage  was caused by the storm and the weight of snow, 
and so there was no damage resulting from an insured risk on which to make an offer.
I thought that this conclusion was supported, and was a reasonable decision. I thought that 
Mrs E would need to provide evidence demonstrating that additional damage was caused by 
the snow, before it would be reasonable to expect Lloyds to reconsider its decision.
I did not think, however, that Lloyds  had clearly communicated  the reasoning for its decision to 
Mrs E so I thought that Lloyds should  pay Mrs E a further £50 compensation for her 
inconvenience (in addition to the £50 it paid her for mismanaging her expectations during a call).
Responses to my provisional decision
I have not received any comments  from Mrs E in response to my provisional  decision, but 
Lloyds has submitted comments. 
Lloyds argues that Mrs E was told, both by phone and by letter,  that there was no evidence  of 
any storm damage. Lloyds therefore did not consider  that any further  compensation was justified. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Storm 
I have listened  again to the available phone call that Lloyds provided, and I have reviewed 
the written evidence. 
I do not agree with the argument  by Lloyds that Mrs E was told clearly  that there was no 
evidence of storm damage. The telephone call does not discuss  the merits of the claim, and 
was only about  when the claim would  be progressed.  
The final response  letter noted that the roof was suffering from corrosion,  and stated In our 
opinion the damage is not storm related.
This is not the same as saying  that there was no evidence of any damage resulting from the 
storm, and it left open the possibility that the damage (which was apparently understood 
differently by both sides)  may have  been contributed to by the storm or weight of snow. 
Consequently I can see why Mrs E believed that she may still have a valid claim. 
I therefore maintain  my view that the decision of Lloyds to deny Mrs Es claim, was not 
clearly communicated  to her, and that this led to her believing that some part of her claim 
should be paid.  
I have not seen any arguments  or evidence which alter my provisional view that it was 
reasonable to decline  the claim for the garage roof, due to the sole cause of damage being 
wear and tear. Consequently, I am satisfied that Lloyds  was reasonable in its decision to 
decline Ms Es claim. 
Ref: DRN39175364Compensation 
Even taking  into account the additional comments from Lloyds, I remain of the view that 
Lloyds failed to clearly communicate to Mrs E why her claim was declined. I therefore  
maintain my provisional  decision, that Lloyds should  pay a further £50 compensation to 
Mrs E for not communicating clearly with her, and for causing  her distress and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold in part Mrs Es complaint that The Society  of Lloyds 
provided unclear  communication to Mrs E. 
I direct  The Society of Lloyds to pay to Mrs E a further £50 compensation for her distress  
and inconvenience.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
*The  Society of Lloyds  must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation  
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN3917536