K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs C a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out loans in 1995, 1996  and 1998; and at the same time single premium 
PPI policies were set up to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added  to 
each loan and interest charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed and so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
The sales  took place  more than 20 years ago and there are no documents surviving  about  
the loan or sale of PPI  apart from some records of the basic  cost of each and sample 
documents probably used at the time.  Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so many years ago when the application was made. Ive borne in 
mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 During the application  process, it seems almost certain  thered have been  a discussion 
about the amount of loan needed  and its purpose, and the totals payable. I think  there  
must have been  some reference  to the PPI premium amount in the overall loan and 
some discussion  during the loan application  process; and so I think it very unlikely  
Mr and Mrs C would have had no awareness of it. I also dont have strong evidence to 
suggest that Nationwide didnt make  Mr and Mrs C aware  of the PPI, or that it implied it 
was compulsory. 
General information  available to the ombudsman service about Nationwides practices 
at this time supports this. And so, on balance I think it likely Nationwide did make 
Mr and Mrs C aware  and offer a choice about taking  the PPI.
 It looks likely that Nationwide didnt  advise Mr and Mrs C to take the PPI. So this 
means it didnt have to check  if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
circumstances. But even  if it did advise  them  to take it, I dont have any clear evidence 
that the PPI was unsuitable  in their circumstances. 
 I dont have enough information to say how well the true costs of the PPI, including  
interest, were explained to Mr and Mrs C. But the premium would almost certainly have 
been shown on the loan agreement in some way. And I think the cost of the premium  
Ref: DRN39954462compared to the overall loan, and the likely  interest  on the premium, probably wouldnt 
have put Mr and Mrs C off taking the PPI, even if it had been fully explained. 
 Its possible that Nationwide didnt clearly point out what  the PPI wouldnt cover  but I 
cant see that Mr and Mrs C would have  been  significantly affected by this. 
Overall I dont have enough evidence that Mr and Mrs C were  mis-sold  PPI by Nationwide.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3995446