K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy a claim he made under his travel insurance policy has been declined  by 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
background
Mr S was due to fly back from Paris. Due to delays on the way to the airport, Mr S missed 
his flight.
Mr S purchased new flights for the following day and made a claim to Aviva  for the cost of 
the new tickets. However Aviva declined the claim on the basis  it wasnt  covered under Mr S 
policy.
Mr S made a complaint to Aviva  and their decision remained the same.  As Mr S was 
unhappy with Avivas response  he approached  this service.
Our investigator looked at everything  but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the terms 
and conditions of Mr S policy didnt cover  what had happened, so he wasnt  able to ask 
Aviva to pay the claim.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr S was travelling to the airport  and he says that due to traffic  and delays, this caused him 
to miss his flight as he only arrived moments before the flight  was due to leave. 
Having looked  under the policy terms for Mr S policy, the section that would apply here 
would be Missed International  Departure. This says:
If you arrive  too late at your point of international departure  to check in/or board 
your transport as a direct  result of:
1.Delay or cancellation to scheduled  public transport services  or a connecting 
scheduled flight; or
2.Accidental damage to, or breakdown of the vehicle  in which you are travelling.
We will pay up to the limits  shown on your  policy schedule for extra travel and 
accommodation costs  you have to pay to reach your:
a)destination on your outward journey from the UK; or
b)home  on your  return  journey.
Ref: DRN39491902I understand that Mr S was travelling  to the airport by taxi, so I dont think this would be on 
scheduled public transport such as a bus or train. So whilst there  was a delay in reaching  the 
airport, this part of the missed departure cover  wouldnt  apply.
The other part of the missed  departure section says that the vehicle being  travelled in, a taxi 
in this case, needed to have either had accidental damage to it, or broken down. Neither of 
these circumstances  resulted in the flight being missed, so again  this part of the policy  cover  
wouldnt apply.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr S, his travel insurance policy doesnt cover the circumstances 
which he found himself  in, so I cant ask Aviva to reimburse the additional flight costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3949190