K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  because  they reduced  the credit  limit on 
his credit card without giving him notice. And hes unhappy with how they handled  his 
complaint about  this.
background 
Following a separate complaint about his credit  card, Mr C asked Lloyds to close his account 
in October 2016.
Lloyds carried out this request, but also reduced the credit limit from £2,000 to £200  and 
Mr C says he wasnt given an explanation or notice  it was going to happen,  which he thought 
should be 60 days.
In response, Lloyds  say they reduced the credit  limit as part of their account closure process 
 and didnt need to give Mr C any notice. Theyve also said the account was closed on the 
same day the credit  limit was reduced.
Mr C also says hes unhappy as four different  people contacted him about the complaint he 
raised. Lloyds have explained  that they will make several attempts to call a consumer  and 
that might  be different  people, depending on who is available. But once theyve made 
contact, that individual will take ownership of the complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds had been fair in their answer. Mr C didnt agree  so the 
complaint has passed to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  I know Mr C feels strongly  about whats happened,  so I think its 
likely hell be disappointed by this. But Ive explained my reasoning  below.
There seems  to be no dispute that Mr C wanted to close his account.  Ive also seen 
information he sent to us on a different complaint  which says he was preparing to close  it. So 
I think Lloyds were  correct in closing his account.
As Ive noted above, Lloyds have said that reducing  the credit limit is part of their process for 
closing accounts.  Theyve  also said this is a risk based decision they apply when consumers 
have said they no longer  want  to use an account  and I think  that seems  a reasonable 
approach to apply.  Its not clear why Lloyds  felt they needed to reduce  the credit  limit in       
Mr Cs case, as they closed his account on the same  day  so I cant  see there was a risk he 
might use the account. But I dont  think  this makes a difference to my answer, as whether 
Lloyds had reduced Mr Cs credit limit or not, he wouldnt have been able to use it. So,          
I dont think Mr C has lost out in any way.
Ive looked at terms and conditions for Mr Cs account  to see if it says anything about  
giving notice when  reducing the credit limit on an account
Under section 1, it does  say Lloyds will give notice if the credit limit is reduced  but there  is 
no defined timescale  for this. And, as Ive said already, because  Mr Cs account closed on 
Ref: DRN32792732the same  day, there was no impact  for him when the credit limit was reduced. Further, Mr C 
was informed of both his account closure and the reduction in credit limit.
Under section 18  about ending the agreement  it also says that the consumer must stop 
making transactions once they ask for the account  to be closed. So, I think Lloyds were safe 
to assume that  having given notice  to close his account  Mr C would no longer be using it. 
And  as hed paid off the balance as well  he wouldnt need any level of credit on it.
So, I think Lloyds have  acted reasonably  when  reducing Mr Cs credit limit after he asked 
them to close his account. And Ive not seen anything to suggest hes lost out because  of 
this.
Mr C has also said he wasnt happy  about  being contacted by four different people after hed 
complained. But from what  Ive seen, I think Lloyds were trying to contact him to resolve  
matters quickly  and I think  their explanation of why different people called is reasonable.    
I can also see that once  a member of staff got through to him, Mr C asked that he receive an 
answer in writing  and Lloyds did exactly that. Ive not seen any evidence to show they rang 
him further  about  this.
So, I think Lloyds acted  reasonably when dealing with Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint against  Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3279273