K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Lloyds  Bank  plc has handled her Platinum account.   
background
Mrs G had a business  account, a credit  card and a Platinum  current account with Lloyds. 
This complaint concerns  her current account,  although some  of the issues shes raised  are 
relevant to the other accounts as well. 
Some years  ago Mrs G began  to struggle financially and contacted Lloyds to see how it 
could help. She asked that all her accounts be merged, so she could set up a single 
repayment plan.  Lloyds didnt agree to that. 
In May 2018  she asked  that interest  and charges be suspended. Lloyds didnt respond to 
that request  until August 2018,  when it agreed to it; the bank refunded  charges back  to the 
time of Mrs Gs request,  some three  months earlier. It paid her a further £150 by way of 
apology. 
Mrs G offered to repay her outstanding overdraft on the account  at a rate of £30 a month. 
Lloyds didnt agree  to that, however. It considered that Mrs Gs difficulties were long-term 
and so it would be more appropriate to close the account, stop any further charges and 
make formal demand for repayment.  Mrs G would then be able to discuss the next steps  
with the banks Recoveries department. 
Mrs G remained  unhappy, however. She thought  that all her accounts should  be managed 
together, so she had one point of contact.  She also asked if the bank could continue to send  
her monthly statements and that it stop using external  businesses  to manage her debt. The 
bank said that these were  matters  for it to decide.
Mrs G referred  her complaint  to this service, along with her complaints about the other 
accounts she had with Lloyds. One of our investigators considered  what shed said but 
thought that  with one exception  the bank had treated  Mrs G fairly. He agreed that the 
bank should not have  added fees in May 2018, but noted that it had refunded these. But he 
also thought that the bank hadnt responded  adequately to some  of Mrs Gs letters; he 
thought it should pay her a further £75 in recognition of that. 
Lloyds agreed  to the investigators recommendation, but Mrs G didnt, and asked  that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Much of Mrs Gs complaint concerns the decisions  that Lloyds has taken about  the handling 
of her account. For example, shes unhappy  that the bank wont consolidate her debts 
across her accounts or arrange  a single point of contact. But these are really matters for 
Lloyds to decide; theyre commercial decisions about how the bank structures and arranges 
its business and the departments within it. This service  wont generally intervene  in such 
matters, as long as a financial  business  has made  its commercial decisions for legitimate  
Ref: DRN34470412reasons. I can understand why Mrs G would prefer things to be arranged differently, but I 
dont believe  it would  be appropriate for me to require that. 
I make  similar observations about Mrs Gs request for monthly statements. Theres  no 
obligation on Lloyds  to provide them  although  it should of course be able to explain  clearly 
what is owed and how its arrived  at its figures.  
Lloyds acknowledged  that it had added  fees when it should not have done, but it corrected 
that error  and paid Mrs G some compensation for it. And when our investigator took the view 
that it should pay more compensation for the way it responded to some  of Mrs Gs letters,  it 
agreed to his recommendation that it pay a further  £75. For clarity, however, I will make  a 
formal award of that sum.  But I dont believe Lloyds  need do anything  more to compensate  
Mrs G. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mrs Gs complaint, Lloyds Bank  plc should pay 
Mrs G £75. Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3447041