K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc gave him wrong information about his account.
background
Mr M said that Santander had given  him information  that he relied on in managing  his 
finances. But that information turned out to be wrong. 
Mr M said that Santander had told him in December 2017 that he needed to make a 
minimum payment of only £40 to avoid a default  on his account, when in fact he needed to 
pay over £400. And it had told him in January 2018 that the account had been defaulted, 
and no further  action would be taken to get the money back. He said that Santander told him 
he could just make ad hoc payments when he wanted to, in order to pay off the debt. But 
that wasnt true either, because Santander  has since  instructed debt recovery agents to get 
the money back. 
Mr M has repeatedly told Santander that if hed been properly advised on the phone  about 
what was going  to happen,  hed have borrowed money to avoid the default. He has told 
Santander that he didnt get any of the default  letters it sent.
Mr M said that he either wanted the default notice to be removed from his credit  file and the 
account reactivated, or an agreement to pay, with compensation for the injury  caused and 
the impairment to his credit file. 
Santander said it had written to Mr M on 24 November 2017 with a default notice. He owed 
£236.57 then.  
Santander said that when Mr M called it in December,  it did tell him that a payment of £40 
would bring his account up to date. It made a mistake about  that, the actual amount was 
then £405.55.  Santander said that it no longer  had the call recording from the call Mr M 
made in November, but it had the notes.  And those said that Mr M wasnt in a position to pay 
because he was still off work at the time. 
Santander said that it also shouldve told him when he called in January that it would be 
passing the debt to third party agents  to collect  it. 
Santander paid Mr M £100  to say sorry for the wrong information it had given him. But 
Santander also said that it had told him in December that his account was going to be 
defaulted, and it had told him in January that there was already  a default on his file. 
Santander said that the only thing  it had done  wrong on Mr Ms account was to add a further 
£12 late fee to his account at the same time as it closed it. It said it would pay that back.  But 
it didnt think that it was wrong to default his account. It said that he would have to discuss  
with the collections  agents how he could pay the money back. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said she could see that Mr M had told 
Santander about the problems he was having several months  earlier. And Santander had 
acted to support  Mr M by waiving interest,  charges  and fees for almost a year. She said that 
shed seen the letters Santander issued to tell Mr M about the position of his account and the 
upcoming default. Although hed been given some wrong advice on the phone, he shouldve  
known the position of his account from those letters. 
Ref: DRN30830372Our adjudicator said that Santander had supported  Mr M when he was in financial 
difficulties. It had then said sorry for its mistakes, and had paid Mr M £100 to make up for the 
wrong information it had provided on the phone. She thought  that provided a fair outcome to 
this complaint. 
Mr M didnt  agree with that. He said that he was told in December that he only had to make a 
payment of £40 to bring his account up to date. He said that hed relied on that information  
as being accurate, and the most up to date information available from the most credible 
source. He said that if hed been  advised differently,  he wouldve acted differently. He said 
that such a glaring error shouldnt be set aside. He said that this hasnt been sorted out, and 
he wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman. 
Our adjudicator didnt  change her mind, she still thought that Mr M wouldve been aware of 
the arrears on his account from the letters hed received.  This complaint was then passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator.
Mr M had told Santander about his financial  difficulties. He hadnt made any payment onto 
his account since  January  2017.  Santander  had waived all charges on his account for some 
time, to support Mr M. But I wouldnt expect it to do that indefinitely.  So I dont think  that 
Santander made a mistake when it decided to default Mr Ms credit card account, in late 
2017. 
Mr M said he didnt  get the letters Santander sent about the default, and he relied  instead  on 
the information that Santander had given him over the phone.  But what  he says Santander 
told him in December is that he only needed  to pay £40 to avoid a default. When he rang 
again, almost a month later,  he doesnt seem to have  actually  made that payment. So I do 
think Santander gave  him some wrong  information,  but because  he didnt then make that 
payment, I dont think that Mr M actually relied on the wrong information Santander gave. 
I know that Mr M may have been intending to pay £40 when  he rang again in January. But 
the notes from the earlier  call in December do seem  to me to show that Mr M had been told 
then that he was already at risk of default.  
I also note that Santander  sent Mr M a number of letters about that default. Although Mr M 
says he didnt receive them, I think they were  sent to the right address, and I dont think it 
would be Santanders  fault if they didnt arrive. 
Taking account of all of the above, I dont  think that when Mr M rang Santander back  in 
January, that he could  reasonably have  expected  that he would  still be in time to make a 
payment, and stop a default  on his account.  
I know that Mr M was very disappointed to find that his account had been defaulted. He was 
then further disappointed to find that Santander  wasnt going to just let him make  payments 
towards this debt every now and again, as it said it would on the call he made  in January. 
But Mr M hasnt  suggested any way in which he relied on this information, for instance, by 
Ref: DRN30830373prioritising other debts.  So I think that its likely that Mr M was just disappointed to find that 
Santander had employed a collections agent,  that was asking him to make regular 
payments. 
I think that the payment of £100  which Santander has already  made  to Mr M is the right 
amount to make up for the disappointment  that Mr M has obviously felt, when he found out 
that information that Santander gave him was wrong. I dont think  Santander has to do any 
more than that. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont  think his complaint should be upheld.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3083037