K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about a default being registered against him in relation to an agreement he 
had with FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Miotonovo).
background
In February 2015  Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with Motonovo.  The total amount repayable  under the agreement was £17,994.00.
In February 2016  Mr B contacted Motonovo  to advise that the car had been written  off and 
that his motor insurance company would  be making a payment. Motonovo  received £11,720 
from the insurance company and write to Mr B advising him that he was responsible for the 
shortfall amount  of £4555.03.
Motonovo says that Mr B failed to make payment so it issued a notice of default on 11 May 
2016 in which it advised him that it would terminate the agreement on 25 May 2016  if he 
didnt make payment.  It says it received no response from Mr B so it terminated the 
agreement leaving an outstanding balance of £8,619.02.
Motonovo says it wrote  to Mr B on 25 July 2016 asking him to make  payment but received 
no response. It says the debt remained outstanding until it was sold to a  third  party  in 
September 2018. The third party placed  a default on Mr Bs credit  file backdated to 25 July 
2016, this being the date the agreement was placed  into default.
Mr B was unhappy about the default on his credit file and complained  to Motonovo. He said 
he hadnt received  any letters or the notice  of default  from Motonovo. He also said his credit 
file showed the agreement as settled for two years leading up to the default being recorded.
In its final response Motonovo said it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, because  it said it had 
sent him all of the necessary letters advising him of the outstanding amount and warning him 
that a default wouldnt  be recorded if the balance wasnt paid.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. He wants  the default 
removed from his credit file and compensation for the trouble the situation has caused  him.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He thought Motonovo had acted unfairly be sending 
the shortfall letter to an incorrect  address, failing to report the default when it shouldve  done 
and selling the debt without resolving  a dispute over the amount owed. He recommended  
that Motonovo should buy the debt back,  agree a settlement amount with Mr B and remove  
the default once Mr B had paid.
Ref: DRN34665162Motonovo didnt  agree.  It acknowledged  that it hadnt registered the default when it should 
have done but said it wouldve been  clear to Mr B that the debt was owed. It said the issues 
raised by Mr B regarding  the servicing and MOT  policy hadnt been considered as part it its 
investigation because  it hadnt formed part of Mr Bs initial  complaint. In relation to that issue 
t said that any concerns  Mr B had about the loan advance shouldve been  raised before he 
signed the agreement.  Motonovo said it would consider buying back the debt and recording 
the default as settled  if Mr B paid the settlement balance in full. Subsequently, Motonovo 
said it didnt think it was fair that it was being asked  to buy back  the debt and remove the 
default. It said it was prepared to pay Mr B compensation of £150 for the inconvenience 
caused by sending the shortfall letter to an incorrect address.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the whole  file including all of the information provided by the parties prior to 
and following the investigators view. Ill comment on what I think  is most  relevant  to my 
decision. If I dont  mention  a particular point it isnt because I havent thought about it but 
because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order  to reach  the correct outcome.
Ive reviewed all of the correspondence sent by Motonovo before it sold the debt. Its not 
disputed by Motonovo that the shortfall  letter was sent to an incorrect  address.  Whilst I 
accept the point made by Motonovo that the shortfall letter isnt a legal requirement,  its still 
something Id expect to be sent to the correct address. I think  the non receipt  of the shortfall  
letter deprived Mr B of the opportunity  to settle  the account before the notice of default  was 
issued.
Mr B has said that he didnt receive  the notice of default either. Motonovo  is legally obliged 
to send this. Ive can se that the notice  of default was sent to Mr B at the correct  address , so 
I think its more  likely than not that Mr B received  this.
Mr B has said that he disputed the amount  he was being asked to pay. I can see from the 
contact notes that Mr B raised an issue about  the servicing and MOT  policy in May 2015.  
Motonovo told Mr B it would investigate this but I cant see that this was progressed or that 
Mr B received a response.  Im not surprised that Mr B has continued to raise  this issue,  
because he believes it affects  the amount outstanding. I dont think  it was fair for Motonovo  
not to address this issue when it was raised and to continue to leave this dispute  unresolved  
before selling the debt. 
I can see that Mr B contacted Motonovo in September  2016  via its solicitors and offered to 
pay £4000  to settle the debt. I cant see that any steps were taken at this time to try and 
resolve the dispute about the MOT  and service policy and bring the matter  to a close,  which 
Im satisfied would  have been possible based on the amount which Mr B had offered.
I can also see that Motonovo  didnt register the default when it shouldve done.  Motonovo  
has said this was an error. I think the error  has caused the complaint  to become protracted 
and led Mr B to think that his credit file would be unaffected.
Baaed on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Motonovo  sent the shortfall  letter to an 
incorrect address, failed to register the default  and failed to investigate Mr Bs dispute about 
the MOT and service policy. I dont think Motonovo has acted fairly  here.
Ref: DRN34665163That said,  Im also satisfied that Mr B is aware  that a debt is owed. His actions in previously 
offering £4000 to settle are consistent with this. So I dont think its reasonable to ask 
Motonovo to remove the default  until the debt is settled. Mr B is unlikely to settle the debt 
until his dispute  about the MOT and servicing  policy has been  fully investigated so Motonovo  
should look into this. But if, after having done  so, Motonovo determine that the policy  has no 
effect on the outstanding  balance, then Mr B will need to settle  the outstanding balance.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. FirstRand  Bank  Limited should:
Buy back  the debt
Investigate  Mr Bs point about  the MOT and servicing policy  and issue  him with a 
response
Agree a settlement  amount
Once the settlement amount has been  paid I full, remove the default
Pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset  caused by sending the shortfall 
letter to an incorrect address and failing to register the default
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3466516