K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (trading  as Abbey National)  mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs W applied  for a mortgage in 2002  and bought a PPI policy  at around the same 
time. I understand  it gave them an equal  joint benefit for up to 12 months  for each  successful 
accident, sickness or unemployment claim  they made.
Mr and Mrs W say, among other  things, it wasnt made clear to them  they had a choice 
about PPI and its cost and benefits werent  explained.  They say they had workplace benefits 
that meant  they didnt need  the cover at a time when  they were trying  to keep their costs  
down.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs W 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Santander has very little paperwork from the sale but thats not surprising or unreasonable  
given how long ago it took place. I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs W when they 
were sold PPI  which I understand happened  during  a meeting at a branch. But, based  on 
what we know about Santanders sales process  in branch at the time, I think its likely           
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  been given a booklet  about the cover and would then have  signed  a 
separate PPI application form and direct debit  mandate. Ive also seen a copy  of a mortgage 
application submission  form that it seems  their adviser filled in. On  this form, under a 
heading about other products theyve  taken (that is, other products in addition  to their new 
mortgage), a PPI product  has been  circled.
From all of this information I think its likely there  was some discussion at the time with                 
Mr and Mrs W about their insurance needs and they chose the cover they wanted. Its 
possible, as they say, that their adviser  told them their mortgage was conditional  on taking 
PPI. But the evidence I have for this  essentially, what Mr and Mrs W are saying now  isnt 
strong enough for me to think  that would be a fair and reasonable conclusion  to reach. I think  
its more likely it was made clear to Mr and Mrs W they had a choice about whether or not to 
take the PPI, and they agreed  to take it out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check the cover  was right for 
them. But, despite  what Mr and Mrs W say, it doesnt look to me as if it was unsuitable 
based on what they say of their circumstances at the time and the policy  details Ive got. 
They say they were both entitled to six months full pay and then six months half pay if they 
were off work sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their sick pay and for up to 12 
Ref: DRN36886632months for all successful accident and sickness claims. And it wouldve  paid out in the same  
way if either  of them lost their job.
Mr and Mrs W also say they had some  savings, perhaps around £10,000. But I dont think 
these savings made the PPI unsuitable  for them. I say this bearing in mind  their mortgage 
was a significant and long-term  financial commitment secured on their home, which  was at 
risk if they didnt keep  up with their mortgage repayments. And having PPI meant they 
wouldnt have needed to rely on their savings  which they may have needed for other  things 
 if there  were difficulties.  Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful to Mr and Mrs W in 
the event of sickness, accident or unemployment.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the clear information it shouldve  before 
they decided to buy PPI. I dont  know,  for example, if it made the cost and benefits clear. But 
the PPI was apparently affordable for Mr and Mrs W. I also dont know if it pointed  out the 
main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs W dont appear to have been affected by 
any of those things.  This means, overall, I dont think clearer information wouldve changed 
their decision  to buy PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3688663