K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2009 alongside  a loan. Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he wasnt aware he could get the loan without the PPI. Lloyds should 
have given him a choice about  buying the policy so Ive looked at the paperwork from 
the time.  Lloyds has provided a copy of the completed credit agreement from when 
Mr M applied for the policy and his loan. Theres a separate section about the PPI 
and theres a box ticked to say he wanted  it. I think its likely this box was ticked 
following a discussion with the Lloyds representative and reflected the discussion. 
Mr M also says the representative was pushy but what  one person feels as pressure 
another may not - it is entirely subjective. Mr M hasnt given me any detail about why 
he felt pressured  so I cant uphold this complaint about pressure.
And overall,  although  Mr M says he was confused and misled  about what the PPI 
was, I think he likely  understood he was taking out insurance to cover him if he was 
off work through accident, sickness  or if he lost his job. I also think  the PPI would 
have probably  appeared on his loan statements. So if he wanted to question it he 
could have done so with Lloyds at any time. Taking  everything into account, I think  
its likely  Lloyds made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this after 
such a long time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover-  for 
example because he had an unusual employment circumstance or a pre-existing 
medical condition.  And he seems  to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Ref: DRN35813812Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about not knowing 
what PPI was and that his focus was on how much  he was paying each month . But these 
points dont change  my decision.  I think  the monthly cost and the overall cost of the policy 
was set out separately on the agreement, so I think he would have understood how much  he 
had to pay for the insurance. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but overall I dont  think Mr M lost out because of anything 
Lloyds did wrong  and I dont uphold this complaint.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr M any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr M the extra  he paid each  month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3581381