K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to remove  its all monies charge in 2012  
when he repaid his secured overdraft facility.  He says this caused  him huge embarrassment 
with a local estate  agent, and he has literally been  a laughing stock.
background
Mr R had an existing banking relationship  both personally and for his businesses  with 
Lloyds, and in 2010 he applied for a £500,000 secured overdraft facility. He signed a 
Mortgage of freehold  or leasehold property  to secure own liabilities agreement (the 
agreement) dated 24 February 2010 that set out the terms including that Lloyds would place  
an all monies charge on his property.
 
The overdraft was repaid in December  2011  but the charge remained on Mr Rs property.
At the end of January  2019 Mr R contacted  Lloyds as hed put himself forward to be a 
guarantor for a family members rental property agreement, but when the estate agent 
looked into things  they found  Lloyds charge over Mr Rs property.  
Mr R complained to Lloyds which said it hadnt done anything wrong in not removing the 
charge previously. It said - after reviewing Mr Rs holdings - it would now do so and offered 
£300 compensation for some customer  service  failings  when Mr R raised the issue.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had done anything wrong, other than the customer  
service failings Lloyds  had already admitted to, and he felt the offer of £300 was fair for that. 
Mr R didnt agree and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr R wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read and considered 
the whole  file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all the available evidence from the parties. Im satisfied thats 
what the investigator did in Mr Rs case.  Insofar  as our investigator didnt agree with him on 
the outcome of the complaint that isnt, in itself, indicative of bias however unwelcome Mr R 
found his conclusions. 
The agreement that Mr R entered into on 24 February 2010 says:
Secured Amounts means:
(a)all money and liabilities of whatever nature now or at any time in the future due, 
owing or incurred from or by me/us to the Bank,  anywhere and in any way, 
whether alone or jointly with anyone else, including  my/our liability as guarantor, 
and even if the liability may depend  upon events which may or may not happen;
Ref: DRN38703992I/We with full title guarantee  charge the Property by way of legal mortgage to the Bank 
as a continuing security  for the Secured  Amounts subject only to the Prior  Mortgage(s).
This Mortgage  shall continue as security even  if the Secured Amounts reduce to nil or 
fluctuate.
Its clear from the agreement that it doesnt  just relate to the secured overdraft Mr R was 
applying for, albeit it was the creation of that facility  that prompted the parties to enter into it. 
As Mr R had other borrowing facilities at the time then these immediately came under the 
agreement (hence became secured by the charge)  once  Mr R entered into it, even though 
theyd previously been unsecured facilities. So even when Mr R repaid the overdraft that 
prompted it, the agreement would remain in force  all the time Mr R had any borrowing 
facilities with the bank, even if that was just a credit card that was repaid in full each month.
If Mr R was unsure about what an all monies charge  meant in practice then thats something 
he needed to seek independent legal advice  about before signing the agreement.  As it is 
Lloyds simply  kept to the agreement that Mr R entered into so I cant say it did anything  
wrong in not removing the charge sooner.
When Mr R contacted Lloyds about it in January 2019 Lloyds referred  the matter to its 
lending area so a decision  could be made whether or not to release the charge. The decision 
to release the charge  wasnt an automatic yes just because the overdraft had been repaid, 
instead Lloyds  had to look at all the potential borrowing facilities Mr R had with it to decide  if 
it was willing  to release its charge. Having done  so Lloyds agreed to release  the charge and 
notified Mr R and the land registry accordingly. In all that took under three weeks  from when 
Mr R first notified  Lloyds of his problem.  Having considered everything Im satisfied the time 
taken wasnt unreasonable such that would warrant higher compensation than Lloyds  has 
already paid.
This has taken up some  of Mr Rs personal  time,  and he made multiple calls to Lloyds. 
I readily accept that he will have found events  frustrating  and time-consuming  to deal with. 
The investigator concluded that Lloyds  had already offered Mr R reasonable compensation 
for this, and I agree.
Mr R has told us with remarkable frankness about  how his reputation may have been 
damaged. I am not without sympathy for Mr R. He said his is a small  community  in which 
hes quite certain the news  has leaked out, to his detriment.  I appreciate his feelings  in this 
respect, but Lloyds didnt  do anything wrong in leaving the charge on the property. If Mr R is 
concerned that information only the estate  agent should be aware  of has become known in 
his wider community, then thats something for him to raise with the estate agent directly.
Ref: DRN38703993my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I find the compensation  paid by Lloyds  Bank PLC is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I make no other order or award. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3870399