K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI)  handling of his home  insurance  claim 
for subsidence. 
background 
In August  2016,  Mr K noticed cracking  internally and externally at his home, so he called UKI 
to make a claim for subsidence. The claim was accepted. Removal  of some vegetation was 
recommended followed  by a period of monitoring into 2017  to see if the movement had 
stabilised. Mr K phoned UKI on many occasions to report that he thought the house was still 
moving. UKI said it was regularly checking the monitoring it had in place and once the 
results were  known it would be able to proceed  with the claim. Mr K asked  to be kept 
updated. 
In December 2017 UKIs contractors reported that repairs could now be undertaken. The 
works were booked for May 2018.  After they were completed, Mr K reported further cracking. 
And he said hed seen tree roots near his house. UKI said the roots were no longer active  
but Mr K disagreed.  
In July 2018 Mr K complained to UKI about the delays, poor communication and the overall  
service hed received.  He said he wanted a senior complaint handler to acknowledge his 
concerns and deal with them, a prompt and detailed investigation into the main cause of the 
subsidence, a mitigation  plan and a senior claims handler to oversee the claim for the rest of 
its duration. 
UKI acknowledged Mr Ks complaint but said it was unlikely to be able to provide a full 
response to the issues hed raised  within the required  8 weeks  because it was waiting for 
information from its contractors. In the meantime, it appointed an arboriculturalist to provide 
a report after which removal of Mr Ks boundary  hedge  followed. When the 8 weeks  was up, 
UKI wrote to Mr K to say it wasnt in a position to provide  a full response to his complaint, but 
it provided his rights  to refer his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He 
thought that there had been some shortcomings in the customer service  provided by UKI 
and some minor delays.  He recommended that UKI pay Mr K compensation of £300 for the 
trouble and upset  this had caused  him. 
UKI accepted our investigators findings  but Mr K disagreed. He thought the amount of 
compensation recommended didnt fairly reflect the trouble and upset hed been caused. He 
said hed had to devote too much of his own time to chasing UKI and its contractors, that the 
contractors made repeated errors  and that his claim had been un-necessarily delayed as 
whole. He said that itd recently  been recommended that his boundary  hedge  be removed, 
which had now taken  place, but that hed had to incur the cost of replacing it with a fence. 
Our investigator thought about  what Mr K had said but wasnt  persuaded to change his mind.  
He said that the matter  of the new fence  was a new issue that would first need  to be raised  
with UKI. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN33530592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By their very nature,  all home insurance claims come with a certain degree of inconvenience 
attached to them. Thats to be expected. And subsidence claims can attract  more than the 
average level of inconvenience  due to their complexity and length. This service wont  ask an 
insurer to pay compensation where the inconvenience is attributable to the claim itself. 
Thats because such inconvenience is unavoidable.  But where  an insurer  makes  an already 
stressful situation worse   through its action or inaction - then we will look at whether an 
award of compensation is warranted.  
It is worth noting though  that subsidence  claims are rarely resolved speedily.  Inevitably it will 
take an insurer a while to establish  whether movement is actually occurring and what  the 
cause of it may be. If the cause  is found to be nearby vegetation, then this will need to be 
removed. And then months of level monitoring may follow to ensure any movement has 
stabilised before  superstructure repairs can be undertaken. 
I can see that Mr Ks claim followed this pattern. Nearby vegetation  was identified as the 
cause and was removed. Level monitoring followed.  After a few months of this, in March  
2017, Mr K thought  further cracks were appearing. UKIs engineer visited  and reassured him 
 incorrectly as it subsequently turned out  that they were due to thermal  expansion. But to 
make sure, further monitoring was set up which continued for almost  another  year before the 
house was considered stable enough to be repaired in May 2018.  Then,  shortly  after the 
repairs were completed,  Mr K noticed  some  cracking again  which  he reported to UKI. 
It instructed  an arboriculturalist to report, and it was identified  that the further movement that 
had occurred was due to the proximity  of the boundary hedge. Removal  was advised. 
But I can see from the file that Mr K often had to chase UKI and its contractors for updates 
and progress, so communication,  at times, was not of an acceptable standard.  UKI couldve  
done more to re-assure Mr K about what was happening to his house so he understood the 
process fully and his fears  couldve been allayed.  
In relation to the external  repairs, Mr K raised  some concerns about the quality of the works 
and that certain  works in the schedule hadnt  been  completed. Whilst UKI noted 
Mr Ks concerns, I can see that there  were  delays in resolving them.  And by its own 
admission, UKIs contractor didnt respond  to some of Mr Ks emails. And there was a 
misdiagnosis in 2017  that ongoing  movement was thermal expansion when ultimately it 
turned out it was being caused  by the proximity of Mr Ks boundary hedge.  Also, a portaloo  
was left on-site by UKIs contractors for 4 weeks after works  ceased and UKI sent Mr K a 
report relating to another policyholders claim, not his own.
I think all these issues were avoidable and that they made an already stressful situation  
worse for Mr K. So, I think that its fair that UKI compensate Mr K for the trouble  and upset 
the shortcomings in its service  Ive identified above caused him. Taking all the 
circumstances of this complaint into account  and having regard to this services  approach  to 
compensation awards, I think that UKI should  pay Mr K £300 for the additional distress and 
inconvenience its avoidable actions caused  him. 
I know that Mr K thinks that he should receive more  compensation than this but, Im unable 
to agree. I think the award of £300 that Im making  is in line with awards  we have made  in 
Ref: DRN33530593similar cases and is fair in all the circumstances. And I can only look at the parts  of Mr Ks 
complaint that he raised with UKI prior to coming to this service. Any issues since  then  
including his claim for replacing the hedge with a fence  must  first be raised with UKI. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to pay Mr K 
compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset it caused him during the handling  of his 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3353059