K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained as director of J, a limited company, that Covea Insurance  Plc paid too 
much to settle a claim against his business  mini fleet insurance  policy.  
background
Mr S bumped into another drivers vehicle. The other driver took his vehicle  to a 
manufacturer approved garage  for repairs and claimed against Js policy.  The vehicle also 
had a bike rack that was damaged in the accident. Covea checked the repairing garages 
estimate with its engineer  before agreeing  to pay for the repairs. After the repairs  were  
completed the other driver  was unhappy with the work that had been done. So the garage 
carried out some rectification work  to put things right.  Covea said this additional work was at 
the garages own cost.
Mr S thought  the repair bill of over £3,000 had been  inflated and complained to Covea. He 
didnt think Covea should have agreed  to replace the tailgate. Covea said the tailgate  frame 
had buckled and it had a duty of care to replace it. Covea said this was because  if it was 
repaired it could weaken the tailgate. Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to 
us. He also wanted to know what had happened to the damaged bike rack as he thought 
any money the garage had made  from keeping  it should have been  deducted  from the claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He thought Covea had acted fairly and 
reasonably in settling the other  drivers claim and didnt think  it was likely that the costs were 
inflated. He thought the bike rack would have been disposed of as waste. Mr S didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The terms and conditions  of Js policy allow  Covea  to take over and settle a claim as it sees 
fit. This might mean it makes a decision Mr S doesnt agree with, but the terms and 
conditions allow it to do so. My role is to see that its done so fairly and reasonably.  In this 
case I understand Mr S didnt think Covea should have replaced the tailgate. Ive also seen 
an email from the other driver who also suggested  Covea might have paid too much for 
repairs. So Ive considered Coveas reasons for authorising the repairs  and the amount it 
paid. 
Covea asked the garage for an estimate before agreeing to the repairs. This is what Id 
expect it to do. Ive seen  that Coveas engineer considered the report. He said Mr S had hit 
the other vehicle hard enough to twist the bike rack and bend the tailgate. He said both 
needed replacing. The engineer said hed also considered the expert advice from the 
manufacturer approved garage. And he thought  the costs were  reasonable considering  the 
age of the vehicle and specification of the bike rack. 
Ive seen a copy  of the invoice and it doesnt  seem  to be inflated.  And Covea didnt pay for 
any rectification work. I havent seen anything other than Mr S and the other drivers 
comments to suggest  Covea paid more than it should have done  for the repairs. 
Ref: DRN32506062I appreciate Mr S would  like an audit trail for the damaged parts  but I dont think Covea 
needs to provide this. I havent  seen  anything to suggest the garage sold any of the 
damaged parts. And in any event Covea had to indemnify the other  driver for his loss, which 
was the cost of paying the garage to replace the tailgate  and bike rack. 
Its not in Coveas interest to pay inflated costs  and in this case  Im satisfied its unlikely it did 
so. I think Covea acted  fairly and reasonably  in settling  the other drivers claim so Im not 
going to ask it to do anything  differently. 
While discussing  his complaint with our investigator  Mr S mentioned his premium  had 
increased as result  of his claim. However  he didnt want to continue with a complaint about 
that at that time. If Mr S remains  unhappy about  that it would need to be dealt with as a 
separate complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3250606