K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Aviva  Insurance Limited didnt reduce their multi-car 
motor insurance premium when they changed  a car on their policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R changed one of the cars on their multi-car policy.  The new car was a relatively 
high performance  car. Aviva charged them an additional premium of roughly  £553 to cover 
the new car. Mr and Mrs R later changed  that car for a less powerful car in a lower insurance 
group. But Aviva said that this didnt reduce their premium.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think that was fair and brought their complaint  to us. Our adjudicator 
didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree so their complaints 
been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
When Mr and Mrs R changed to a higher  performance and higher value car Aviva charged 
them an extra  premium. So its understandable that they expected  a similar reduction in 
premium when they replaced that car with a lower  performance and less valuable car. And I 
can see why they were surprised that Aviva didnt offer a refund.
Its important that I make  clear that were not the industry regulator.  So its not my role to say 
how much  an insurer  should charge, what  factors  it should assess,  or how much risk to 
attach to each  of those  factors when deciding  on a premium. Insurance  is essentially an 
assessment of risk. And we generally  take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly, 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  When  deciding  how much to charge 
for their policies insurers will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders  
will make a claim and how much  they might have  to pay out for those. And each insurer will 
go about that in its own way. So, when  deciding if an insurer  has dealt with a consumer 
fairly, I look to see if its treated them the same  as it would  other consumers with similar 
circumstances.
Ive looked carefully  at how Aviva calculated Mr and Mrs Rs premiums. Those calculations  
are commercially  sensitive so I cant share those with them. I can understand Mr and Mrs R 
might find that frustrating. And it would certainly be easier for me to explain how Ive come to 
my conclusions if I could show them the risk ratings  (what they base the premium on) 
Avivas applied. But it may help if I explain that insurers  wont usually explain exactly  how 
theyve worked out a premium to their customers.  Thats because, if they did, that 
information could  give a commercial advantage to their competitors. So we dont include 
such information in our decisions, which are published.   
Its up to Aviva to decide for itself the risk a specific car will present. Insurers  dont generally 
assess a cars risk based on widely published insurance groupings. In my experience 
insurers will generally gather their own data and make  their own calculations  about the levels  
Ref: DRN33621282of risk they believe various  models  of cars present. And as each insurer will do that in its 
own way. So we wont generally interfere with that assessment. And its not a simple  matter 
of saying, for example, that a less powerful car presents less of a risk than a more  powerful 
model. And insurers will look at other  factors including  the likelihood  of cars being stolen or 
involved in accidents  and the amounts theyve had to pay out for those. So its simply not the 
case that moving to a less powerful or less expensive car will automatically result  in a 
cheaper premium, as many consumers  might think. 
As Ive said above,  its not for me to tell Aviva how it should assess  risks. But Ive looked  at 
its calculations carefully and I think its treated Mr and Mrs R in the same way that it would 
other customers in similar  circumstances. So I think its treated them reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3362128