K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with a car he got financed in part by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading  as Skoda Finance (VWFS).
background
Mr H acquired  a new car in April 2017  at a dealer. The car cost £28,570.  Part of the 
purchase price was financed with a hire purchase  agreement through  VWFS.
A few weeks  after getting the car Mr H says he began to have problems with it. He says, with 
the stop/start function disabled, when  slowing down the cars engine would cut out. He said 
the engine stop/start button  then wouldnt work  and he had to start the engine manually with 
the key.
Mr H took the car back to the dealer several  times  over the next few months but it said it 
couldnt find a fault. In March 2018 Mr H complained to VWFS.  In May 2018 it wrote  to him 
and explained  it wasnt upholding his complaint as the dealer said there was no evidence of 
a fault with the car. Mr H remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.
While the complaint was waiting  for an investigator to give their opinion,  Mr H drove the car 
to VWFS office and left it there. Later, VWFS arranged for an independent inspection  of the 
car. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the independent inspection  didnt  find 
a fault with the car. So, she believed it was of satisfactory quality when Mr H got it. Mr H 
remained unhappy with this. 
The car was moved  from VWFS office  and Mr H arranged for his own inspection  to be 
completed. He sent this to the investigator  to consider as well as some testimony from a 
neighbour. In summary, this said they were in the car when the engine  started  dying when 
slowing down and seemed to be coming  to a halt. They  said they were concerned about the 
safety of the car.
Our investigator told Mr H neither the second  inspection nor the testimony changed her 
mind. She pointed out the second inspection didnt find evidence of a fault. And she said the 
testimony wasnt enough evidence to make  her think there was a fault. Mr H remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
This case involves a regulated hire purchase agreement  from VWFS. In this type of 
arrangement, the supplier  of the car is VWFS. Our service is able to consider complaints 
about this type of agreement.
Ref: DRN38374362When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This says that when Mr H got 
the car, the supplier had a responsibility to make  sure it was of satisfactory  quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect  taking into account  things  
like the cars  age, price, description and other relevant factors. Ill bear in mind that in this 
case Mr Hs car was brand new  so I think a reasonable person would expect it to be in 
mint condition and free from even minor defects.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Hs testimony about  the fault and what  he says happened.  Ive 
also read the statement hes sent in from his neighbour that describes the issue when he 
was in the car. And, I appreciate Mr H says this is an intermittent issue  that doesnt occur  all 
the time.
But, I have to bear in mind that the car has been  looked at by two professional independent  
inspectors from different  companies. The first inspector said:
During road test engine performance was satisfactory and once at normal operating 
temperature under normal driving conditions  the stop / start system activated as expected  - 
every time the vehicle  was brought to rest. The engineer did not experience and was unable 
to reproduce the customers concern with stop / start functionality. During road test the 
vehicles general  performance including the stop/start system  was considered satisfactory  
and commensurate with the make / model  of vehicle.
The second  inspector said:
We confirm that on road test we found the vehicle to perform satisfactory with no apparent 
faults numerous attempts were made to reproduce  the fault described by the client  however 
no fault was found.
The second  inspector did point out:
I would however  confirm  that my inspection was restricted to the road test carried out, as 
the issue with this vehicle occurs  very infrequently (approximately once every 1000  miles) it 
would be highly unlikely  that the fault would occur  during a single road test. In order  to 
confirm the existence of this fault it may be necessary for the vehicle  to be placed  into 
regular service with an independent driver who can use the vehicle over 1-2000  miles 
allowing time for the fault to occur.
But, I have to also consider that the inspector explained that both he and Mr H drove the car 
- with the stop/start function disabled - and tried to replicate the issue.  He lists five different 
manoeuvres that he and Mr H carried out to try to do this.
Ive also thought about the fact that Mr H took the car to the dealer several times. The job 
sheets arent  available for these visits, which is unfortunate.  But VWFS and Mr H both say 
the dealer couldnt find a fault either.  So, on balance, I think  its most  likely the dealer  also 
didnt find a fault with the car.
Ive also considered that Mr H believes VWFS  might have cleared any fault codes from the 
car when  it was left at their office. Ive thought carefully about this. But, I havent seen any 
evidence to support  this.
Ref: DRN38374363I know how strongly Mr H feels about this. And, I want  to reassure him that Ive very carefully 
considered everything  hes told us and thought  about all the points hes made. But, thinking 
about everything, I havent seen enough  to make me think its most likely there was a fault 
with the car. So, it follows that Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied to Mr H and VWFS dont need to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3837436