K822xcomplaint
Mrs V complains that RAC Financial Services Ltd (RAC)  didnt  send her renewal documents  
for the breakdown policy she had for herself  and her family, so she didnt realise  the policy  
had renewed. 
background 
Mrs V has a breakdown policy that covers her and her family  that is provided  by RAC.
Under the cancellation section of the policy  terms and conditions it says:
You can cancel your policy within the cooling off period, which  is either 14 days  from 
the start date or the date you receive your policy documents, whichever is later.
If you do this, we will cancel the policy with immediate effect from the day you 
request it and we will refund your premium in full, unless  you have made a claim.
If you cancel after the cooling  off period, we will refund  your premium, less an 
amount to reflect the time you have already been  covered. However:
a. 
b. We will not refund any arrangement and administration fee you have paid.  The 
amount of the arrangement and administration fee will be shown on your policy  
schedule.
Mrs V took out the policy online in December 2016. Mrs V was sent a welcome pack  and it 
confirms that she opted  to receive her membership  documents  by email, and that it will post 
the membership cards  and key fobs to her.
RAC sent Mrs V renewal documents by email in 2017 and the policy automatically renewed 
in December of that year with payment being  taken from the card details RAC held on file.
The policy automatically  renewed again on 12 December 2018 at a cost of £285.99, which 
was debited from the card RAC held on file. Mrs V says she wasnt aware this had happened 
as she didnt receive any renewal documentation for this year.  She says she was only aware  
the policy had renewed when she noticed the payment had been taken from her account. 
Mrs V contacted RAC  on 9 January 2019 to complain that she hadnt  known  about  the 
renewal and asked  it to cancel the policy and give her a full refund. 
RAC said it had sent the renewal documents to the email address it held for Mrs V and as 
she was cancelling  the policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period it couldnt  provide a full 
refund, it gave her a partial refund of £22.99. Mrs V was unhappy  with this and so brought 
her complaint to this service.
In order to resolve matters RAC asked our investigator to put an offer to Mrs V. It said it 
hadnt calculated  the refund correctly it recalculated it and offered a pro-rata  refund  of 
£143.28. This was calculated  in the following way:
Cost of policy £285.99, minus 29 days on cover  at a cost of £22.72  which leaves £263.27 it 
then deducted  the £22.99 refund it had already paid to Mrs V and the £97.00  arrangement 
and administration  fee. 
Ref: DRN39254172The investigator thought that this was a fair offer, but Mrs V didnt want  to accept the offer.  
She felt that as she hadnt received the documents  RAC should  honour the full refund, and 
so the matter has been passed to me to settle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so I have to inform Mrs V that I think the offer RAC  has put forward to resolve  
that matter for her is a fair one and Ill explain why.
RAC has provided screenshots of its system  to show that the renewal documents  were 
generated and emailed  on 22 November 2018. It has also shown that the email  address it 
has on file for Mrs V is the correct one. I understand that Mrs V maintains she didnt receive 
the documents, but Im satisfied that the evidence provided shows  the documents were  sent 
and so RAC has done what  it should have here.
Mrs V didnt contact RAC until the 9 January 2019  to cancel the policy  and this did fall 
outside of the 14 day cooling off period. So RAC is entitled to charge for the 29 days that 
Mrs Vs cover  was in place and offer a pro-rata  refund.  It is also entitled to deduct  the 
administration and arrangement fee as per the terms and conditions of the policy. It follows I 
wont be asking RAC to do anything more than it already has in order  to resolve  this matter 
for Mrs V.
my final decision
RAC has already  made an offer to pay Mrs V a pro-rata refund of £143.28 and I think  this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is RAC  Financial Services Ltd should cancel the policy  with effect  from 9 
January 2019  and pay Mrs V a pro-rata  refund of £143.28.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3925417