K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited gave her and her late husband 
inappropriate advice  to take out a lifetime mortgage.  And she is also unhappy that Aviva 
charged an early redemption charge (ERC) when she sold the property.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a lifetime mortgage  with Aviva in 2000.  They  took on additional  
borrowing in 2005.  And they transferred their loan to a different product in 2010.
Mrs M contacted Aviva  in 2017 to let it know  that her husband had died, and to ask about  
her options.  And her representative  subsequently  complained to Aviva on her behalf. He 
said that the mortgage hadnt been suitable, and that Mr and Mrs M hadnt needed the 
money for the reasons  stated by Aviva. And he also said that Aviva  didnt give any advice 
about alternative deals during the lifetime of the mortgage.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that it hadnt advised Mr and Mrs M on the original 
loan in 2000 or the subsequent loan in 2010. So it was unable to comment on whether the 
advice given was appropriate.
It did look at whether the additional borrowing was an appropriate recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances in 2005.  And it said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs M met with Avivas adviser  in March 2005 after contacting Aviva to 
enquire about additional borrowing;
They told the adviser that they had used all the funds  that had been released  in 2000 
and, although  they lived within their means  they had little spare cash left each month;
Alternative ways  of raising  the funds were  discussed with them, but they told the 
adviser that their savings  were  insufficient  and they did not wish to move and trade 
down;
The adviser had produced a suitability report and personalised illustration 
accompanied with product literature. The report summarised their circumstances, 
why the equity release was appropriate  and included  important  information  that they 
needed to know.  The illustration described  the plan and the risks associated  with it;
Mr and Mrs M decided  to proceed with the additional borrowing and completed an 
application form which they signed  in March 2005;
Aviva  felt that the recommendation was suitable for their circumstances at the time. 
And it was satisfied that the documentation given to them explained  the terms and 
conditions and the risks involved with the plan.
Mrs Ms representative wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and so brought  the complaint 
to this service. And he said that, due to Mrs Ms health it had become necessary  for her to 
move. But Aviva wouldnt allow her to transfer  the mortgage to a new property and had 
charged her an ERC.
Our investigator didnt  think that Aviva had done anything wrong. He said,  in summary:
Aviva  didnt sell the original lifetime mortgage  to Mr and Mrs M in 2000,  or the new 
mortgage in 2010.  So he couldnt consider  this part of the complaint further;
Based  on the point  of sale documentation  he was persuaded that Aviva made sure 
that the advance in 2005 was suitable for Mr and Mrs M in line with the relevant 
Ref: DRN35171042rules. And he felt that the fact they had already taken out a lifetime  mortgage and 
went on to take a further advance supported the view that they had an understanding 
of how the product worked. 
The loan agreement  from 2010 set out how Aviva would calculate an ERC. And he 
felt that Aviva had provided the information  he would expect on this issue. Mrs M had 
asked to move part of her lifetime  mortgage  to a new flat but Aviva had declined. He 
had asked Aviva for its reasons,  and was satisfied  that Aviva  had considered the 
application fairly. It was entitled  to make a commercial decision. And he didnt think it 
had acted unreasonably in declining  to allow her to port her lifetime  mortgage and 
apply the ERC;
Mrs M had questioned why Aviva  didnt make her aware  of better products,  when  
interest rates came down. But lifetime mortgages werent designed to be repaid early 
so he wouldnt expect  Aviva to do this.
Mrs Ms representative doesnt agree with our investigators view and so the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator. I realise  that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M 
and her representative so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs Ms representative has raised  a number  of issues.  Ive considered everything that he 
has to say but have  concentrated my decision on this issues  which I find to be central to 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Im satisfied that the original lifetime mortgage  in 2000 and the new lifetime  mortgage in 
2010 were both taken  out following advice from third party independent financial advisers.  
So I agree that Aviva  didnt do anything wrong in relation to the sale of those mortgages.
In relation to the further advance in 2005,  Ive looked at the relevant paperwork. I can see 
that Mr and Mrs M had a meeting with Avivas  adviser in March 2005. And I can see that the 
adviser discussed with Mr and Mrs M why they wanted the advance, and the alternatives to 
taking out the advance.
I appreciate that Mrs Ms representative says that the money wasnt used  for the purposes  
set out in the application. But I agree with our investigator that Aviva  wasnt  obliged  to check 
that Mr and Mrs M used the money for the stated purposes. 
Ive also looked  at suitability letter and illustration  prepared for Mr and Mrs M. And Im 
satisfied that the key terms  of the mortgage were explained to them.  
Having reviewed all the documentation, Im satisfied  that Aviva  took the necessary steps to 
make sure that the additional advance was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.
Mrs M and her representative are also unhappy that Aviva charged an ERC when she sold 
her property.
Ive looked at the offer letter for the lifetime mortgage taken out in 2010.  Section 13 of the 
letter says:
Ref: DRN35171043You can repay this lifetime mortgage  at any time but if you do so, you may have  to pay an 
early repayment charge.  We calculate this charge based on the movement in gilt redemption 
yields between the date the lifetime  mortgage completed and the date of early repayment.  A 
gift is a Government security and a number of different gilts are available. The specific gilt 
associated with your lifetime mortgage  is chosen to reflect its expected term. You will incur 
an early repayment charge if the gilt yield is lower  on the date of early repayment than on the 
date the lifetime mortgage completed. This is explained more fully in your terms and 
conditions booklet.
The maximum charge you could pay is £62,350.00 plus the administration fee which is 
currently £300. The lower  gilt yields fall the higher  your repayment costs  will be
Im satisfied from this that Aviva explained to Mr and Mrs M about the potential  early 
repayment charges.  And, although I appreciate that Mrs Ms representative  doesnt  agree, 
Im satisfied that this is a fair way for Aviva  to calculate the ERC.
The offer letter goes on to state:
You are able to move  home and take your lifetime mortgage with you, subject to your new 
property meeting our lending conditions at the time.
Mrs M asked  Aviva  to port her lifetime  mortgage  to a new assisted living  flat, but Aviva  
declined. It has explained that transferring a lifetime  mortgage to an assisted living property 
is something it only considers on a case by case basis  and after assessing factors including 
the quality and future saleability of the property.  Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that 
Aviva acted unfairly when  it considered Mrs Ms request to port her mortgage. So Im not 
persuaded that Aviva did anything wrong  by declining to accept the new property as security.
Mrs Ms representative has also said that Aviva failed to make Mr and Mrs M aware of better 
products during the lifetime  of the mortgage.  But Im not persuaded that there was any 
requirement on Aviva to do so. So I dont  find that it made an error.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517104