K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is applying  charges to her account  unfairly.
She says thats  especially  so when a text alert service  about her account often doesnt give
her enough  time to pay money into her account and avoid additional charges.
background
I issued my provisional thoughts on this complaint in October. A copy  is attached  and forms 
part of this complaint.  In this I said (in summary) that I thought  HSBC  had applied  the terms 
and conditions relating to charges on Ms Ls account fairly. I also said that as Ms L has now 
made it clear  shes struggling financially Id expect HSBC to respond supportively to that.
HSBC hasnt added anything. Ms L doesnt think  Ive taken enough  notice of her difficulties, 
and that Id decided the outcome  of the complaint before  I issued my provisional decision.
Ms L also says that shed  expect me to want to see that her financial difficulties are reviewed 
and addressed by the bank, not simply suggest  the review  takes  place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Ms L thinks Id made up my mind  about  her complaint before I wrote my provisional 
decision. I can assure her thats  not the case, and I have  taken  into account all the points 
shed raised before that provisional  decision was issued. And Ive thought about what shes 
said in response  to my provisional findings.
I dont doubt the strength of Ms Ls feelings about her circumstances, but I dont think  
HSBCs actions have made her financial position  significantly worse.  As I said, I could only 
find £10 of fees on Ms Ls account  that hadnt  been  returned. Whether or not HSBC 
increased her overdraft limit or agreed  to provide a credit card shed still, in all likelihood,  
have been paying interest  so I took only the fees into account. I still think that was a fair 
thing to do.
Ms L says Ive allowed HSBC to avoid its responsibilities towards customers who are 
struggling because  she didnt tell it she was having  financial difficulties. She says Ive 
concluded that as she didnt use that particular phrase when  talking to the bank then she 
cant have been  struggling. I didnt say that, and Im sorry  if what I wrote wasnt  clear 
enough. What  I said was that the way Ms L conducted her account didnt flag her problems 
to HSBC. That shows how responsible Ms L is when it comes to her banking arrangements,  
but it does mean its less likely HSBC  would know she was struggling financially unless she 
told it that. 
Ms L says I ought to want to see the outcome of any review  HSBC carried out. I wouldnt 
expect to do that. This service can only look at things that have  already  happened  and that 
Ms L has complained  about without a satisfactory  solution.
If Ms L is unhappy with the outcome of the review she can make a new complaint to HSBC.  
But I cant tell HSBC  what to do during  the review process: I can only say it should  be 
Ref: DRN39928742supportive once its established Ms Ls circumstances, as thats what its required to do 
under various banking  codes.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39928743complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is applying  charges to her account  unfairly.
She says thats  especially  so when a text alert service  about her account often doesnt give
her enough  time to pay money into her account and avoid additional charges.
background
An ombudsman with this service sent both Ms L and HSBC his assessment  of how this
complaint should  be fairly resolved. Hes no longer with the service, so, in order to ensure a
fair outcome, Ive been  asked to look at the complaint and decide how it should be resolved.
Ms L has had an account with HSBC for many  years. She has an arranged overdraft of
£300. If she uses that overdraft she pays interest  on the amount she goes overdrawn.  If she
doesnt use it theres no charge.
If Ms Ls overdraft goes over £310  shes charged  £5 a day until the overdraft is back  within
her agreed limit. HSBC  says it allows a £10 buffer free of charge as it understands
customers sometimes need  a little flexibility. It also limits the daily charges it will raise each
month, and says it doesnt apply a charge if the account is only over the limit because of
previous charges.
Ms L was charged £15 (three lots of £5) for going  over the £310 limit in 2017  and when
Ms L talked  to HSBC  about this it said that, although  the fees had been applied correctly,  it
would refund them as a gesture of goodwill.  It warned Ms L there was no guarantee it would
refund fees in the future.
In August  2018  Ms L was again charged   this time £10 (two lots of £5). The bank  said it
wouldnt refund  the fees. Ms L complained that this isnt fair, especially when text alerts
about her balance dont give her enough  time to pay money  into her account to prevent
further charges.
HSBC didnt change  its decision, so Ms L brought her complaint to us. She says some
months the fees the bank  charges make  her financial situation worse, and that HSBCs
charging policies  affects  people  on low incomes   as she is  disproportionately.  She says
she has previously asked  HSBC to increase her overdraft limit to avoid the fees but that
request was declined.  She says shes suffering financial  hardship and HSBC should be
helping her, not making things worse.
Our investigator thought HSBC had applied  the charges fairly. She also thought the text alert
system worked as it should. HSBC had explained  that it didnt control when payments were
presented for processing, and so it could only send automated texts when the limit had been
reached or breached. However,  our investigator  did think HSBC  should have noted Ms Ls
account was showing signs that she might be in financial difficulty.  That was mostly  because
Ms L told us shed complained about not being given a credit card when she asked for one
or an increase on her overdraft limit. She thought HSBC should pay £100 compensation for
this, and noted that it had offered to review Ms Ls finances  and her account  now it knew
she might  have problems.
Ms L was content with this, but HSBC  objected to paying £100 compensation, as it didnt
think it had done  anything wrong. It said it couldnt  be expected to know  that these particular
complaints suggested  Ms L was struggling  financially,  if she didnt tell them this.
Ref: DRN39928744My ombudsman colleague agreed  with HSBC. He thought the charges had been applied in
line with the terms  and conditions, and that there werent clear signs  of financial difficulty  that
HSBC should  have acted upon.  So he didnt think HSBC  needed  to do anything.
Ms L is unhappy with this. She says, in summary,  my colleague didnt consider all the
evidence and skimmed over the main issues. She thinks his proposal that HSBC need  do
nothing  not even review  her account   is unfair.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to address each of Ms Ls main concerns separately. Im not going  to comment  on
every point Ms L has made, unless they affect my decision. I can assure  Ms L Ive read
everything she and HSBC have sent or told us.
account charges
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Ms Ls account and Im satisfied the charges were
applied in line with these.
I accept that Ms L thinks shes paying more now than she used to for her account. But that
doesnt mean the charges  are incorrect, or unfair. From the information Ive seen, Ms L was
charged the £5 daily fee twice in 2018, although  she has paid interest each month as shes
used the arranged overdraft facility regularly.
Im also satisfied that HSBC had explained how the charges  worked and warned Ms L it
wouldnt refund  legitimate  future charges some time before they were  applied.
text alerts
Ms L has signed up for text alerts that warn her if shes going  over her arranged  overdraft.
She says the alerts  are often sent too late for her to make  a payment into her account the
same day. HSBC has explained that the alerts are automatic and generated as payments
are made from Ms Ls account. It says it has no control over when payments are presented,
so it cant provide additional notice.  That seems reasonable to me.
I appreciate Ms L thinks giving her 24 hours to make a payment into her account before
charging the daily fee would be better, but HSBC  doesnt provide her account  on that basis.
And there are a number of ways  Ms L can pay into the account that would mean she could
avoid charges. I accept  they arent  all convenient for Ms L, but I dont think its HSBCs
responsibility if she chooses not to use secure  payment  methods that could help her avoid
charges.
Fundamentally, it is for Ms L to keep track of her account  and payments shes made, if she
wants to avoid extra charges.
financial difficulties
Our investigator thought there were signs available to HSBC  that Ms L was struggling
financially. Primarily she thought that, as Ms L had complained about not getting a credit
Ref: DRN39928745card, an increased  overdraft limit and the charges, this should have acted as a warning to
HSBC that all might not be well.
I dont currently agree with that. There are different reasons why a customer  might ask for
increased credit facilities  and several reasons why such applications might be declined.
Not all of them are because a customer is in financial difficulties. I can see HSBC  sent Ms L
an explanation  of why it didnt approve  her request for a credit  card account, and what  it
checked before reaching that decision.  I can also see that it recorded an enquiry about an
overdraft in 2016  but no record that Ms L then made an application.  Id expect Ms L to
follow this up if she thought shed made such a request and not had an answer, but I cant
see that she did that.
Ive also looked  at Ms Ls account statements. They do show that she uses her overdraft a
lot  and that usage has increased over the years. But for the majority  of the time the
account has operated  within the agreed limits.  As I said before Ive only seen two occasions
where the agreed limit was breached, and the account was brought back  into order  straight
away. That doesnt suggest financial hardship.
HSBC says Ms L hasnt  said she was suffering  financial  difficulties in the past  and on the
contact notes Ive seen, which include several  written complaints from Ms L, theres no
mention of this. That includes  complaints about  charges.
Overall, I dont  currently think Id expect HSBC to have done anything  before now. However,
now it knows Ms L has financial difficulties,  HSBC is expected to respond supportively. Its
offered to carry out a review with Ms L, including checking for a more suitable account  if one
exists. That seems a reasonable response to me. I must say though, that this does  not mean
HSBC should  offer Ms L additional credit unless it thinks thats appropriate.
my provisional decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3992874