K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc duplicated two cheques in his account 
to the value of £304.
background 
Mr G was checking his accounts online when he noticed duplicated  entries of two cheques 
hed written,  each  for £152. He contacted  the bank and the duplicated entries were removed. 
He said he then noticed a credit of £50 in his account.  He telephoned the bank again and it 
told him this was a compensation payment. He said this wasnt acceptable.  He wanted an 
explanation and compensation to the value of the two cheques. 
NatWest said it didnt  duplicate any payments.  And it credited  his account with £15 not £50. 
This was as an apology  for customer service issues he said hed experienced.
Mr G sent us a copy of a letter dated 13 December 2018 from NatWest which referred  to the 
two cheques as being Returned  Items.  The adjudicator sent NatWest a copy  of this letter  
and said it appeared that NatWest had attempted to debit these cheques twice.  NatWest 
responded by offering Mr G £75 compensation for its mistake. The adjudicator thought  this 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But the bank couldnt explain how the 
mistake had happened. And it couldnt  provide  the recording of the phone call Mr G had 
originally made about the duplicated  payments. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this. He wants a full explanation of why this error happened. During  
the original phone call he says the bank  representative admitted  the entries had been 
duplicated. So he believes that a decision must have been taken by the bank to remove the 
duplicated payments.  And he thinks its suspicious that the phone  call recording has now 
gone missing.
Mr G has also raised  a new separate complaint  against the bank. He wanted this to be 
added to this complaint.  But as the adjudicator explained to him the bank  needs  an 
opportunity to respond to this new complaint first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is contradictory or 
insufficient evidence  as there  is here,  I make my decision based on what I think is 
reasonably likely to have happened.
From the information Mr G has given us including a copy of the letter  from NatWest  about 
these two cheques  being Returned Items it seems reasonably likely there were duplicated 
entries on Mr Gs account. And so I can understand why he was concerned  about  it. 
The bank has removed  those duplicated  entries and there hasnt been any financial  loss. But 
Mr G is annoyed that the duplicated entries  were  removed  from his statement because he 
wanted evidence  of NatWests mistake. And he wants  a full explanation.  
Ref: DRN33945252The bank says it cant explain  how this mistake happened. And it cant  explain why the 
entries were  removed. So its come to the conclusion that it was a system error. I know Mr G 
wont agree  with me but from the information its provided I dont think the bank is trying to 
be unhelpful. It seems to me that it cant find any further information to give Mr G a more  
detailed explanation of what has happened.
Mr G wants NatWest to provide a copy of the phone call he made when he first noticed the 
duplicated entries. He says this will support his complaint. The bank says it cant find a 
recording of that call. But even if I had a copy of that recording I cant  see it would make a 
difference to my decision.  I accept his account  that these items were  duplicated.  I accept 
that they no longer appear  on his statements. From the information Mr G has given us about  
the content of that call I cant  see it will help the bank  give a more  detailed explanation about  
what has happened. Mr G hasnt suffered any financial loss. The bank  has agreed to pay 
him £75 for the inconvenience  this has caused  him. I think thats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances so Im not going to ask the bank  to do anything more.   
 
my final decision
My decision  is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr G £75 compensation for the 
inconvenience its caused him.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3394525