K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P say they were mis-sold a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
Santander UK Plcs taken responsibility  for the sale so Ill simply refer to Santander in this 
decision.
Background
In 1988, Santander sold Mr and Mrs P a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their 
mortgage repayments if either of them became unable  to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. The monthly benefit  amount was split equally between  them.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from 1988,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So Ive reached  my decision on the balance of the remaining 
evidence, together  with experience of how these types of policy  were  sold.  
Ive carefully considered  Mr and Mrs Ps arguments  about not being  told the PPI was 
optional. And, while  theres nothing to conclusively show  Mr and Mrs P agreed to the PPI 
from the paperwork Ive seen, I dont think its likely that Santander would have added this 
cover without making them aware it was optional or getting their agreement to take it.
Santanders assessed the complaint on the basis that it recommended  the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs P. If it did make a recommendation, that meant  Santander needed to take steps to 
ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless  of what  steps  it took, I think the PPI it 
recommended was right for them in any case.  
Before I explain why, Id confirm that Santander  hasnt been  able to provide a copy  of the 
policy terms and conditions from 1988. That said, Ive considered the suitability of the PPI for 
Mr and Mrs P in light of Santanders  policy terms and conditions dated after the sale and 
from experience of the scope of policies such as these  from the time.  
For example, from what Mr and Mrs P have told us about their circumstances, it seems 
theyd have been eligible for the cover and wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy likely  excluded or limited cover  for. I cant see that Mr and Mrs P would 
have found the monthly  premium unaffordable either.
Ref: DRN31528762I cant see that two policies were set up from the start as Mr and Mrs P claim but I note 
Santanders already refunded certain premiums theyd incorrectly been charged. And while 
the PPI only covered Mr and Mrs P for 50% of the total monthly  benefit  if one of them  
needed to claim, I dont  believe  that was inappropriate  in the circumstances. The policy  was 
designed to protect  half of their monthly mortgage repayment if one of them  wasnt  working,  
leaving the other insured person to continue to contribute  to the mortgage  as normal  on the 
basis that they remained in work. It would have covered  them both if they were off at the 
same time. 
It seems  as though Mr and Mrs P were entitled to relatively generous sick pay from their 
employer. But the PPI benefits were  likely  considerable  and potentially  paid out for up to 12 
months for each successful disability and unemployment claim. If they had savings, the PPI 
meant they could have  retained them or used them to cover their other  living costs if either of 
them wasnt  working.
Ive also thought about the endowment policy Mr and Mrs P held which, they argue, meant 
they didnt also need PPI. I dont think this meant the PPI was unsuitable  for them  as it paid 
a regular benefit for disability or unemployment,  whereas the endowment would have paid a 
lump sum benefit on the insureds death. So the policies covered different things.
Taking into account that Mr and Mrs P had entered into a long-term  financial commitment  
that was secured against their home, I think theyd have valued the additional protection  the 
PPI provided. 
Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs P enough information about  the PPI to allow 
them to decide  for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information 
it gave them could have  been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think 
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed 
their decision  to take it. I think they would still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an 
affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mrs P have lost out because of how 
Santander sold them the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3152876