K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Northern Bank Limited  (trading  as Danske Bank)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting in 2009 when Miss M applied  for 
a loan. The policy gave  her accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Northern Bank disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Miss M so it had to check it was suitable for her. As 
well as giving her enough clear information so she could make an informed decision whether 
or not to buy it. I dont  think its shown it did this.
I say this because  Miss M had a pre-existing medical condition which would not have been
covered by the policy. So it was likely  that Miss M would not have been able to claim on the
policy when she needed to, and when she expected to be able to. And I cant see Northern 
Bank made this exclusion clear to Miss M when it made its recommendation.
The bank asked  for confirmation that Miss M had the condition at the date of sale,  saying 
she hadnt referenced  it in the complaint questionnaire she completed for the bank, although 
acknowledging she had on the one she sent this service. Our adjudicator said that Miss M 
had explained  that this discrepancy was perhaps  because whilst she had the condition  in 
1998, she wasnt at the time of the sale suffering  from any related symptoms. 
I have subsequently seen a copy of Miss Ms medical records, confirming the diagnosis date. 
And Im satisfied her condition meets this policys definition of a pre-existing medical 
condition - any condition,  injury, illness, disease,  sickness or related condition, whether  
diagnosed or not, which you knew about, or should  reasonably have known about at the 
Start Date. As this policy excluded such conditions from its cover, its likely Miss M would 
not have been able to claim as she expected to be able to. So I think  its most likely she 
wouldnt have taken  out the PPI if shed been better advised and informed on the exclusion.
It follows I think Miss M has lost out because of the problems  with this sale.
putting things right
Northern Bank should put Miss M in the position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
It should:
Ref: DRN36179322Pay Miss M the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Northern Bank to take off tax from this interest. Northern  
Bank must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Northern Bank Limited  must pay Miss M 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3617932