K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays mis-sold him a credit card payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr T took out the PPI during the same  meeting in branch in which he applied  for the credit  
card in 2000. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr T says he was given the impression  that he had to agree to the PPI in order for the credit 
card to be agreed. He says he believed the PPI was sold as one with the credit card 
account. Looking  at the application form that Mr T signed, there is a separate  section for PPI 
that included a box that needed to be ticked to request  the policy  and the box has been 
ticked in this case.
From what  we know of Barclays branch sales at the time, the PPI was presented as an 
optional extra. The layout and wording  of the application form reinforces that. Because Mr T 
was required to elect PPI on the form, I consider that he would have known (or ought 
reasonably to have  known) that he had a choice about buying the policy.
Mr T has said he wasnt told that he didnt have to purchase the product from Barclays and 
that he could have shopped around. Actually I think that Mr T would have  struggled  to find 
stand alone insurance on the open market that protected  credit  card repayments. But his 
comment certainly suggests that he an interest in this type of insurance.
I have no doubt  that Mr T has provided  his honest recollection of events. However  the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ts memory of events has 
faded somewhat.  Ive thought very carefully about  what Mr T has said but overall I consider it 
is more likely than not that he was given  a choice about having the policy.  It seems to me 
that he probably decided to take it out, knowing  that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Mr T to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know if Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr T cant remember what sick pay, if any, he would have received from his job. Regardless 
of this, the policy would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay and for longer than Mr T 
Ref: DRN35468042would have received full pay for. And Mr T didnt have any savings that he could fall back  on. 
So I consider that he had a need  for the policy and could  have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide  as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected  by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr T had an interest  in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So he was no 
worse off as a result of anything that Barclays  may have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Barclays needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3546804