K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a car he financed through an agreement with FirstRand  Bank Limited, 
trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in October 2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. The car was three years old and had already 
completed about 32,000 miles.
He said he started having  problems  with the AdBlue  system almost immediately. In March  
2019 the car broke down  and a fault with the AdBlue system was identified: the pump had 
failed. The dealership said this was because  the pump had been allowed to run dry and they 
said Mr Ss warranty  would  not cover the work  required  to put things right.  They said the cost 
would be about  £1,000  and that Mr S would be responsible for paying it.
Mr S complained to MotoNovo and an independent inspection of the car was arranged in 
May 2019. The engineer said there  was a fault with the AdBlue  pump  but he didnt think  
there was enough  information to suggest the pump had been faulty or been  developing  a 
fault when Mr S took receipt of the car. He thought that it would have been unlikely that Mr S 
would have been able to complete the mileage he had in the car (about 11,000  miles in five 
months) if the fault had been developing from the start. So MotoNovo rejected Mr Ss 
complaint as they explained they were only responsible for the quality of the car at the point 
it was supplied.
Mr S therefore referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. 
He agreed that there was evidence of a fault with the AdBlue  pump  but he didnt think  there 
was evidence of the pump  being faulty  from the beginning. He noted that the independent  
inspector had not considered this to be the case. He went on to consider the AdBlue receipts 
Mr S had provided. He noted that Mr Ss usage  of AdBlue prior to the fault had seemed 
pretty much in line with what  the manufacturers and the AA would suggest was normal.  So 
he didnt think there  was evidence of abnormal usage which would have  suggested anything  
was wrong with the pump at the beginning. He therefore didnt think  it would be fair to 
suggest MotoNovo  take any further  action.
But Mr S disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN33749872board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. The car here 
was around three years  old and had travelled about  32,000 miles when supplied.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
But MotoNovos responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Here I am not persuaded that theres  sufficient evidence to suggest  the AdBlue  pump  was 
failing at the point the car was supplied to Mr S. I say that because:
the independent engineer doesnt  think theres  sufficient evidence;
Mr S completed about 11,000 miles in five months. The independent engineer  
doesnt think thatd  be likely  if the AdBlue  pump was faulty;
the receipts Mr S has provided suggest he spent  about £21 on AdBlue  in the months  
after he took receipt of the car and before it broke  down. Research completed  by the 
adjudicator and referred to in his final view of this case,  suggests  this is about normal  
for the mileage completed. I think there  would have been a significant deviation  if the 
pump had been failing and I dont think it would have been likely that usage would 
have been normal;
whilst  Mr S says he reported the AdBlue issue very early on, Ive not seen any further 
evidence that was the case. 
I therefore dont  think it would be reasonable to ask MotoNovo to take any further action as 
Im not persuaded this car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  when  supplied.
Ref: DRN33749873my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3374987