K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) acted  unfairly and unreasonably 
by refusing to refund  the insurance premium  paid for a travel insurance policy.  They  want  
some of the premium refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out an annual travel insurance policy with UKI through a bank account 
and paid to upgrade it to cover some medical  conditions and their age in October 2018. 
Mr and Mrs D decided not to travel anymore due to Mrs D suffering an accident  and a doctor 
advising against Mrs D travelling for the foreseeable future. They  asked UKI to refund the 
unused portion of the premium, but it refused. There was no cancellation claim as the airline 
refunded the ticket  costs for a trip due in January 2019 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to UKI. It said that it was made clear within  the policy that if an 
upgrade was bought, it was only valid while the policyholder was eligible for the policy itself 
by having the relevant bank account.  UKI also said that the policy stated if the account  was 
switched or closed, the upgrade would  be cancelled without a refund (unless the 14 day 
cancellation period applied and no claim had been made), and Mr D was told this when he 
called to accept  the upgrade.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to us, and said the branch of the bank involved told them to ask 
for a refund.  UKI told this service that Mr D closed the bank account in February  2019, which 
was when he asked  for the refund. The investigators view was that the complaint  shouldnt 
be upheld. He said that Mr and Mrs D had the benefit of the policy,  despite not making a 
claim, as they were  covered  if they had suffered eligible  cancellation costs.  And the 
investigator confirmed  that the terms and conditions of the policy, as well as the telephone 
conversation between Mr D and UKI, made  it clear  that there would be no refund if the bank 
account was closed while the upgrade was in place.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  They said that they didnt  accept that they had received any benefit 
under the policy.  The investigator pointed out that due to Mrs Ds accident, it was only due to 
the understanding of the airline involved that no claim for cancellation costs  was made to 
UKI; otherwise, UKI wouldve been asked to make payment.  Mr and Mrs D said that there  
was no risk of payment  after they decided not to go on holiday any more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can only look at the actions of UKI, not 
the bank.
The terms and conditions  of the policy state under  the heading Important Information  on 
page 1 that if a policyholder wants to benefit  from the insurance cover  with the bank account, 
they need to upgrade to cover medical  conditions and their age. Mr and Mrs D did that, so 
its likely  that they saw this information.  And just below  this information, the policy says that if 
you no longer have the bank account, the upgrades will be cancelled without a refund (with 
the exception  of the cooling  off period if no claim has been made). As a matter of law, UKI is 
correct to say no refund  is due.
Ref: DRN37772942Is that fair and reasonable? Mr D was reminded of this information when he called to 
upgrade the policy.  This is shown by the call recording (to which I listened). And while  
Mr and Mrs D have said that the reason they want the refund is due to Mrs Ds health, its 
relevant that the situation was caused  by the decision  to close  the bank account. 
Mr and Mrs D have said that they didnt receive  any benefit from the policy.  Thats  incorrect.  
If theyd had to cancel any trip due to a condition  or illness  covered  by the policy,  they 
wouldve been able to make a claim. Its only due to the attitude of the airline involved that 
no claim for the cancelled  holiday has been  made.  And while Mr and Mrs D have said that 
they decided not to travel again for the foreseeable  future due to Mrs Ds health,  thats  a 
decision that they have made. Mr D was still able to travel and have  the benefit of the policy. 
But given UKI made the position  about  the inability  to refund upgrades  so clear both within  
the policy and when speaking to Mr D when he took out the upgrade, combined with the 
cover given to Mr and Mrs D, Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or reasonable to refund 
part of the premium paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 March  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3777294