K820x#14Complaint
Ms M complains that Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited blocked her Pockit account and held 
her funds. The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered  by Wirecard Card  
Solutions Limited. 
Wirecard later closed the account  and returned  the funds to source.
Background
In January 2019, Wirecard blocked Ms Ms Pockit  while they carried  out a review.  As part of 
the review, Wirecard asked Ms M to provide proof  of her identification  and address because  
security had been failed on a previous attempt to access Ms Ms account. Ms M didnt have  
any of the documentation Wirecard asked for, so her account remained blocked and she 
couldnt access her money.
Ms M says this caused her a lot of financial problems as she needed the money to care for 
her two young children.
In April 2019, Wirecard made the decision to close Ms Ms account and return  the funds to 
the original source.  Ms M says the original source  was her parents bank account,  but she 
wanted a cheque sent to her directly. In May 2019,  Wirecard returned the funds to source.
Ms M complained to our service. The investigator didnt think  Wirecard  had acted 
unreasonably. He said they were  entitled  to carry out a review and he didnt  think  thered 
been unnecessary  delays.  Ms M disagreed. She thought if Wirecard could have returned the 
funds in May, then they could have done it in January, and it would have avoided  her going 
around 5 months  without  her money.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained further below.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
financial businesses to verify a customers identity. Having looked at the information 
Wirecard relied upon,  Im satisfied that they were  complying with their legal and regulatory 
obligations when  they blocked  Ms Ms account.  So, I cant  say they have done anything 
wrong. The terms and conditions of Ms Ms account also permit  Wirecard to block an 
account and Im satisfied  Wirecard acted in line with them.
I appreciate Ms M says she didnt have any of the documentation Wirecard had asked for, 
but I dont think  proof of identification and address is an unreasonable  request. I cant say 
Wirecard were unfair in asking for it. I appreciate its unfortunate Ms M didnt have the 
documentation, but thats not Wirecards fault.  They needed that to verify her identity in order 
to protect  her account and comply with their obligations. Ms M couldnt provide it, so 
Wirecard couldnt reinstate the account.
Ref: DRN33913042Wirecard are entitled to return any remaining funds in an account to the original source. This 
ensures the funds are sent back to the correct  person. Thats  especially relevant  in Ms Ms 
case as Wirecard couldnt verify Ms Ms identity. So, it wouldnt be appropriate to pay the 
money to her directly.  Ms M says the money which sourced her Pockit account belonged to 
her parents.  
Ms M said the delay  in returning the funds caused  her a lot of distress,  mainly  because she 
needed this money  to care for her children. Im sorry to hear of Ms Ms struggles, no doubt it 
would have been difficult. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Wirecard to pay Ms M 
compensation. I say that because, the money didnt rightly belong  to Ms M, it belonged to 
her parents.  So, I cant reasonably agree that any delay in returning the funds had a direct 
impact on Ms M.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Ms M feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a difficult and worrying  time.  So, I realise Ms M will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Wirecard have acted unreasonably and 
I cant agree  any delays had a direct financial impact on Ms M. And thats because  the 
source account didnt  belong  to her. So, Im not going to ask Wirecard to do anything
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3391304