K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold him a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T took out the PPI in January 2002  at the same  time as he arranged  the credit  card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr T has said that he cant remember anything about the sale.  But he believes that the 
policy must have been mis-sold to him because its well known that PPI was mis-sold  to 
millions of people.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ts application form. The form has a separate  section for 
insurance. There is a pre-printed  cross in the box to request PPI. From what  we know of 
BoSs sales processes at the time,  I think there would have been  a discussion about PPI and 
that the cross would  only have been entered in the box if Mr T said that he wanted  the 
policy.
The sale happened a long time ago, and Mr T has himself said that he cant recall anything  
about it. On balance I think it is likely that the optional  nature of the policy  was explained.  It 
seems to me that Mr T probably  decided  to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers  doing so.
As it was a branch sale, its likely that BoS advised  Mr T to buy the policy.  Therefore in 
recommending the PPI to Mr T it needed  to ensure that it met his needs. And from what  I 
know of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, it was suitable for him.
As I understand it, Mr T would have received some sick pay from his job. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this, and potentially for longer  than Mr T would have 
received full pay for. Mr T hasnt told us about  any other means he may have had, such  as 
savings. So I think the policy  could have provided him with a useful benefit at what would 
have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr T wasnt affected by any of those things. 
As I think  that Mr T had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont  think that further  
information would have caused  him to change his mind.
Ref: DRN32781842This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr T paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland plc has already offered to 
give Mr T back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr T now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278184