K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Ms G complain  about the lack of help and advice  they got from Bank of Scotland 
plc after Ms G became  ill in December 2016.  Mr H and Ms G want  the bank to stop 
threatening them with eviction and help them to manage their arrears.
background
Mr H and Ms G have  a mortgage with BoS. In late 2016 Ms G became unwell and Mr H 
contacted BoS.  Mr G is self-employed and felt that because of Ms Gs illness  he was 
concerned that he would have to take time off work and wanted  some support from BoS to 
give them  options  during this period. Mr H was also anxious to avoid the situation he had got 
into in the past with arrears. Mr H and Ms G complain that in the period after Ms G fell ill, 
BOS didnt offer any valid options to avoid the account getting  into arrears.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that BoS 
hadnt done anything wrong  in in the management of their account and in the communication  
provided to Mr H and Ms G. Mr H and Ms G disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Ms G had been in arrears  previously and had their arrears capitalised.  When  Ms G 
fell ill, they wanted to avoid this situation  happening  again. I appreciate  that this is a very 
difficult situation from Mr H and Ms G. Ms G has an illness  which has prevented her working 
and Mr H has had difficulty with earning an income  whilst  he has caring responsibilities for 
Ms G. This means that they have been  unable  to maintain their mortgage  payments. I can 
see according to the statement of account  that from February 2017 when the monthly 
payments were to be £809.73, the arrears  crept up until in October 2018 they were 
£7,282.72. It would seem that during this period that Mr H and Ms G on several occasions 
simply couldnt pay the contractual monthly  payments as they fell due. 
In February 2017  after Mr H contacted BoS about Ms Gs illness, Mr H and Ms Gs account 
was put in the hands of BoSs  customer priority team (CPT). BoS has said that at that 
stage it should  have told Mr H and Ms G about the cancer support team  but didnt. It has 
since apologised for this and paid £50 towards  their mortgage which seems appropriate. In 
April 2017 Mr H did an income and expenditure statement showing that they could pay the 
mortgage at that time and an arrangement was set to pay the contractual monthly payment 
for the following six months.
In June 2017 Mr H rang the CPT team to say that his income had decreased  and the income  
and expenditure  account  now showed that the monthly payment was unaffordable. The 
deficit recorded in the contact notes  was £789.54. The CPT team said that because  there  
was no available  income to make  a mortgage  payment,  they couldnt set up an arrangement  
plan. According  to the notes, Mr H said that he would try and pay half the payment next 
month and would keep the CPT team updated.  It was recorded that Mr H was self-employed 
and his income week on week could change but that he had to take time off as a carer which 
obviously affected his income. 
Ref: DRN39466262There appears to be very little contact between Mr H and the CPT team  for the remainder of 
the year. BoS continued to put a hold during  that period on any recovery  action on the 
account which indicates that it was dealing with the problem  sympathetically. I see that in 
October Mr H called to make a card payment. The contact note records the Mr H was 
advised that CPT needed to review details for a possible payment plan but Mr H didnt have 
time to discuss it that day but would call back by 23 October. The next note is dated 22 
November 2017  where Mr H called again  to make a payment. The notes record that  the 
adviser told Mr H that he needed to set up a plan and requested that he call back when he 
has all his finances together and the could go through  an income  and expenditure and set 
up a plan. But there is no record of a call back.
The next relevant entry  on the notes records that in April 2018, Mr H sent in an income and 
expenditure form showing a deficit of £853.48. Mr H also sent in a letter  saying that he 
hadnt received  help from the CPT team.
It would seem that during the period that Mr H and Ms Gs account was with the CPT team  
that initially in April an arrangement was arrived at that couldnt be maintained.  I expect that 
this was frustrating  to Mr H and Ms G as it was likely to happen  given his changing  
circumstances. In June  Mr H and Ms Gs circumstances had changed and at that stage the 
CPT team said that they couldnt agree an arrangement as there was no excess income to 
pay for the mortgage.  It doesnt appear that after June 2017  that Mr H or Ms G contacted the 
CPT team about any arrangement until April 2018.
The CPT team seems to have invited Mr H and Ms G to contact them if their circumstances 
changed after June  2017 but in the meantime  withheld from any action to recover the debt. I 
appreciate that Mr H and Ms G are unhappy with the response of the CPT team but Its not 
clear to me what alternatives  solutions could have  been proposed. Whilst Mr H and M Gs 
income was healthy  as it was in April. It seemed right to make a short term payment plan. 
When Mr H and Ms Gs income/expenditure showed in deficit as it was in June 2017 its hard 
to see what short or long term solutions  there would and it seems reasonable to ask Mr H to 
make further  contact when his circumstances changed. If there were periods thereafter when 
Mr Hs income  increased I expect some temporary  arrangements could have been made but 
Mr H doesnt appear  to have made further contact.  
From the information the CPT team had, capitalisation of the arrears wouldnt be suitable as it 
would eventually just increase the arrears as the payments couldnt be maintained.  Any 
restructuring of the mortgage would still require a mortgage payment and if the 
income/expenditure account was in deficit that wouldnt be possible.  I expect there  might  have 
been some  short term arrangements  made  during this period but this would have required Mr H 
and Ms G to have made more frequent contact with the CPT team than they did. 
As Mr H had no further contact with the CPT team until March 2018,  I can only review his 
complaint against  the team from the limited  contact he had with them. The problem for Mr G 
was that his income was uncertain and changed  from month to month.  The CPT team  
seems to have based its assessment of what Mr H and Ms G could pay on what they could 
afford to pay. Although in June 2017, this was no payment at all I noted that no pressure was 
put on Mr H or Ms G at that time and a hold put on collection  activity. Mr H complains  that he 
wasnt offered any options to avoid him going into arrears. But it would seem  that if Mr H and 
Ms G couldnt make  any payments, going into arrears may have been inevitable.  I dont 
believe that that is the fault of BoS. 
Ref: DRN39466263Mr H and Ms Gs have  now fallen into arrears. I know that they hoped  to prevent that but I 
dont consider the fact of the arrears to be the fault of BoS or that it could have done more to 
prevent the arrears.  BoS has a responsibility to be positive and sympathetic to the position 
Mr H and Ms G now find themselves in and I hope that Mr H and Ms G and BoS can come to 
a satisfactory arrangement. But in the absence  of an arrangement  I cant  say that BoSs  
actions are wrong in trying to recover the outstanding arrears.  Our adjudicator has suggested 
that Mr H and Ms G contact an agency  experienced in assisting people in financial difficulties 
which may be able to assist them. But, in terms of this complaint, for the reasons set out 
above I cant fairly say that BoS has done  anything wrong and I dont  uphold  it.      
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3946626