K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
December 1999.  Mr and Mrs C say Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-
sold them  the MPPI. The MPPI policy covered  both Mr and Mrs C.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint didnt  think  it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs C disagree so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
This policy was taken out in a meeting. Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs signed 
mortgage application. On it is a section  related  to PPI labelled  accident, sickness  and 
unemployment insurance. Mr and Mrs C have signed to say yes, I would like to take 
advantage of mortgage repayments insurance.  Ive also seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Cs 
separate PPI application form. Personal details have been entered  on the form including 
information relating  to Mr and Mrs Cs eligibility  and they have both signed the 
application. I also note theres nothing on the paperwork  from the sale to suggest the PPI 
was compulsory or a condition  of the lending. So on balance I think Mr and Mrs C chose 
to take the PPI and that Halifax made it clear they had a choice. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example  they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs C say they were  both entitled to generous sick pay from their employers. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay they wouldve  received  and for up 
to 24 months  if they were unable  to work because of accident or sickness. It also 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if either  Mr or Mrs C lost their jobs. So I think  they 
wouldve found the PPI useful. 
  
Its possible the information  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve  been. But as Ive said about I think they chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said  but these points dont change my 
conclusion. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32510442Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3251044