K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc acted  unfairly  and unreasonably in charging 
them an early repayment charge (ERC) when they transferred (ported) their mortgage to 
a lower value property. They want the ERC refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage product due to end in January 2019 with Santander (they  also 
had another product). They wanted to move  to a cheaper property, and so ported the 
mortgage product  to the new property in September 2018. As part of the mortgage was 
repaid early  as a result, an ERC  was charged.  Days after the move,  Santander sent 
Mr and Mrs M marketing  information telling them they could arrange a new product six 
months early  (though it wouldnt apply until the original  product ended as the interest rate 
was higher) without  paying an ERC; Mr and Mrs M did so. But they felt this meant the ERC  
had been unfairly  charged as if theyd known  about  the incentive  earlier, they said that they 
wouldve waited before proceeding with the port. Mr and Mrs M felt Santander shouldve 
showed them some  goodwill.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Santander.  It said the product offer Mr and Mrs M accepted 
made it clear  that if there was a partial repayment of the mortgage  early due to a port, an 
ERC would be due. Santander  said that the fact it let Mr and Mrs M book a new product 
afterwards was irrelevant;  they knew that the ERC would be due if they proceeded as 
planned.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us, saying  that they were considering cancelling the new 
product but Santander said this wasnt possible.  Santander explained that it was 
Mr and Mrs Ms choice  to take out a new product and it was done without its advice. It also 
added that the issue  of the rate was unconnected to the ERC as this was charged  due to the 
partial repayment of the mortgage,  which had nothing to do with the interest rate.
The adjudicators view was that Santander wasnt at fault. He said that Mr and Mrs M were  
aware of the ERC if they proceeded  with the port, and it was payable because of the value  of 
their new property, not because of anything connected to the interest  rate. The adjudicator 
also said that once  the new product was accepted, it couldnt be changed under the terms 
and conditions; he didnt  think Mr and Mrs M should  be allowed to cancel it.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said that they wouldve taken action to avoid paying an ERC 
and the date of port and repayment of the mortgage was irrelevant. The adjudicator  
disagreed that dates  were irrelevant and pointed out that the move wouldve had to be 
delayed until January 2019  to avoid the ERC. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints handling  isnt an activity  
within the jurisdiction  of this service,  so Im not going  to deal with the points raised  on this 
topic by Mr and Mrs M, though I will consider  whether  Santanders conduct generally  has 
been fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN34306532Its useful if I set out what happens when a mortgage is ported to a new property. 
Technically, what transfers  is the interest rate and the mortgage product, not the actual 
mortgage. The mortgage is secured upon  one property, and then released with a new 
mortgage taken  out over a new property. This can trigger an ERC, but lenders often agree 
that if the product is transferred to the new property, no ERC will be due. In Mr and Mrs Ms 
case, as the new property  was cheaper than the original property, they repaid early the part 
of the mortgage  that wasnt needed  any more which, under the terms and conditions  of the 
offer they accepted, triggered an ERC  for that part of the borrowing. This is unconnected  
with the ability to arrange a new product to replace the one that ended in January 2019.
After the porting happened,  Mr and Mrs M received a marketing email days later,  letting 
them know  that their product  was due to end in January 2019 and they could arrange a new 
product early  without  paying an ERC  (though  it wouldnt  come into effect  until January 2019 
 only arranging the interest rate was early, not the application of that rate).  Mr and Mrs M 
feel that this means  it was unfair  and unreasonable for Santander to charge the ERC in 
September 2018. I disagree. 
The ERC is unconnected with the marketing offer. The ERC  formed part of a contract 
accepted by Mr and Mrs M and was set out in the offer. It was also mentioned  in other 
documents, such as the offer for the other product  held by Mr and Mrs M, the porting offer 
and the redemption statement. I dont think its likely that Mr and Mrs M wouldve delayed  
moving home if theyd  received the marketing offer earlier; first, because lenders usually 
offer a new product to replace one that is ending and I think  its likely  Mr and Mrs M knew 
this; second, the ERC was due to the partial  repayment of the mortgage, not the interest  
rate. 
I also think theres an important point thats been overlooked. If Mr and Mrs M had ended  
their product  due to end in January 2019  early  to take out another  product after the move, 
they wouldve  extended the ERC period and wouldve had borrow the full amount they owed 
as Santander  was only offering a new product to replace the old one (which included the 
balance which was more  than needed  after the move). The option of ending  the product 
early, moving and then taking out a new product for the lower  amount Mr and Mrs M needed  
wasnt on offer; the only way to achieve this was for Mr and Mrs M to wait until January 
2019. This was known  to Mr and Mrs M but they chose to go ahead.
I think its fair and reasonable for Santander  to refuse to refund the ERC, to which its legally 
entitled. And I also think the evidence shows that Mr and Mrs M chose to take out another  
product without advice  to start from January 2019;  I dont  think  Santander is acting unfairly  
or unreasonably  in holding Mr and Mrs M to that choice, especially as theyre getting the 
benefit of the product.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 31 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3430653