K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the charges incurred  for extra days rent under  his hire agreement  with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS). 
background
Mr P took out a hire agreement with VWFS  due to end on 20 October  2016.  Towards  the 
end of the agreement, Mr P wanted  to buy the car and signed  an End of Contract vehicle 
purchase order on 22 August 2016. This said he planned to transfer funds electronically  
and to see the invoice for bank details.  
Mr P explained he mislaid this invoice  and requested another, but this never  turned  up. So 
he called  twice again to chase the matter, but it still didnt show. VWFS  havent  been able to 
provide records of these  calls. Mr P says he lost confidence in the purchase process, so 
decided to return the vehicle instead. 
Mr P called to book the inspection and collection on 30 November 2016, which was arranged  
for 16 December 2016. This first date was missed by VWFS, so the appointment didnt 
happen until January 2017.  Following this, VW applied charges for £641.72 + VAT for the 
extra days  hire. 
Mr P was unhappy with this  he said VWFS didnt tell him during this time that there  would 
be charges for the extra days hire. He added  that the vehicle was off the road and insured at 
his own expense. 
VWFS replied  and explained  that the charges for the extra  days  hire were  wrong,  because  it 
didnt use the right end date of the contract and the inspection happened later than it should 
have done. So, in fact, it was £299.82  + VAT. It added that the charges are explained in 
section 11 of the hire agreement. 
Still unhappy, Mr P brought his complaint to us. On 20 December 2019, I sent my provisional 
decision. In summary,  I thought the paperwork suggested that VWFS would  arrange  
collection, so I didnt think it was fair to add charges for extra days  rent.  
Mr P replied  with nothing further to add. VWFS  replied and accepted my findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither side has added anything further and VWFS  accepted  my findings, I see no reason 
to depart from what I said before. For completeness, Ive explained my reasoning again 
below. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ps hire agreement. It explains that he should  return the car at the end of 
the hire period and that if he doesnt,  hell pay compensation.  
Ive then considered  the End of Contract  vehicle purchase  offer. This incorrectly gave the 
Termination date as 20 September 2016.  Just underneath where Mr P signed it explained: 
Ref: DRN30494132To proceed  with this transaction,  please fax the completed form to  or post a copy  
to  Upon receipt, [VW FSs agent] will raise  and dispatch a sales  invoice. Payment 
terms are strictly 14 days prior to the contract termination date printed above.  Failure 
to adhere to the payments  terms will result in the loss of the opportunity to purchase  
and collection arrangements will be made for the uplift of the vehicle.
It follows, that if you consider the actual termination  date,  Mr P had the opportunity to pay for 
the car up until two weeks before 20 October 2016.  After that, VWFS would arrange for 
collection. That fits with Mr Ps testimony  that he was told VWFSs agent would arrange 
collection  
From the evidence Ive seen, I cant see that VWFS  or its agent did make any arrangement  
for collection when  the car hadnt  been  paid for. Instead, the records  show  Mr P called to do 
this on 30 November 2016. If everything happened as it shouldve  done  so had the 
payment terms expired  two weeks before and collection arranged  its likely the car 
wouldve been back in VWFSs possession by the termination date. That wouldve meant 
Mr P wouldnt have  incurred additional  charges for the extra days  rent. 
In saying this, Ive considered that VWFS  may have  delayed  the collection arrangements  
because of possible problems with the invoice  and, at that stage, Mr P was still showing 
interest in buying  the car. But that wouldve been VWFSs choice, because ultimately, the 
sale benefitted VWFS too. So, unless it can clearly  show  that new terms were explained to 
Mr P that superseded what was said in the purchase  order,  this doesnt change  my position. 
Ive also considered that Mr P used the car twice  after the end of the termination  date. Ive 
not been persuaded that if everything happened as it shouldve and, if VWFS recovered the 
car sooner, he wouldnt have been able to make other arrangements for these trips  indeed  
it seems he had another car. So, I dont think he used it because he had to, but rather the 
opportunity was there as it hadnt  been  collected. Im also mindful that the usage  was 
minimal  two days over nearly three months. It follows that I dont think its fair for VWFS to 
make any deductions  for extra days rent. 
In all, from what Ive seen so far, I think VWFS should waive  the charges for extra days rent. 
Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable. After all, this wasnt a case where someones 
deliberately and excessively used the car beyond its hire period. 
Ref: DRN30494133my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited to put things  right as follows: 
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  hasnt collected  the charges for the extra 
days rent, it should waive these.  If Mr P has already paid, it should refund them plus 8% 
simple interest (less any tax lawfully deductible)  from the date of loss to the date of payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3049413