K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in February 2002. The policy  was 
added to Mrs Bs credit  card account  when she applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
She told us she was in secure full time employment  and had adequate sick pay to cover  her 
credit card monthly  repayments. So PPI wasnt something she needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Halifax made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Mrs B made it clear on the form she filled in that she wanted to take out 
the PPI by putting a cross in a box to say she wanted to take advantage of this insurance. 
Mrs B couldve left this box blank if she hadnt wanted PPI. 
I can understand why Mrs B mightve  forgotten some of the details of an application that she 
made so long ago. But I think Mrs B wouldve  been able to see that it was up to her to say if 
she wanted PPI. And I find it was added to her account at her request.  
As this was a postal  sale, I dont think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs B. So it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs B had enough 
information to make a proper decision  about  whether PPI was right for her.
Mrs B was eligible for the PPI cover. Ive taken into account that Mrs Bs employer wouldve 
paid her 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid 
out in full for up to 12 months per accident  and sickness  claim. So the PPI provided better 
protection than she couldve relied  on getting  through her employer. And it wouldve paid out 
on top of sick pay providing  Mrs B with a useful benefit at a difficult  time  especially bearing 
in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled and she 
wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 months. 
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 
10 months for any one claim if Mrs B lost her job and became unexpectedly unemployed.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs B had life insurance set up. But PPI provided a different 
sort of cover  and paid out in different circumstances.  
So I think the PPI offered  Mrs B worthwhile benefits. 
Ref: DRN34820152Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs B chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to - and so she 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  was apparently  affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mrs B wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think she 
would still have taken  out the policy.
This means  I dont  find that Mrs B has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax  mightve  
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  3 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3482015