K821x#15complaint
Miss P has complained  about  AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to void her contents 
insurance policy and consequently decline a claim she had made  after she suffered a 
burglary. 
background
In September  2017, Miss P suffered a burglary. She wasnt  insured at the time.
The following  day, Miss P took out a contents  insurance policy  with AXA over the telephone.
In December 2017, Miss P made a claim under the policy, saying that she had suffered a 
burglary at her property in October  2017.
After getting further  information, AXA told Miss P it was voiding her policy and hence 
declining the claim.  This was because it considered Miss P had failed to mention when she 
applied for the policy that she had suffered the burglary in September  2017. It said that if it 
had known of this, it wouldnt have agreed  to offer her any cover.
Miss P complained to AXA about its decision. She felt it hadnt asked a clear question to 
elicit the information  about the previous burglary.
AXA wouldnt change its position.  It was satisfied that Miss P had been asked a clear 
question and should have disclosed the previous  burglary. It also noted that before she 
telephoned to apply for the policy, Miss P had obtained quotes online and it said she should 
have realised from the information presented to her during the online process that she 
should disclose  the previous burglary.
Miss P was unhappy  at AXAs decision.  She referred her complaint to us. She said that 
when AXA had asked  her a question about  previous claims and losses,  she had understood 
it was interested  only in previous home insurance  issues and not previous uninsured losses. 
She said this understanding was reinforced  by the wording of the policy  schedules  
Statement of Fact which was subsequently sent to her. She considered the information 
presented to online applicants was irrelevant  to her complaint  because  her policy was taken 
out over the telephone.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
It is not in dispute  that Miss P had suffered a burglary at her home the day before she 
applied for the policy. She wasnt insured for this. What I have to consider is whether Miss P 
should have told AXA about this burglary when she applied  for the policy the day after the 
loss occurred.
It is accepted that prospective policyholders arent  experts in insurance the way insurance  
companies are. The prospective policyholder isnt expected to automatically know  what 
information an insurer will want to know. An insurer communicates this to the prospective  
policyholder by asking them a series  of questions. The policyholder  is expected to take 
reasonable care to answer the questions correctly to the best of their knowledge. But the 
questions have to be clear enough  to elicit the information the insurer is looking to obtain.  If 
the question is not clear  and as a result  information  isnt shared with an insurer which was 
Ref: DRN30572452actually important to them,  the prospective  policyholder cant reasonably  be said to have 
misrepresented the situation.
In this case, AXA says it wanted to be told about  any claims Miss P had made  or losses 
which she had suffered, whether insured or not. Miss P says that isnt what she thought  AXA 
asked her about.
I have listened  to the telephone call when Miss P took out the policy. AXAs representative 
asked Miss P a series of questions. These  included  the following:
Have you had any home insurance claims or losses in the last five years?
Bearing in mind what AXA says it wanted  to be told, I dont think this is a clear  question.  It 
refers to home insurance but I dont think Miss P should necessarily have realised that AXA 
also wanted to know of any uninsured losses she may have suffered, such as the burglary 
which had just taken  place. It might be argued  that it was open to Miss P to seek  clarification 
if she was unsure whether she should mention the burglary  but it wasnt  up to Miss P to 
check this. If AXA wanted to know this information, I think  it should have been more explicit  
in the question it asked. I therefore  think it was reasonable for Miss P to have answered no 
to this question.  I do not regard it as a misrepresentation.
Miss P has drawn attention to the Statement of Fact which accompanied her policy  
schedule. This said:
Claims or losses in the last five years   no previous claims 
Miss P says that this reinforced  her understanding that AXA was interested  only in previous 
home insurance claims rather than uninsured losses.  I agree that the Statement of Fact is 
not as clear as it should be. I consider that if Miss P had checked  this it wouldnt have been 
obvious that AXA had offered her cover  based  on wrong information.
In its final response letter,  AXA also drew attention to the fact that Miss P had obtained 
quotes online before  she telephoned. It said the information which  Miss P would have been  
presented with while obtaining  those  quotes  served to clarify  that she needed to disclose the 
previous burglary.
I agree  that the information presented online is clear. However,  Miss P says that she hadnt 
properly read the online  information  because she never intended taking out a policy through 
this medium. I consider that Miss Ps explanation  is reasonable and I note that she didnt 
disclose the burglary when obtaining her online quotes. Given  that Miss P obtained her 
policy over the telephone,  I dont think it is reasonable for AXA to rely on information which 
she may or may not have  read online as a defence  for it not having asked a clear  question 
over the telephone. Indeed, the fact that the meaning of the question about previous claims 
or losses is spelled out clearly online perhaps serves to demonstrate  that the question asked 
over the telephone needed to be more explicit.
In view of the above, I consider it was wrong for AXA to say Miss P had made a 
misrepresentation and hence to void her policy. I consider that it should reinstate the policy  
and assess Miss Ps claim. I further  consider that its actions will have caused Miss P some 
distress and inconvenience for which it should  pay her £200  compensation.  
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN30572453Miss P accepted  my provisional  decision.
AXA didnt accept  my provisional decision.  It pointed out that Miss P took out her policy the 
morning after being burgled. It considered that the question which Miss P was asked clearly  
was intended  to encompass uninsured  losses and that she answered it incorrectly.  It further  
said she had ample opportunity  to clarify  matters  with its representative  but failed to do so. It 
highlighted that before calling it, Miss P had completed two online application forms to obtain  
quotes and, despite the online  forms explaining that uninsured losses  should be disclosed, 
she still failed to disclose  the burglary of the day before; it considered that she had 
deliberately withheld  this information  because  she knew  it might affect the cover she could 
obtain. It reiterated that if Miss P had told it of the earlier burglary, it wouldnt have offered 
her cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld. I shall explain why.
AXA has analysed the online form which  Miss P completed to obtain  quotes before she rang 
it to apply for the policy. I dont find its analysis particularly persuasive in demonstrating that 
Miss P did anything wrong.  Miss P has explained that she didnt closely read the online 
questions. As a result, she didnt mention her uninsured losses even though  the question 
clearly required her to do so. If Miss P had gone ahead and taken out the policy  online,  she 
could have had no complaint if AXA had subsequently voided it on the grounds  that she had 
made a careless  misrepresentation. But she didnt  take out the policy  online  and never 
intended to do so. I therefore  consider AXAs arguments are irrelevant. Miss P instead  took 
out the policy over the telephone. And as I have  previously explained, Im satisfied that 
Miss P took reasonable care to answer correctly the question  she was asked  during  that call. 
I dont consider that the question she was asked was clear enough for her to understand that 
she should disclose  the burglary of the day before.
AXA says that Miss P had ample opportunity  during the telephone call to seek clarification 
and to volunteer information about the recent  burglary. I dont dispute that. But she had no 
obligation to do anything other  than answer  AXAs questions. She wasnt required to 
volunteer why she had decided to take out the policy and I dont think there  was anything 
about which she was so unclear that I could  reasonably say she should  have sought  
clarification. It was up to AXA to ask for the information it wanted to know  about. And 
unfortunately for AXA, it failed to ask a question in the right way to elicit the knowledge of the 
recent burglary which  occurred while Miss P was uninsured.
AXA thinks  that Miss P deliberately withheld this information because she knew  it would  
affect her cover. I dont believe it has reasonably shown  this to be the case.  AXA might have 
had a stronger  argument if Miss P had sought  a quote online in which  she disclosed the 
burglary and then,  after finding that no cover was available, she sought  another  quote in 
which she didnt disclose  it. But this didnt happen.  Indeed, it seems that AXA only knows  
about the burglary because Miss M mentioned it while it was assessing  her later claim;  this 
suggests she was unaware that she might have done anything  wrong  at the time of her 
application. 
Ref: DRN30572454In view of all of the above,  Im satisfied that my provisional decision should stand. My 
provisional findings are now the findings  of this, my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
reinstate Miss Ps policy;
remove the record of the voidance from any internal or external databases;
assess her claim in accordance with the policys remaining  terms and conditions;  and
pay Miss P £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3057245