K820x#14complaint
The Estate of Mr P (the estate)  is represented.  Its representative says Grew Financial 
Services Limited (Grew) gave the late Mr P unsuitable advice, in 2012, to invest in the 
Omega Design & Build Partnership  scheme  (the partnership). The representative  says the 
advice was wholly unsuitable, especially because  the investment was too risky; it exposed  
Mr P to a potential and significant personal  tax liability arising from withdrawal of cash from 
his pension as part of the partnership investment;  and it caused him to incur significant  fees 
(paid to Grew).
background
I issued a Provisional  Decision (PD) for this complaint on 7 July 2021 and a copy  of it is 
attached below. The abbreviations used in the PD apply to the present decision.  In the PD, I 
mainly said:
I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD) on 5 February 2021 and concluded that this service 
has jurisdiction to address  the merits of the estates complaint.
Upon  review, in response to Grews continuing challenge against our jurisdiction, I retain the 
findings and conclusions in the JD.
The new evidence Grew has referred  to is not meaningful.  The evidence shows  that Mr P 
contacted the partnership  to change his investment amount around two to three months  after 
Grews documented involvement in fact-finding  and reviewing Mr Ps financial circumstances 
pursuant to the investment  both being activities which, as I considered  in the JD, are  
akin to what a firm would  do in the course  of advising a client and are arguably surplus to 
requirements in terms of introducing an investment. This does not amount to evidence  that 
Mr P arranged the investment himself without advice or arrangement from Grew. I consider 
that it shows no more  than Mr P notifying the partnership of a change to his investment 
amount.
Having established  provisionally, overall and on the balance of available  evidence   that 
the partnership  was an investment Mr P sought and wanted (and was therefore  a match for 
his objective at the time); that he was well informed about it and about its risks; that it was an 
investment which  matched his ATR; that he had the financial capacity to support that ATR; 
and that the investment broadly matched the wealth  allocation  he wanted to achieve (and 
that such allocation  was not unsuitable); the provisional conclusion  that follows is that the 
partnership was not an unsuitable investment for him.
I have not seen evidence  that the specific tax liability  that was later incurred, after the 2012 
investment and after investigations  that HMRC appear to have started around 2014,  was 
foreseeable or foreseen  at the point of investment. However, the risk of uncertain future tax 
treatment was foreseen by Grew  and Mr P was expressly forewarned about  it, so I do not 
consider that the tax liability, alone,  renders the investment  unsuitable. It was the result  of 
the risk of future tax treatment uncertainty that Mr P knowingly undertook,  within his level 4 
ATR assessment profile. I also have  not seen evidence that he incurred fees he had not 
agreed to or was unaware of, so such fees,  alone,  do not make the investment unsuitable.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the PD. Grew said it reserves its position on the JD 
and on its challenge  that the complaint  is outside this services  jurisdiction. The estates 
representative said mainly  as follows:
Ref: DRN38140362Further instructions  have been obtained  from the estates family, in terms of Mr Ps 
overall profile at the time of advice.
Other than his pension arrangement,  he was a novice investor and it is disingenuous 
for Grew  to claim he was a sophisticated  investor  interested in high risk investments. 
His Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  held two tranches of income producing  
shares, but after a spell of market volatility he moved all his funds into cash.
Mr Ps ATR could  not have been  at level 4 out of 5, his previous pension investments 
were, at the highest, at level 3 out of 5.
Grews charges  cannot reasonably justified. It charged Mr P an adviser  fee of 2% (of 
the investment  value) for the partnership investment; it then advised him to transfer  
his pension into the SIPP and to sell the investment to his SIPP;  in this respect  it 
charged him an initial fee of 3% (of the pensions  value) and a 0.5% ongoing fee; 
and, in total, Grew earned around  £24,000  in fees all related to the same investment. 
This alone defeats its earlier  claim that it did not advise Mr P. Further  evidence  that 
does the same is a copy of the email sent by the SIPP provider to Grew dated 16 
August 2018  and shared with this service  in which it confirmed, amongst other 
things, that according to its records Grew  advised Mr P on the purchase of the 
shares in the partnership.
It must  be noted that the investment was not directly into a UCIS, it was a direct 
shareholding in the partnerships Omega  No. 16 Developments  Limited company. 
Grew essentially failed to conduct proper due diligence on the valuation  of the 
shares, their valuation was unrealistic  and that is what  caused the HMRC problems.
The fact find evidence  referred  to in the PD exaggerated  Mr Ps financial profile. His 
wealth was limited to the value  of his home (£1 million) and the value of his business 
(also £1 million), so his investment represented  20% of his net worth,  not between 
7% to 10% as stated  in the PD.
The partnership was one of the schemes marketed to exploit pension  liberation at the 
time and this service  must be familiar with such schemes. The tax related risk and 
potential tax charge  of 55% was enough, on its own, to render the investment 
unsuitable for Mr P. The estate believes documents were simply put before Mr P to 
sign and that he signed them without understanding the investment.
Grew promoted the partnership to Mr P in breach of regulations.  He did not fit the 
requisite sophisticated investor  profile,  the certification that Grew relies upon  is 
misleading and, in any case, there is evidence (in the form of Grews own dated 
notes) to show that the partnership had already been promoted to him on 19 June  
2012 before  the documents he signed  on 17 July 2012.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including both parties 
responses to the PD  in order to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Having  done so, I have not been persuaded to change  the findings  made  and 
the conclusions  reached in the PD. I retain  those  findings  and conclusions,  and I incorporate 
them into the present decision.
Jurisdiction
I retain  the findings  and conclusions in the JD. Furthermore, I agree with the estates 
representatives view on the correspondence  between Mr Ps SIPP  provider and Grew on 16 
August 2018.  In that email, the SIPP provider explicitly stated that  according to [its] 
records [Grew]  advised [Mr P] on the purchase of the shares . This further supports the 
Ref: DRN38140363conclusions that Grew  advised Mr P on the investment, that the regulated activity of advising 
on investments happened  in the present case and that this service has jurisdiction to 
address the cases  merits.
Merit
I address the estate  representatives points as follows:
The limited state of documentary evidence in this case  has been noted by the 
investigator and by me, and I consider that it is also acknowledged by both parties to 
the complaint.  I understand the reference that has been made to the estates familys 
description of what Mr Ps profile  was at the time of advice.  However,  that description 
must reasonably  be balanced with available evidence of the profile he presented  to 
Grew at the time of advice. In the absence  of evidence that Grew had  or ought  
reasonably to have  had  cause to doubt  or question the profile Mr P presented, I 
consider that the balance of evidence weighs in favour of what he presented to Grew 
and outweighs what his family  has described. Without cause to doubt or question   
Mr P, it would have been reasonable for Grew to advise him on the basis  of what  he 
presented. The findings, in the PD, about his profile were mainly  based on the 
contents of documents signed  by Mr P at the relevant time and I retain  the views that, 
on balance, they are reliable and that they support the associated findings.  
The above addresses the points  that have been  made about  Mr Ps ATR and about 
his net wealth. The PDs  findings on these specific matters were  based the contents 
of the ATR and financial review documents he signed at the time of the investment 
and, on balance, I consider that information to be reliable. A similar consideration 
applies to the points that have  been made about the risks in the investment (including 
tax related risks), the PDs findings  in this respect was based on information provided 
to and agreed by Mr P at the time.  In terms of the failed  due diligence alleged by the 
estates representative,  I am not satisfied that the balance of available evidence  
establishes the allegation.
I also understand the reference that has been made to the charges applied by Grew. 
As I said in the PD   I also have not seen  evidence  that he incurred fees he had 
not agreed to or was unaware of, so such fees, alone, do not make the investment 
unsuitable. In general terms, I am not persuaded that the idea of a firm charging 
separately for an investment transaction and then for a pension switch  transaction  
automatically amounts  to something unreasonable. I appreciate that the facts  of 
some cases  might call for more probing into such a scenario,  but I have not seen 
anything in the present case to establish  that Mr Ps transactions were churned  
which appears to be the underlying  suggestion or claim in the representatives 
submission  for the sake of earning  fees for Grew.  Without more evidence  about 
what transpired between Mr P and Grew, and without more evidence  about his wider  
profile, I am not quite satisfied that the purchase of the shares, by the SIPP and from 
him,  which led to the second set of charges  the representative has referred to  
was surplus to what Mr P asked  for or needed.
The matter of promotion is arguably distinct,  and the point made by the 
representative in this respect does not appear to have previously been put to Grew 
for a response, so it would  be wrong  to determine it in this decision. It is also worth 
noting that the PDs findings already  reflected that Mr P was well informed about  the 
investment and that it was the type of investment he wanted  to make at the time. In 
Ref: DRN38140364this context, it is not clear  from the representatives submission how,  if at all, the 
alleged improper  promotion made a difference and/or how,  if at all, proper promotion 
 if such a promotion was lacking  would have made Mr P behave  differently.
My task is to determine the estates complaint. It is beyond  my remit to make generic 
findings about or in relation to schemes alleged to have been designed to exploit 
pension liberation  around the time of Mr Ps investment. For the reasons set out in 
the PD, and incorporated into this decision, I consider that the balance  of evidence 
does not show  his investment was unsuitable for him. The balance of available 
evidence also does  not support the estates representatives suggestion that Mr P 
was led to sign documents he did not understand.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision of 7 July 2021
complaint
The Estate of Mr P (the estate)  is represented.  Its representative says Grew Financial 
Services Limited (Grew) gave the late Mr P unsuitable advice, in 2012, to invest in the 
Omega Design & Build Partnership  scheme  (the partnership). The representative  says the 
advice was wholly unsuitable, especially because  the investment was too risky; it exposed  
Mr P to a potential and significant personal  tax liability arising from withdrawal of cash from 
his pension as part of the partnership investment;  and it caused him to incur significant  fees 
(paid to Grew).
Ref: DRN38140365background
Grew disputes the complaints merits. Primarily, it disputes this services jurisdiction to 
address the complaints merits.  It says it did not give advice to Mr P to invest  in the 
partnership, it says the complaint is out of time and it says this service  does not have its 
consent to address a late complaint from the estate.
I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD) on 5 February  2021 and concluded that this service  
has jurisdiction to address  the merits of the estates complaint. Within the JD, I found as 
follows:
Under the Financial  Services  and Markets Act 2000  (Regulated Activities) Order  2001 and 
in the context of investments, regulated activities include arranging deals in investment and 
advising on investments.  This complaint is about Mr Ps investment in the partnership.  In 
the absence of a regulated activity this service would not have jurisdiction to address the 
complaint. 
Grew says it did not give Mr P investment advice, so it did not perform this regulated activity. 
I acknowledge the absence of the sort of suitability/recommendation report/letter that can be 
expected from a firms  investment advice activity. However, that does not automatically 
mean Mr P did not receive advice from Grew to invest  in the partnership. 
Available evidence  includes  a letter from Grew  to Mr P in July 2012 introducing the 
partnership proposal  and enclosing terms of its service; Grews completed and signed fact 
find document from the same month and year; Grews completed  and signed  Personal 
Financial Review document  for Mr P, completed in June 2012; and the 2017 investment 
annual review document, which  states  Grew as the investments financial adviser.
Overall, I consider the above grounds  on which to conclude that the regulated activity of 
advising on investment  features  in this complaint. Grews terms of service disclaim  
responsibility for advising Mr P, but the fact finding  and personal financial  review exercises it 
conducted are akin to what a firm would do in the course of advising a client  and are 
arguably surplus to requirements in terms of introducing an investment. Furthermore, the 
2017 annual  review document  produced by the administrator for the Self-Invested  
Personal Pension which held the investment  referred to Grew as Mr Ps financial adviser  in 
the context of the review and investment.
In addition, or in the alternative, Grews  agreed 2012 terms of service expressly confirm that 
Grews role was to arrange Mr Ps participation in the partnership. This amounted to the 
regulated activity of arranging  deals  in investments.
I have not seen evidence   or written  (or some other)  record   of a complaint submitted by (or on 
behalf of) the estate earlier than the complaint  in 2019. That complaint  in 2019 was made  more  
than six years after the investment in 2012, so it is outside the six years time limit. The next issue 
to determine is whether  (or not) the complaint meets the three years time limit  that is, was there 
or should there have been awareness  of cause for complaint earlier than 2016? 
I have not seen evidence  that Mr P was aware  of information about his investment in the 
partnership (or about the partnership)  that gave him cause for concern and/or cause for 
complaint about  the investment. I do not accept the body of evidence  (about the 2014  
correspondence and the LAG correspondence between 2014 and 2016) that Grew relies  
upon. In contrast, I consider those documents to be unreliable.  None of them  show  Mr Ps 
Ref: DRN38140366full name,  none  show his residential address and none show  an email address for him. I do 
not find that there are grounds to conclude that they were sent to Mr P, or even intended for 
him  and I have not found  cause  to doubt the estates confirmation  that no such 
communications were  received by him because none exist in his records. 
I am satisfied that Mr P was not aware of  and ought not to have been aware of  cause to 
complain about  the investment prior to 2016  or prior to his passing. I accept that the 
sequence of events presented by the estates representative  that is, the 2018 SAR,  the 
review thereafter and then the advice on grounds  for the complaint  led to the complaint. 
The complaint was made within three  years of these events,  so it meets  the three years time 
limit.
One of our investigators  proceeded  to look into the merits of the complaint and concluded 
that the complaint should be upheld. His main  findings were  as follows:
He affirmed the view that the balance of available  evidence   which he referred to  
supports the conclusion that Grew advised  Mr P to invest in the partnership.
He noted that just because Mr P was a high net worth (HNW) individual did not 
automatically make his investment in the partnership suitable.
He noted that Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed at the fourth of five levels 
 he was assessed as being at level 4 (defined  as  I am quite adventurous and can 
accept a greater  level of risk) and the highest  level was level 5 (defined as  I am 
quite speculative about money).
He noted that the partnership was an Unregulated  Collective Investment Scheme 
(UCIS) which  was inherently speculative in nature; that the partnership  had been set 
up in 2009 to build a hotel  in Montenegro but, in 2012, construction that should  have 
started in 2010 had yet to begin; that there were political and monetary policy  related 
risks associated  with the project; and that there  were tax related uncertainties 
associated with the investment, which created additional risks and which  were  not 
sufficiently highlighted  to Mr P.
Overall, he considered that the partnership matched  a level 5 ATR assessment and 
not Mr Ps level 4 ATR assessment, and that there is no evidence  to suggest Mr P 
wanted an investment  exposed to the highest/speculative level of risk, so it was 
unsuitable for him in this respect.  He also considered that Mr P was led to use too 
much of his wealth (10%)  for such a high-risk investment.
He concluded  that the estate should be compensated  for the unsuitable investment in 
the partnership  and for the tax liability associated with the investment (which  would 
not have arisen  but for the unsuitable investment).
Grew disagreed with this outcome. It maintained that this service  should not be addressing 
the complaints merits because we lack jurisdiction  to do so. In this respect,  it repeated its 
arguments against our jurisdiction and its references to documentation  in which  
responsibility for advice  was expressly  disclaimed at the time of its engagement with Mr P. It 
stressed that its role was limited to Mr Ps introduction to the partnership,  that the JDs 
conclusion that it went beyond such a role does  not automatically mean that it advised Mr P 
and that the same applies to the inference that has been drawn  from the fees it earned  that 
too does not automatically mean  it advised  Mr P, instead it earned the fees through its 
introduction work. Grew also referred to what it viewed as new evidence, in the form of a 
letter from Mr P in September 2012  in which he directly instructed the partnership on a 
change of his investment  amount. Grew says this also shows  that Mr P arranged the 
investment himself and not through advice and/or arrangement by Grew.
Ref: DRN38140367Without prejudice to its position on our jurisdiction, Grew  also disputes the investigators 
findings on the merits of the complaint. In the main,  it says the partnership  suitably matched 
Mr Ps level 4 ATR assessment; that there is evidence  he received, and acknowledged, 
ample risk warnings (including  about the risks of uncertainty  in future  tax treatment, illiquidity  
risks and political risks  all associated with the partnership investment); that the investment 
matched his status as an HNW individual with substantial investment experience and with 
assets worth  around £3 million to £4 million; that there is evidence he chose to invest in the 
partnership despite  a less risky alternative  being  available to him at the time; and that there  
is enough evidence  to conclude that Mr P would have invested  in the partnership with or 
without advice, but perhaps  with a lesser stake  in the latter.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to review jurisdiction and then to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Jurisdiction
Upon review, in response to Grews  continuing challenge against our jurisdiction,  I retain the 
findings and conclusions in the JD.
Grew criticised the JDs treatment of the matter of advice. It said the time limit issue was the 
only matter to determine in the JD, so the JD went beyond  its purpose by addressing its 
claim that it did not advise  Mr P.
As quoted  above, and presently requoted, the JD said  This complaint is about  Mr Ps 
investment in the partnership. In the absence of a regulated  activity  this service  would not 
have jurisdiction to address the complaint. The JD also referred to authority for the activities 
of advising on investment and arranging deals  in investments being regulated. Addressing 
Grews claim  that it did not advise Mr P was not done arbitrarily  in the JD. It was an essential 
part of the JD. If Grew was correct and if it also did not arrange Mr Ps investment in the 
partnership, as it claimed/claims,  there  would have  been no regulated activity in the 
complaint. Without  such an activity  in the complaint this service would have no jurisdiction to 
consider its merits. As such, it was necessary to address this matter  as part of establishing 
our jurisdiction (or otherwise) in the complaint.
The new evidence Grew has referred to is not meaningful. The evidence  shows that Mr P 
contacted the partnership  to change his investment amount around two to three months  after 
Grews documented involvement in fact-finding  and reviewing Mr Ps financial circumstances 
pursuant to the investment  both being activities which, as I considered  in the JD, are  
akin to what a firm would  do in the course  of advising a client and are arguably surplus to 
requirements in terms of introducing an investment. This does not amount to evidence  that 
Mr P arranged the investment himself without advice or arrangement from Grew. I consider 
that it shows no more  than Mr P notifying the partnership of a change to his investment 
amount.
Overall, I do not consider  that Grew has presented any submissions or arguments that have 
the effect of altering my view on jurisdiction.  I also consider that the arguments  it presently 
makes were  essentially  considered and addressed  in the course of producing the JD.
Ref: DRN38140368Merit
I provisionally conclude  that the estates complaint is not upheld.
I understand the conclusion that was reached  by the investigator and I also understand his 
reasoning behind the conclusion. A prominent  factor in the complaint  as acknowledged by 
both sides, by the investigator  and by me  is the absence of some evidence  that would  
usually feature in a case of an advised  investment. As such,  I also understand that the 
investigators view was concluded in this context.  Nevertheless, and on balance, I am not 
quite persuaded  that Mr Ps investment in the partnership was unsuitable.
The first point to make  is that Mr P was made aware  that the proposed  investment was into a 
UCIS and that it was a very high-risk  investment. Grews correspondence with him at the 
time made the former clear and the same  applies to the ATR assessment document,  which  
he signed and dated. His answers  to the ATR related questionnaire confirmed he was 
comfortable with taking high risks and with the prospect of undertaking a UCIS investment 
and exposing up to 8% of his net worth (which  he specified, in contrast  to Grews suggestion 
of 15%) to a UCIS investment. The financial review document he signed also confirmed  the 
level 4 ATR assessment, which he acknowledged  and appears to have agreed with.
There is evidence of correspondence with Mr P in July 2012 in which (and further within an 
appendix) Grew listed risks for his attention  and consideration  with regards to the 
unregulated nature of the partnership investment;  the uncertainty  of future tax treatment; the 
inherent risk of losing  capital in property based  investments like the partnership; the same in 
terms of illiquidity of such investments; counterparty risks; and jurisdiction and political risks.
I am satisfied that Mr P was well informed about  the UCIS, about the high-risk  nature of the 
partnership and about the types of risks associated with it, before he invested in it. I am also 
persuaded that the partnership appears to have matched  the particular type of investment he 
sought to make at the time. I acknowledge,  again,  the limited  evidence available in this case 
but I consider  it relatively safe to reach  this conclusion because  there  is enough to show that 
efforts on both sides  Grews and Mr Ps  were concentrated  on the partnership 
investment and, despite being told about  the different forms of high-risks involved in it, there 
is nothing to suggest Mr P was hesitant  or that he sought a different type of investment. 
Indeed, available evidence suggests  his readiness  to present himself as an HNW individual 
and a high-risk taker, for the sake  of the investment.
The above  does not automatically  mean  the investment was suitable for Mr P. Grew was the 
expert in the relationship and, given  the finding that it advised the investment, it was 
responsible for ensuring the investment was suitable  for Mr P. In this respect, I consider that 
his level 4 ATR assessment offered itself in support of suitability.  I have taken on board the 
investigators finding on this point  in which he said the assessment did not quite match  the 
risks within the partnership. However, it is arguably  fair to conclude the opposite   that an 
investor bearing an ATR which confirmed he was adventurous and that he was willing to 
accept a greater  level of risk, can reasonably be viewed, in broad terms, as a high-risk taker; 
and as one for which a high-risk UCIS investment was a suitably matching investment. 
I agree  with the investigators reasoning that the level 5 ATR setting must have meaningful 
implications, but I am not persuaded that one such implication was that Mr Ps level 4 ATR 
assessment could not be a suitable match for the UCIS partnership investment. Both levels  
4 and 5 were essentially reserved for high-risk taking  investors.  Whilst I accept the 
implication that level 5 was arguably for the most extreme of such investors   which  Mr P 
Ref: DRN38140369expressly chose not to be classified as  I do not consider that the partnership was the most 
extreme of risky investments (or of risky UCIS investments) available at the time. Available 
evidence does not appear to show this, so it is conceivable that the partnership  matched    
Mr Ps [slightly lower]  level 4 assessment.
Based on the financial  review document he signed, at the time of the investment Mr P was in 
his late 60s, he appears  to have been semi-retired (with a degree of continuing  oversight in 
his business), he was married without dependents, he was in good  health, he had no 
liabilities, he had pension arrangements in place and his wealth was valued between  £3 
million and £4 million. On balance, I consider that this profile presented  a financial capacity 
(and capacity for loss) which did not mismatch the notion of a high-risk  UCIS  investment. In 
other words, in addition  to having  a suitable ATR for such an investment Mr P had the 
financial capacity to support that ATR  and I make  this finding mindful of the size of the 
investment in comparison to his wealth.
The estates representative stated the following:
The initial  investment of £45,240.00 to acquire  290,000 £1.00 shares in the Omega Build
and Design scheme has been  lost.
The initial  share purchase included a non-recourse loan of circa  £244,760.00.
I consider that the sum of both amounts stated above  around £290,000  equates to 
between 7% and 10% of Mr Ps net worth of between £3 million and £4 million (that is, 
around 7% of the latter or around  10% of the former).  On balance, I am persuaded that this 
is broadly consistent  with the 8% (of net worth) exposure Mr P agreed to for the UCIS 
investment; and, on balance, I am also persuaded that exposing  7% to 10% of the net 
wealth belonging  to a self-declared high-risk taker investor is not unsuitable.
Having established   provisionally,  overall and on the balance  of available evidence   that 
the partnership  was an investment Mr P sought and wanted (and was therefore  a match for 
his objective at the time); that he was well informed about it and about its risks; that it was an 
investment which  matched his ATR; that he had the financial capacity to support that ATR; 
and that the investment broadly matched the wealth  allocation  he wanted to achieve (and 
that such allocation  was not unsuitable); the provisional conclusion  that follows is that the 
partnership was not an unsuitable investment for him.
I have not seen evidence that the specific tax liability that was later incurred, after the 2012  
investment and after investigations  that HMRC appear to have started around 2014,  was 
foreseeable or foreseen  at the point of investment. However, the risk of uncertain future tax 
treatment was foreseen by Grew  and Mr P was expressly forewarned about  it, so I do not 
consider that the tax liability, alone,  renders the investment  unsuitable. It was the result  of 
the risk of future tax treatment uncertainty that Mr P knowingly undertook,  within his level 4 
ATR assessment profile. I also have  not seen evidence that he incurred fees he had not 
agreed to or was unaware of, so such fees,  alone,  do not make the investment unsuitable.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that the complaint from the 
Estate of Mr P is not upheld. 
Ref: DRN381403610Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3814036