K821x#15Complaint
Mr L complains  Elevate Credit International  Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr L took one running credit facility and then 3 instalment loans. Ive included some  of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan number loan amount received dateactual repayment  
date
1* £350 03/04/2014 27/02/2015
2 £350 15/05/2015 outstanding
3 £50 14/06/2015 outstanding
4 £50 20/06/2015 31/12/2015
* Loan one was a running credit facility (RCF) and this is different to the instalment loans that 
Mr L took afterwards. 
The RCF allows a consumer to either request  funds  up to their agreed  credit limit in one go 
or take multiple  drawdowns up to their limit. Mr L had a credit limit of £350. Each drawdown 
could be repaid via five monthly instalments. 
Sunny has already accepted that something  may have gone  wrong  when it provided loans
2 to 4, so it agreed to refund interest on these  loans together with 8% simple  interest.  When  
Sunny made the offer Mr L hadnt  repaid more than he had borrowed. But Sunny agreed to 
write off the outstanding balance assuming no further payments had been made to the third 
party appointed to collect the debt.   It also agreed to amend Mr Ls credit file to reflect the 
offer.  
In our latest  assessment an adjudicator didnt think Sunny had made an error when it 
approved the RCF.  He also thought the offer Sunny made for the instalment loans was 
reasonable and explained  that Sunny should remove any adverse information recorded 
about these loans.     
Mr L disagrees with what the adjudicator has said. He feels  Sunny shouldnt  have given him 
any credit  as he was very young when it lent. Mr L has also told us he has now repaid the 
outstanding debt. Sunny hasnt responded to the latest adjudicators  assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN30167352Mr L appears to only disagree  with the adjudicators assessment about the RCF. And Sunny 
has already agreed  that loans 2 to 4 shouldnt have been lent. It seems therefore that its 
only the RCF that is in dispute and so I no longer  think that I need to make a finding about 
the instalment  loans.  
So instead,  this decision will focus on whether Sunny  did anything wrong when it granted the 
RCF and its drawdowns. Ive noted  though that Mr L has said he has now repaid  his 
outstanding debt for the instalment loans and for clarity Ive explained  how Sunny should 
take this into account  when  putting things right. 
For the lending  that remains in dispute, Sunny had to assess  Mr Ls situation to check if he 
could afford  to pay back the amounts  hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do 
this in a way which was proportionate  to the circumstances.  Sunnys checks  could have 
taken into account  a number of different things,  such as how much was being  lent, the size 
of the repayments  and Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been  proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  Sunny should  have  done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts  to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr L having a large  number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated  refinancing may signal that the borrowing  
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly  after previous  borrowing had been repaid  
(also suggestive  of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably  repay  his RCF  not just 
whether he technically  had enough  money to make  his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments  could of course  be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his RCF 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The FCAs Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC)  states payments are sustainable if they are made without 
undue difficulties and in particular, made on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have  realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude  those  repayments  are 
unsustainable.
There was also an expectation  that Sunny would review and monitor how Mr L was using the 
RCF facility. CONC  6.7.2 says; A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and 
take appropriate action where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. 
Ref: DRN30167353So it wasnt  enough  for Sunny to just assess any further lending based on what it knew  
about Mr L when  the RCF had initially been  approved in April 2014. It also needed to monitor  
how Mr L was using  the facility - and then step in and provide  help when or if it could  see 
Mr L was, or was likely,  having  financial difficulties.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
When the RCF was given  to Mr L, he declared  an income of £1,250 per month and he 
doesnt appear to have  had any expenses at the time. But its not clear whether  a lack of 
expenditure information is a result of Mr L declaring  these were  zero or Sunny no longer 
having this information available. But, thinking about  the maximum monthly repayment that 
Mr L was likely required to repay if he drew down the full credit  limit (around £140) the loan 
appeared affordable. 
I can see that Mr L did initially drawdown the full credit limit of £350 on 3 April 2014. He then 
made a repayment  of £150 in May 2014 before repaying the RCFs outstanding balance in 
full on 4 June  2014. Just over a month later, on 8 July 2014, Mr L took a further £200. 
Considering these circumstances, particularly the gap of three months between drawdowns, 
I dont think Sunny should have had any concerns about the way in which  he was using the 
facility at this moment in time.  
Between 1 August 2014 and 7 November 2014  Mr L then took a further  seven drawdowns, 
most of which returned him back to or around his credit  limit. Like our adjudicator, I think the 
lending activity under  the RCF in October  and November 2014  could  have indicated  that
Mr Ls underlying financial  situation was deteriorating. But I dont think  theres enough 
evidence to suggest that Sunny should have had any real concerns about his ability to 
manage the account in a sustainable way. Mr L was able to make repayments regularly and 
wasnt borrowing over a particularly significant  period.
So I dont  think Sunny needs  to refund any interest and charges levied on the RCF.   
Sunny has agreed  that loans 2 to 4 shouldnt have been lent because Mr Ls loan usage 
indicated he wasnt using  the credit for short term borrowing needs. As Sunny accepts that 
these loans shouldnt  have been  lent, the issue for me to decide is whether the offer it has 
made is reasonable.  
Sunny has offered to refund interest on these  loans together  with 8% simple  interest.  It has 
also agreed to amend  Mr Ls credit file to reflect  its offer.  As the adjudicator has said,  I think  
this would reasonably mean Sunny should remove adverse information from the credit file. 
This approach is in line with what this service may have recommended had we decided  
loans 2 to 4 shouldnt have been  given. So Im not intending to review these loans any 
further. 
Mr L has said that he has made further payments  towards these loans since  the offer was 
made and has repaid  his outstanding balance. So when  Sunny is working  out what, if 
anything it needs  to refund Mr L, it will need to speak to the third party  to find out how much  
Mr L has repaid.    
Ref: DRN30167354Overall, I dont  think theres any further  compensatory offer that Sunny needs  to make as I 
dont think it was wrong to have  granted the RCF or lend the nine drawdowns.  The offer that 
it has made for the instalment loans however should  reflect all the payments Mr L has made 
in connection  with the instalment loans.  
Putting Things  Right
If any debt remains outstanding Sunny should,  if it wishes, buy the debt back and then carry 
out the redress below. If it cant (for example, because Mr L has repaid the debt) or doesnt 
wish to buy the debt back, then it needs  to work with the third party  to achieve  the same  
results. 
A)refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid towards  loan 4;
B)pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges for loan 4 
from the date it was paid to the date of settlement*;
C)remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loans 2 and 3, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr L as if they were repayments towards  the principal sum 
lent. If and when an overpayment becomes due this over payment should be 
refunded with 8% simple  interest*  from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date of settlement;
D)if there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B can 
be used to repay any outstanding principal balance. If this results in a surplus, then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr L. 
E)remove any adverse information  recorded  about loans 2 to 4 from Mr Ls credit file.\
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
If after carrying out the above, an outstanding balance remains  then Mr L and Sunny should 
try and agree a mutually  agreeable repayment plan. But Id remind Sunny  of its obligation to 
treat Mr L fairly. 
Ref: DRN30167355My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Sunny is a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3016735