K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance reported  incorrect information to the credit reference agencies. She wants the 
adverse entries  on her credit file removed.
background
Miss H tells us that in 2014 she took out a conditional sale agreement for a period of four 
years. Shes says that after the vehicle had been  returned to BPF at the end of the term the 
agent who collected the vehicle had advised that the sale of the vehicle would cover all 
costs. Miss H states that shes since been invoiced for £649 and despite  entering into a 
payment arrangement and keeping up to date there  have still been  late payment markers 
added to her credit  file. She says that as a result  of these entries shes  been refused a 
mortgage and lost the chance to buy the property of her choice. 
BPF told us that at the end of the agreement there were outstanding charges.  As Miss H had 
entered into a payment arrangement in January 2019 it said shed been advised  that this 
would be recorded  on her credit file. Although  it had agreed to remove some of the late 
markers as a gesture of goodwill it said going forward  it had advised her that these might be 
recorded. BPF has also explained  that it had paid £150 to Miss H due to her complaint not 
being processed as quickly  as it should.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that the 
charges which  had accrued at the end of the contract (£649) were  due to be settled by 18 
December 2018.  When this didnt happen  she said BPF was entitled  to record this on Miss 
Hs credit  file. She said that whilst  BPF had made a gesture of goodwill - and removed some 
adverse markers  - it had told Miss H that it might report these going forward  as it had a duty 
to report accurate information. She didnt think BPF had acted unfairly. And she noted itd 
paid £150 to Miss H due to delays in processing her complaint.
Miss H wasnt  happy with this outcome and felt that not all aspects of her complaint had 
been investigated. As its not been possible  to reach  an agreement an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss H feels strongly about this matter. And I understand her concern that 
adverse entries  on her credit file may affect any future applications she may wish to make  for 
credit.
Let me say at the outset  that I understand why Miss H was unclear about the entries  on her 
credit file. And I accept  that she may feel these were unfairly recorded. I hope  to be able to 
offer some clarity as to whats  happened.
Where information is incomplete, or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN39460522Most of the problems  which  give rise to this complaint commenced  from when the 
agreement terminated  and the vehicle  was returned in November 2018. In the normal  course 
of events as payments had been maintained the account wouldve been  reported as settled 
on Miss Hs credit file. But following the end of the agreement further charges  were accrued. 
These amounted  to £299 completion fee; £200 refurbishment charges; and £150  collection 
fee. 
Miss H has told us that the agent who collected  the vehicle informed her that all charges  
would be covered when the vehicle was sold. I cant account for what this agent said to her. 
But even at face value the comments arent  plausible. Not only wouldnt the agent  be aware 
of what charges might be outstanding hed be unable to know  how much  the vehicle would 
fetch at auction.  So he couldnt  reasonably  know if this would cover all the required 
payments.
Miss H entered  a payment  arrangement  on 10 January  2019  for the outstanding balance. 
This was set at £10 per month. The reason  late payment  markers  are added to the account  
is not so much the result of the payment arrangement. Its related to any contractual 
payments on the agreement not having  been paid in full and on time. So when Miss H didnt 
settle the full amount of £649 which arose  out of the agreement the account fell into arrears. 
Its those arrears that are being reported as being  late. And whilst Miss H kept up with the 
£10 per month payment arrangement this only had the effect of reducing the contractual 
arrears not removing them.
When a business  makes a report to a credit reference agency its required to report 
information that is both accurate and fair. This isnt always an easy  balance  to strike and in 
making the gesture of goodwill to remove some  of the late markers BPF was no doubt trying  
to be fair. But it was correct to say that going forward it might have to record  arrears on the 
credit file in order to accurately portray account conduct.
I doubt if this information  is likely to have resulted in Miss H not being  able to obtain a 
mortgage. It seems unlikely that many lenders could responsibly offer additional credit to 
someone who appeared to be able to afford only £10 per month towards a payment 
arrangement. And if Miss H can only afford  to repay  BPF at this rate its hard to see how she 
could make mortgage repayments which would  almost  inevitably be much higher.
BPF has also explained that due to the way it records  outstanding debt in its internal 
processes the term policy write  off - which appears on Miss Hs account  statement - 
doesnt have the meaning usually associated with the term write off. It explains that the 
sum owed  is removed from its main account  system. So that will show zero balance.
But when payments are made they are transferred to an internal holding account and its the 
balance of that account which will show the reducing  debt.
In summary,  I empathise with Miss H and I appreciate  that the ways in which  credit file 
entries are recorded is not always easy to understand.  But I cant say that BPF has done 
anything wrong  here in terms of recording any outstanding balances  or details of the 
payment arrangement.  And I doubt  if this by itself,  wouldve caused her mortgage  application  
to fail. I think the £150 paid to Miss H for the delays in processing  her complaint was fair and 
reasonable. And I shant be asking BPF to do anything else.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss H, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN39460523my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3946052