K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Legal & General Insurance  Limited  (L&G) wont pay their 
claim for subsidence under their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs W had an extension built to their property in 2005. In 2018 they reported 
problems with cracking to the extension. L&G arranged for an investigation of the site. It 
concluded that the likely cause of the damage  was tree root induced  clay shrinkage. But it 
said that the extension was built on a raft foundation which in its engineers view was not 
built to a sufficient  depth, and appropriate depth  of infill, to take account of mature  trees 
nearby. As the policy had an exclusion for Any loss or damage arising from defective 
design  L&G advised that it wouldnt accept the claim.  It said it would consider any report  
from an independent surveyor  at Mr and Mrs Ws cost.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service. They  then obtained a report from a 
structural engineer  (Mr E). He concluded  that L&Gs assessment of the claim was faulty  
Firstly he said that L&G had assumed NHBCs guidelines applied when they didnt have to 
be complied with for a domestic extension. He said building regulations applied and that the 
building had been checked and approved  by Building Control.
He said in any event  L&Gs  argument  that there  was defective  design was based on the 
assumption that the foundations should have been  designed according to the likely  
maximum height of mature trees. There is a conifer hedge  close  by which  over the years has 
always been kept to a height of 2 metres (maximum mature height 20 metres). And there  is 
a yew tree which is about 8 metres tall (maximum mature height 12 metres).  He said it was 
unrealistic, especially in the case of the hedge, to assume they would ever reach  their 
mature height. Based on the present height  of the hedge/trees  and applying  NHBC 
guidelines, Mr E said the foundations were adequate.
Mr E further said that he didnt think the damage  was likely to have  been  due to tree roots.  
He surmised that water from nearby drains could wash through the granular fill below the 
foundation and cause voids to open up. He suggested that this was why the subsidence  
damage hadnt appeared for ten years.
L&G considered the information supplied by Mr W from the engineer who had designed the 
extension. It was clear  that in designing the foundations NHBC guidelines had clearly been 
taken into account.  And those guidelines require the height of the mature  trees  to be taken 
into account. In any event it believed the damage to be due to tree roots  and said that the 
design of the foundations should have  taken account of the plasticity  of the soil and have  
been built accordingly. It suggested that a raft style foundation wasnt appropriate. It pointed 
out that the whole  area was vulnerable  to subsidence. It also pointed  out that the property 
itself had had a subsidence  claim in the past which resulted in partial stabilisation work. It 
said that should have been  taken into account  in designing  the foundation.
L&G also addressed Mr Es suggestion  about  the likely cause of the subsidence. It said if 
that applied, then the claim  wouldnt  be covered as the infill wouldnt be part of the site but 
rather part of the raft foundation construction. The policy defines subsidence as downward  
movement of the site,  so if the site itself hasnt subsided  there would be no claim.
Ref: DRN35062652I made  a provisional decision. I wasnt satisfied that, based on the actual size of the tree and 
hedge, that a technical failure  to comply with NHBC requirements regarding depth  of 
foundations would likely have affected  the foundations. I did think  that L&G should carry out 
further investigations to determine the cause of the subsidence. I also said it should pay 
Mr Es reasonable costs  for his report.
Mr and Mrs W have  made  further comments which I shall refer to below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional decision I said:
NHBC guidelines  and building regulations
Despite Mr E advising that NHBC guidelines dont need to be complied with for domestic  
extensions, I think  the evidence  from the engineer who designed the extension is that he did 
apply those guidelines. Certainly  the extension had to comply with the relevant building  
regulation. That regulation  requires  foundations  to be taken  to a depth where anticipated 
ground movements will not impair  the stability of any part of the building taking due 
consideration of the influence of vegetation  and trees on the ground.  It goes  on to say that 
foundations should be not less than 1 metre on clay soils (as here) but the depth may 
need to be increasedwhere there  are trees nearby.
The building regulations dont go on to say what  increase may be needed  but the NHBC 
guidelines set out a calculation for determining foundation  depth  according to the height and 
proximity of nearby trees.  While the guidelines strictly may not need to be complied with for 
the purposes of Building Control,  the building regulation is too vague without an additional 
method of calculation. Taken together with the fact that the NHBC guideline was taken into 
account in designing the foundation this persuades  me that if it wasnt followed this would be 
evidence, on the face of it, of defective  design.
If the guidelines had been followed, then the likely height of the mature trees  should be 
taken into account.  The most likely influence is that of the nearby conifer hedge,  which 
I understand has been kept to a height  of 2 metres since the extension was built. But I dont 
think that the design should take account  of the fact that an owner might keep trees at a 
particular height.  It seems to me that, with a conifer hedge  it could  very easily  reach a much  
greater height.  As the recommended depth of the foundations should have been  at least  
2 metres, given  the potential  height the tree/hedge  might reach, and was only 1.25 metres,  I 
would say that was defective  design. I dont think the fact that Building Control may have 
approved the design makes any difference to that. And it doesnt follow,  in my view, that full 
building regulation approval  means there cant be any defective design  or workmanship. But 
the fact of a defective design  doesnt  necessarily mean the claim should fairly and 
reasonably fail.
likely effect
The crucial  issue here is I think whether, given the defective design of the foundation, that 
was likely to be the cause of the damage. L&G has said that the site should have been 
investigated and the foundations designed  accordingly. It has said that given the clay 
Ref: DRN35062653content of the soil, a deep foundation was more appropriate and that the fact of previous 
subsidence should have been taken into account. But in previous reports it has said it was 
the depth of, rather than the type of foundation which led it to find defective design.
I think the fact that the extension was built on a raft foundation does  to some extent take into 
account the vulnerability to subsidence.  But here the subsidence damage didnt appear  for 
over ten years.  L&G has suggested that the damage had been appearing for some  time but 
the evidence is that the major  damage had only started happening recently. This would tend 
to show that the foundations were adequate for the size and proximity of the tree/hedge 
based on their actual size.
There is also the fact that the hedge has actually been kept to a height of two metres since 
the extension  was built. If we take the actual height and proximity of the hedge  and tree this 
would suggest  that NHBC  guidelines  would say that the foundations  were of sufficient depth. 
So, despite  the design technically being defective,  because it didnt take account  of the 
height of the mature trees, I dont think that this had any effect on the actual subsidence 
damage. I note L&Gs suggestion that a site investigation should have taken place at the 
time and that more  suitable foundations should then have been put in place. But I think thats 
talking with the benefit of hindsight. And I note that L&G has also said that it wouldnt be 
usual for full site investigations to take place in order to design an extension.   
Mr E has pointed  out that there is a conservatory  in the same area of influence built on much  
shallower foundations and that doesnt seem  to have been  affected. In my view,  following 
NHBC guidelines  the size and proximity of the hedge/tree shouldnt have affected  the 
foundations.
Mr W in response  has provided detailed comments based on his own expertise. He believes 
there was no defective design and in support has provided details of the raft foundation  
design and comments  from the original surveyor. I think first of all that, whether or not there 
was technically defective design is now irrelevant as my decision precludes L&G from relying 
on that particular  exclusion in the policy. Secondly, my findings were  based on the expert 
reports from both sides and while I appreciate Mr Ws comments, as Mr E has been 
instructed and has a degree of independence I still think it was reasonable to have 
considered his evidence against  L&Gs evidence and in preference to anything Mr W said.
cause of subsidence
In my provisional decision I further said:
L&G says the cause  of the subsidence is likely  to be tree root induced  clay shrinkage. But I 
think some  doubt has been thrown  onto that by the fact that the damage has only recently 
been happening and by the fact of the tree/hedge being kept to a certain  height.  But I dont 
rule it out.
Mr E doesnt  think it is due to tree roots but cant come  to any firm conclusion without more  
tests. If his view concerning the washing out of the infill is correct  that might  mean  the 
subsidence claim will fail, as subsidence, as covered by the policy,  hasnt occurred.
So, to establish  the cause  I think L&G needs to carry  our more investigations. This should in 
my view include monitoring of the site which may help to establish  whether tree roots are 
causing the subsidence.
Ref: DRN35062654I understand that Mr and Mrs W dont have  any confidence  in L&Gs  loss adjusters so dont 
want them  involved in any further  review. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W disagreed with 
L&Gs experts findings. I understand that they would prefer  an independent expert  whose 
findings would be binding on both parties. In my experience that sort of appointment often 
leads to further disputes, without being  able to refer it back  to this service.  Im not persuaded 
that I should tell L&G to use a different expert, although it can always  do so if it chooses. 
I also understand Mr and Mrs Ws disquiet  at the length of time any monitoring would take. 
But I cant expect L&G merely to accept the claim without such further investigations,  If 
Mr and Mrs W remain dissatisfied after the further  investigation they still have the option of 
pursuing a further  complaint to L&G, and ultimately, if not resolved, to this service.  
remedy 
In my provisional decision I further said:
My proposal,  which  is slightly different to that of our adjudicator  is that L&G should 
reconsider the claim which would  involve carrying out tests  to establish the most likely cause 
of the subsidence. I cant  say at this stage whether that will lead to the claim being accepted. 
But I dont think L&G should be able to rely again on the exclusion for defective  design, as in 
my view it has carried out all the necessary investigations of the design.
Mr and Mrs W will have incurred a cost in paying  for the engineer  to do his report. Since this 
has brought about a change in the outcome, I think L&G should pay or reimburse 
Mr and Mrs W for his reasonable  fees. If Mr and Mrs W have paid it, it should add interest  at 
8% from the date of payment until reimbursement. I will however only direct L&G to pay this 
if Mr and Mrs W can show me, in response  to this provisional decision, an invoice from Mr E 
for his services, with proof if appropriate  of the date they paid it.
Mr and Mrs W have  paid two invoices totalling £2,040 inclusive of VAT. They advise that if 
their claim is accepted, a further payment of £400  plus VAT is expected. Ill direct L&G to 
pay the £2,040. The claim hasnt actually  been  accepted yet. And my provisional decision 
was that L&G pay the reasonable fees of their engineer and I think the amount invoiced is 
reasonable. Any costs not yet incurred can be requested by Mr and Mrs W and considered  
by L&G,  as and when they arise,  outside  of this complaint process.
My provisional findings, as Ive set them out above, are now final,  and form part of this final 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Legal  & General Insurance Limited to:
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ws claim subject  to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, without applying the exclusion for defective design, and carry out any 
necessary investigations.
pay £2,040  in respect of Mr and Mrs Ws engineers report. L&G should  add simple  
interest* at 8% from the date(s)  they paid the invoices until the date of 
reimbursement.
Ref: DRN35062655Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*If Legal & General Insurance Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate
Ref: DRN3506265