K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about what  happened  when he wasnt able to make payments onto his 
credit card account with Vanquis Bank Limited.
background
Mr D lost his job and got behind with payments to his credit card account. He said Vanquis 
kept ringing him and asking him to set up a payment plan. It didnt offer him any other 
solutions, although he told it that he couldnt  pay. Mr D said he also told Vanquis that he was 
on medication for anxiety  and panic disorder, but Vanquis still rang him several times a day. 
Mr D said that Vanquis had paid him £35 in compensation,  but he wanted it to write off his 
debt, and pay more.  
Vanquis said it had listened to the calls Mr D had with it, and it was disappointed  to find that 
a call on 8 October didnt meet the standards  of service it would expect. It paid Mr D £35 for 
that. It said that its specialist team had tried to get in touch with Mr D, and he could call that 
team if he wanted to, for support with his account. 
Vanquis sent us Mr Ds statements. They suggest that no minimum payment was made for 
June or July, but his July statement shows he had previously been in credit. He started to 
use the card in July, and took it up to just under  the limit of £150. No minimum payment was 
made for August, September, October, November  or December. His statement dated  2 
September 2018 shows that he was over his credit limit, as a result  of interest and charges 
applied to his account. Mr D doesnt  seem  to have used the card since early  August. 
The call history for Mr D shows  that on 5 September,  he told Vanquis  he didnt have a job, 
couldnt afford to make  any payments, and he wanted it to stop calling him. But Vanquis said 
that he was happy for it to continue to hold his mobile number at that time. He told Vanquis 
on 17 October that he was behind on his rent. 
Vanquis made an ex gratia payment onto Mr Ds account, for £35, in November. He 
remained well over his credit  limit, as a result  of interest and charges applied  to the account. 
Vanquis said Mr Ds account  was defaulted in February 2019. It says it usually defaults  an 
account once  it has been in arrears  for 210 days.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought that Mr D had agreed to have 
Vanquis continue  to contact him using his mobile number. And she said that when Mr D 
didnt want to enter into a payment plan, Vanquis  didnt have many  other  options  but to 
continue to let him know about the arrears  on his account. 
Our adjudicator thought Vanquis  had provided poor service on a call on 8 October, but she 
said that Vanquis had done enough  to make  up for this. 
Mr D said that he was surprised and disappointed, and he didnt agree. He wanted an 
ombudsman to consider  his case, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
Ref: DRN31426262-First I looked at the phone conversations that Vanquis had with Mr D, then at how 
Vanquis managed  this account.
-Vanquis sent us recordings  of four calls that it had with Mr D. It told us Mr D agreed that 
it could continue to hold his mobile  number. But I didnt think Mr D agreed that Vanquis 
could continue to call him. He asked specifically  for the calls to stop He said he had 
mental health conditions and the calls were making it worse.  He offered to provide 
medical evidence  of this. But Vanquis  said the only way for the calls to stop was for Mr D 
to enter  into a payment arrangement. Over  the next call recordings,  I could hear that 
Mr D repeatedly asked Vanquis  to stop calling him. 
-Mr D was repeatedly asked to tell Vanquis  what was wrong with him, although  he did 
give permission early  on for Vanquis  to record his conditions. I thought that once Mr D 
had given that permission, it was inappropriate  for call handlers to be unaware of his 
health concerns,  and to repeatedly ask him for information Vanquis already  held.
-I thought that, given  the information that Mr D had shared,  Vanquis could and should 
have stopped calling Mr D about  this debt. I could  hear Mr D became distressed on the 
call recordings  I had. I understood from the call history Vanquis sent us that these were  
just a small sample of the calls made,  so I thought  it was likely that Mr D was also 
distressed on other calls.  I also thought  that, as Mr D had told Vanquis about his ill 
health, it couldve offered  him additional  support rather earlier  than it did. Overall, I 
thought that Vanquis  had made a difficult situation worse.
-For those reasons, I thought that Vanquis  should pay Mr D an additional £250 in 
compensation, on top of the £35 it has already  paid.  Vanquis should use that money to 
reduce Mr Ds debt to it in the first instance. 
-Then I turned to how this account  was managed by Vanquis.  
-Mr D hadnt made  any payments onto this account since summer 2018.  I thought  it was 
clear from his calls that he had no prospect, in the immediate  future,  of resuming 
ordinary payments to the account.  
-Vanquis continued to charge interest on this account, and to apply  fees because  Mr D 
hadnt made minimum payments and was over his limit. It defaulted his account in 
February 2019. 
-The Information Commissioners  Office  says when a consumer is at least three months  
behind with their payments then a default  may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered  by the time the consumer  is six months behind with their 
payments. Mr Ds account wasnt defaulted  until he was almost seven months in arrears. 
-I thought Mr D was clear that he was unable to make payments. For that reason,  I 
thought an earlier  default wouldve been  appropriate in this case. That wouldve stopped 
interest and charges  from continuing  to accumulate. I thought Vanquis shouldve  
defaulted this account at the start of November. So I thought that Vanquis should amend 
Mr Ds default date now, to 4 November 2018. And, because Id usually expect  that 
interest and charges  would cease at that point, I thought Vanquis should  refund onto this 
account any interest or charges  applied from 4 November onwards,  if it hadnt  already 
done so. 
Ref: DRN31426263 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr D didnt reply. Vanquis sent us a qualified acceptance of my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Vanquis said that it didnt  agree with the points Id made about Mr D needing to repeatedly  
explain the nature of his medical  circumstances.  I note Vanquis disagreement. But I dont 
think I need to comment  further on that, because Vanquis also said that it agreed to comply 
with my proposed decision, because of the other  points Id made.
Vanquis set out what it proposed to do. Its explained that it thinks  a small amount of money 
will be left over once it has cleared Mr Ds debts to it. Once Mr D has got in touch with us, 
and told us he accepts  this final decision (assuming he chooses to do so) then it will take 
that action, clear the debt, and send him a cheque.
Ill now make  the award I originally proposed.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis  Bank Limited  must  pay Mr D a further £250 in 
compensation. Vanquis Bank Limited  must  also amend  Mr Ds default date to 4 November 
2018, and refund any interest and charges applied to this account on or after that date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3142626