K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold her 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  with a mortgage.
background
In 1995 Mrs E took out a mortgage. At the same time she also took out PPI designed to 
protect her mortgage payments in the event they couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £10.35 a month. 
The mortgage account closed in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. They said that because things happened so 
long ago there wasnt enough evidence  to say that Mrs E werent most likely  given  a choice 
about PPI. And there was nothing  to indicate  the policy was unsuitable for them.
Mrs E disagreed. In summary she said:
Her main  complaint is that PPI was added without her consent.
She had enough means with her employee benefits and savings that she didnt need 
PPI. This was demonstrated  when she was on maternity leave. 
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Firstly  Ive noted Mrs Es comments around the conduct of Halifax and her belief its actions 
were criminal. It isnt our role at this service to decide on such matters.  That is for the 
regulator  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  to decide. Our role is to consider and 
resolve individual complaints  using a fair and reasonable approach  where we consider the 
evidence presented by both parties to reach our findings. But where there are gaps in the 
evidence and there is missing information,  we consider what  we think is most  likely to have 
happened in light of the evidence we do have. 
did Halifax make it clear to Mrs E PPI was optional?
As the adjudicator said, the sale of PPI to Mrs E happened many  years ago. And their 
mortgage account closed over 20 years  ago too. Because  of this its not surprising or 
unusual that Halifax  no longer has any paperwork from the time  businesses arent obliged 
to keep records indefinitely.
So while I hear what Mrs E say about  the policy being added  without her consent, given the 
passage of time and the lack of supporting information, I cant fairly conclude that PPI was 
Ref: DRN31203432added without her agreement.  I think  its likely she was given a choice  but I can 
understand why she cant  now remember this.
was PPI suitable? did Halifax properly inform  Mrs E?
 
Mrs E cant  remember how the PPI was sold or whether Halifax gave her a personal 
recommendation or not. Halifax says its records show the policy  was sold during a meeting  
in a branch and that it recommended the policy to Mrs E. On that basis, Halifax  shouldve 
made sure the policy was suitable for Mrs E. 
Whilst I accept  its possible that Halifax might not have taken all of the steps it should have 
to ensure PPI was suitable for Mrs E, given what shes  told us about her circumstances at 
the time,  I dont think it was wrong  of Halifax  to have recommended PPI. I say this because:
Mrs E was eligible  for the policy.
they was working on an employed basis and in good health at the time,  so she wasnt 
caught by any significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  for example to do with 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances.
I think she had a need for cover.  Mrs E says she was entitled  to between three and 
six months sick pay and she had some savings.  But the PPI wouldve paid out 
alongside her employee  benefits  and would have also meant her savings would be 
left intact. Mrs E was taking on a large and long term financial commitment on her 
own, which was secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for her. And I think having the security  that her 
repayments wouldve  been made  if she was unable to work wouldve been important 
to her. 
At just over £10.35 a month the policy appears to have been  affordable,  so its cost 
didnt make it unsuitable.
I accept given the lack of available  evidence and information that Halifax might  not have  
provided Mrs E with clear  and timely  information about the policy, including setting out the 
cost. But for the reasons why I think  the policy was suitable, I dont think  Mrs E wouldve 
been put off taking the policy out had Halifax done anything more.
So overall I dont  think it was wrong  for Halifax to have recommended PPI to Mrs E and 
theres nothing to indicate  more likely than not - that it was mis-sold. It follows  that I find 
Mrs E has not lost out as a result  of anything Halifax might have done wrong.
I know Mrs E feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, including 
that she says she didnt claim on the policy  when  she was on maternity  leave.  Looking  at the 
terms of the policy, maternity leave wouldnt have been considered a disability or a reason 
for unemployment so it wouldnt  have been  covered. So the fact she didnt use the policy  
during her maternity leave  doesnt change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Ref: DRN31203433Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3120343