K820x#14complaint
Mr K says HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr K bought the policy in August 2002  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr K for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It initially offered to repay  £350  a month towards  Mr Ks mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim and cost £20.79 a month. In October 2002 Mr K 
took out a further advance as an equity release and at this point increased  the benefit  to 
£400 a month for a cost of £23.76.
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a Machine  Operator. He has told us he was entitled to 
more than six months but less than twelve months sick pay to make payments to his 
mortgage if needed. In addition, Mr K says he had death in service and redundancy pay. 
And he also says he had around  £2,000  in savings. However, on the document completed at 
the time of Mr Ks mortgage  application, it indicates  he was entitled  to four weeks sick pay 
and then would revert to statutory sick pay. And after paying  his house deposit he would 
have had £500 in savings.
Mr K has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
HSBC has sent us information  to show that the mortgage account started in August 2002  
however there are no records of the end date. As HSBC  has full records from 2005, and its 
records do not have  an end date for Mr Ks mortgage, this would  indicate  the mortgage  
ended prior to January 2005.  
Mr Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ks representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ks representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr K about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN35719372The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr K and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Full records to indicate when exactly  the mortgage credit ended are not available. But as 
HSBC has full records from 2005, the fact the end date is not recorded  indicates that the 
credit agreement itself concluded prior to January 2005. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN35719373This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN35719374Whether HSBC gave Mr K sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr K know  he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The mortgage Mr K was applying for was his first mortgage and HSBC  undertook  a Personal 
Financial Planning Review with Mr K at the start of the mortgage application process  in 
June 2002. A Financial  Report was sent to Mr K outlining  what  had been discussed  and 
covering various  aspects  of his financial situation  with recommendations relating to different 
financial products. A copy of this Report has been provided.
This Report  indicates  that discussion took place in detail about Mr Ks circumstances, 
various products  that he may wish to have considered and Mr K made choices about what  
he wanted covered.  From  the information  recorded in the Report and sent to Mr K, I think it 
was made  clear to Mr K that he had a choice about taking out this PPI policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr K knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mr K says HSBC didnt provide advice during this sale. HSBC  doesnt agree with Mr K that 
was the case.  As I have indicated above  HSBC undertook a full financial review  for Mr K at 
the time of the application. The correspondence  sent to Mr K summarising  that review and 
providing the report clearly indicates that recommendations were made and advice given to 
Mr K.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr K with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know all that was discussed in the meeting, the documentary evidence  
suggests that HSBC  took what I consider were reasonable steps to establish whether the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr K. The adviser had information about Mr Ks 
financial circumstances as part of the full financial review and mortgage application. 
This included capturing details of Mr Ks basic salary and overtime  payments; the details of 
two loans Mr K had in place; considering  his current state of health; his savings, including  
what he was using  for the house purchase  deposit and what remained after that. There are 
Ref: DRN35719375notes of a lengthy discussion about how Mr K would manage  after his sick pay for four 
weeks ended and how he could  protect  his income  as well as insuring his mortgage 
repayments. 
Recommendations were  made to Mr K for levels of cover  for critical illness  and death and 
also income protection as well as PPI to protect his mortgage. The notes of the meeting and 
the follow up letter indicated  to Mr K the PPI policy would pay a claim for accident,  sickness  
or unemployment for a maximum of 12 months, and records that in relation to this, longer-
term accident and sickness  was discussed  and could be covered with an income  protection 
policy. So it seems to me that the adviser considered both Mr Ks short and longer-term 
protection needs. The record also reflects Mr K did not accept all the recommendations 
made and agreed  to some in part. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im persuaded HSBC did do all it should  have  done  to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr K given his circumstances.  So Im 
persuaded in this case that HSBC advised  with reasonable care and skill.
As a result, Im persuaded the policy was suitable for Mr K. In reaching that conclusion  Ive 
taken into consideration:
Mr K met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr K had a need for the policy  as it seems likely Mr Ks finances would be put under 
strain if he was not working   even allowing for the sickness  and redundancy benefits  
he was entitled  to. The policy would have helped Mr K manage the consequences 
were he unable to work.  This need  is reflected in the financial planning review  and 
the discussions that took place. 
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr K and was 
within the amount  Mr K indicated to the financial adviser was the maximum  he 
wanted to pay.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr K. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim  the adviser  recorded Mr K was in good  health. There  
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back  problems.
The policy would not pay out the first benefit payment for 30 days  when a claim was 
made. But Mr K had sick pay that would cover this period, and a small amount of 
savings, as recorded and considered by the adviser, so the PPI would make  the 
repayments when  the sick pay had ended  so providing the reassurance when Mr Ks 
other income may have stopped.
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it appears this too was considered  by the 
adviser because  they recommended  protection in the form of an income protection  
policy if Mr K was prevented from working for an extended period  and beyond  the 12 
month limit of the PPI. But as the advisor  indicated to Mr K, such  an income 
protection policy had a minimum of 13 weeks deferral  period  for Mr K and the PPI 
would provide the reassurance of repaying  the mortgage from the end of Mr Ks sick 
Ref: DRN35719376pay for several months  before any income  protection benefit was paid. So the PPI 
provided useful  cover  given Mr Ks circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr K sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied that Mr K was given a broad description of what  the policy  was intended  to 
cover (that is that the policy would protect  his payments if he was unable to work through 
accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. The benefit and costs 
are clearly  recorded in the Report and also the direct debit set up to pay the cost is set out in 
the review and report.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about all the exclusions or limitations  before  Mr K agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr K Im not persuaded HSBC did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. I cannot  be certain that HSBC gave Mr K all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ks representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means the business shouldnt  have  
just told Mr K about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him.
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr Ks representative suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that HSBC ought to have done either.  
Ref: DRN35719377what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr K? To what extent did Mr K suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr K. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr K suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr K would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
Im persuaded HSBC  took the steps  it should  have done to establish whether  the policy it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr K, and as a result  I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr K has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mr K would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr K says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr K had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, and Mr K concluded he wanted 
that product.  But he made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got  albeit I think  Mr K likely  had most  of the 
information he needed. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ks circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr K was given about the cost and benefit  
was clear. But the information  about  some other aspects of the policy,  such as the limitations  
and exclusions,  wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr K thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr K knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy,  having had treatment 
for that condition in the 12 months  preceding  the start of the policy;
Mr K could  not claim for unemployment  that started within  60 days  of the start date of 
the policy or unemployment which  he knew was pending at the start date.
Ref: DRN35719378I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr K pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
might have dissuaded some consumers  in slightly different circumstances from Mr K from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr K was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr K wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  he didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  accident and sickness claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr K 
would have expected to make a claim for accident and sickness on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr K would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not Mr K 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr K would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr K 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN35719379proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr K compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr K thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in  
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr K and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr K in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3571937