K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a loan. They  applied 
for the loan and PPI policy over the phone.  
The loan was repayable over a 120-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £265.20 
with the PPI costing  an additional £26.46  (variable) making the total monthly repayment 
£291.66. The policy didnt  attract  interest and could be cancelled  by either party  with 
30 days notice without  penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs G only for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Gs monthly loan 
repayment for up to 24 months in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs G was employed  as a nurse. The application form completed by 
Nationwides representative suggests  Mrs G had two different employers in her role as a 
nurse. She has told us she was entitled to at least 12 months  sick pay, but she has not 
provided any evidence  to support this. Mr and Mrs G didnt have any other means of 
repaying their loan should they be unable to work. Mrs G has said she was in good health at 
the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2002.  
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN33455082The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs G 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN33455083I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN33455084did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The telephone application form that was completed has a question about optional  PPI and 
the business representative has ticked yes to confirm Mr and Mrs G wanted the cover.  
Given the length of time since the call took place, its not possible to know what was said, 
but this suggests  a conversation took place and that Mr and Mrs G chose to take it during 
call.  This is supported  by the loan agreement Mr and Mrs G signed, which  shows  the cost of 
the PPI and confirms  that it was an optional product. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale and Mr and Mrs G havent said 
anything to make me think it did.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs G to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information  
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs G was unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and were made aware  
of the monthly  cost.  Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and the 
premium was confirmed on the loan agreement.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions and limitations before 
Mr and Mrs G agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN33455085In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs G suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs G. So Ive gone on to consider whether  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policy,  had Nationwide  done things 
properly. 
Mr and Mrs G say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs G had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs G chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs G thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs G has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs G were given  about  the cost was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and exclusions wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been.
Ref: DRN33455086Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs G would get back  in 
return in the event Mrs G made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Gs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mrs G 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  and 
which reoccurred within the first 12 months of the policy start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs G 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs G be unable  to 
do any job.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from 
taking out the policy.  
Mrs G was eligible for the policy benefits and it provided cover that, despite its limitations 
and exclusions,  couldve proved valuable  to Mr and Mrs G should the insured risks have 
become a reality.  The application form says that Mrs G had more than one job at the time of 
sale. But I think its likely Nationwide made  it clear  before Mr and Mrs G took the policy  that it 
included cover against unemployment. So I think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G the 
information they needed to make an informed decision when taking the policy. And I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mrs G wouldve been  caught by any other significant 
exclusions. So I still think Mr and Mrs G had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs G needed  to be totally unable to any job. I dont  think  this is 
likely to be too different  to what Mr and Mrs G would  have expected  to make a claim.  So it 
seems unlikely they would have thought Mrs G would have been able to make  a successful 
claim if she was still working. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mrs G made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN33455087Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Gs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs G found  themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 August 2021.
Ref: DRN33455088Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3345508