K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B complains, in summary, that John Lewis Financial Services Limited failed to make 
adequate due diligence checks before it:
1.provided her with a credit facility, and 
2.subsequently increased the credit limit on several occasions.
To settle  the complaint, Mrs B would like John Lewis to write  off her outstanding debt.  She 
is represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr B.
Background
Mrs B opened her John  Lewis credit  card account in 2005.  Between 2009  and 2013  the 
credit limit was increased several times, up to £5,300.  Mrs B says that, at no time  either at 
the outset or subsequently  did John  Lewis  ask her about whether she could afford  to repay  
the credit  facility, and she asks was an affordability check even carried out?
Mrs B further explains that she has been  diagnosed  with a spending  addition  and that, 
across a range of loans and cards, she owes £36,000.  In  accepting that some of the blame 
must be hers, after becoming unemployed in mid-2018 Mrs B entered into a debt repayment  
plan which  will run for over 10 years, and which Mr B has explained he is financing.
John Lewiss position is that it carried out the necessary checks  before it approved  Mrs Bs 
original card application, and that it did so again when it subsequently offered to increase her 
credit limit  when it also said she could either accept or reject its offers.   John Lewis has 
explained that, amongst other  things,  it took Mrs Bs income into account when it assessed 
whether or not to offer her the credit limit increases.
There was some initial discussion between  our investigator and John Lewis  about whether 
we have the legal power  to look into Mrs Bs complaint, after which it was mutually agreed 
that we could do so.  However, the investigator  then went on conclude  that John  Lewis had 
not acted irresponsibly when it both granted the credit card account  and subsequently  
increased the credit limit.  She  further  added that, in her view,  by allowing Mrs B to make  
reduced payments  once  it had learned  of her financial difficulty, John Lewis  had acted in an 
appropriately positive  and sympathetic matter  as it is required to do.  But  Mr B responded 
to say that he didnt  agree  with the investigators  conclusions, and he asked for Mrs Bs 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, our rules say that we can only consider a complaint if the event 
complained about occurred  within six years  from when  the complaint was made  to the 
financial business.  Mrs B complained to John Lewis in January 2019, so that would normally  
mean that we could  only go back  as far as January  2013.  However,  both the investigator 
and John Lewis accepted that we could go back further than that  because of a separate  
rule which allows us to look at older  events where  the complainant could not reasonably 
have known about the problem at the time. 
Ref: DRN33839692However, the difficulty of going back up to 15 years  to when  Mrs B first took out her credit 
card account   is that lenders are not required to keep records  indefinitely.  Mostly, they only 
do so for up to six years  which ties in with the basic timeframe of our rules and also 
equivalent limitation legislation (the Limitation Act 1980).  A primary purpose of this 
legislation is to prevent  stale claims from being  made which, because of the time that has 
elapsed, the respondent may have  difficulty answering.
In my view, theres some doubt about whether we do have the power  in Mrs Bs case to go 
back beyond 2013.  I say this because theres no doubt that  even if she did not then 
recognise the crisis which has [since]  occurred   she knew she had opened her credit card 
account.  It further seems  more likely  than not (given the way she used her account) that 
Mrs B knew  the credit  limit had been  increased  several times.  What  really gave rise to the 
claim was her inability to repay following the loss of her job, coupled with her diagnosis.
However, either way  and based  on the information that is now available  I find it difficult to 
conclude that John Lewis acted irresponsibly when it initially  provided Mrs B with her credit 
card account  and when it subsequently offered increases in her credit  limit, which  she 
accepted.  I say this for much the same reasons as the investigator previously set out  most 
specifically that, having seen account statements, it appears that Mrs B operated  her 
account correctly  and within the agreed facility as it was from time to time.  There  were  no 
signs of financial distress  or difficulty  and there  is also nothing  to show  that John Lewis 
was aware of Mrs Bs diagnosis.  I do recognise  that Mrs B had a range of other  credit  
facilities but, had she not lost her job, it seems more likely than not that she would have 
continued to use her John Lewis account  in broadly the same way she had done since  2005.
Finally, and although Mrs B did not expressly raise  the point in her complaint,  I have  come  to 
the same  conclusion as the investigator did about  John Lewiss  response to her financial 
difficulties once she explained the position in late 2018.  In  allowing her to reduce her 
payments in the way it did I consider that John Lewis  acted fairly, and in accordance  with its 
regulatory obligation to treat her circumstances  positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B either to 
accept or to reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3383969