K820x#14complaint
P Limited,  represented  by Mr C a director, complains about  the way Metro Bank PLC has 
dealt with its three business accounts  including freezing and then closing them  in 2016.
background
P Limited  opened  its accounts with Metro  Bank  in Spring  2016. Mr C, on behalf of P Limited, 
is unhappy that they were frozen  in early July 2016  without  an explanation being given. He 
says as a result of the banks gross misconduct he was questioned by HMRC and subject to 
action by it although no material evidence of wrongdoing was discovered. Mr C complains 
that Metro Bank colluded  with HMRC in defrauding the accounts of over £227,583  by 
converting the money in them into a cheque which was classed as cash and handed directly  
to HMRC. He wants Metro Bank to repay that money and pay redress  for loss of earnings,  
costs and damages. Together these total over £579,583.
Metro Bank  said in its first final response  of 2 August 2016  that its decision to restrict access 
to the accounts  was in line with its business  terms and conditions.  On 19 August  2016  it 
confirmed that it was unable to continue  to act as the companys bankers and said all 
accounts were being closed  immediately.  Again  this was in line with its terms and conditions. 
It also said that a Euro  balance in one account  had been converted  into Sterling and all 
account balances  had then been  combined into a single cheque for £227,853.37 which had 
been seized from the bank by HMRC. In a second final response  on 23 April 2019 it said it 
had acted in line with the accounts terms and conditions when closing them and in its 
dealings with HMRC.  
Our investigator felt that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said:
We cannot look at anything HMRC has done. 
The terms and conditions of the accounts say Metro Bank has an obligation  to co-
operate with HMRC  and may share  information  with it for certain crime and tax 
purposes. They also say it will only release  personal information without the account  
holders permission in limited circumstances which include to HMRC.
Metro Bank acted in line with its basic legal and regulatory obligations. And it wasnt 
obliged to tell P Limited why it restricted the accounts. 
HMRC made the request for the money in the accounts to be sent to it. And Metro 
Bank co-operated. We cant consider what HMRC did or the application of the 
legislation it works  under.
Metro Bank was entitled  to suspend the accounts and stop services if it had concerns 
about them  and this is set out in the terms and conditions.  It includes where  the 
service may be being used illegally, improperly  or for money laundering. Or where it 
wants to avoid breaking any legal requirements  or avoid action from any government.
As a result  he cannot make any recommendations  in favour of P Limited.
Mr C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He has recently  reiterated  
his arguments.  He says in summary that HMRC either unlawfully colluded  with Metro Bank 
or unlawfully bullied it to turn the money  in the accounts into cash  which could  be seized by 
Ref: DRN39091602HMRC under the provisions of the Proceeds of Crime legislation.  This caused him great 
inconvenience and he wants redress  for this and the repayment of the money that was 
taken. This was an abuse of power  by HMRC and collusion  by Metro Bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided detailed  submissions  to support P Limiteds complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I recognise that Mr C is very upset  about what happened. This includes with what  HMRC 
has done. But as the investigator  has said we cannot consider what  HMRC has done  or 
what it required Metro Bank to do. 
We also arent able to consider the extent,  interpretation or effect of the Proceeds of Crime 
legislation or how it was applied or interpreted in the case  of P Limited.  Only a Court can do 
that.
What is apparent is that Metro Banks terms and conditions make clear  it is obliged to, and 
will, co-operate with HMRC in certain  situations and that in doing so it may disclose personal 
information without  the account holders authorisation. And I think  that is what  it has done in 
this case. 
In the circumstances although I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling and frustration I dont 
think Metro Bank has done  anything wrong  in co-operating with HMRC in this case and I 
dont think that amounts  to any form of wrongful collusion as he suggests.  
Metro Bank  was entitled to suspend and stop P Limiteds banking services.  Its also 
legitimately entitled  to decide if it wants  to cease dealing with a customer and it isnt obliged  
to disclose the reasons for its decisions.  Thats an example of it exercising its commercial 
judgement in which we wouldnt interfere. 
In this case I think Metro Bank  was entitled  to suspend P Limiteds accounts and then close  
them as it did. And it wasnt obliged to give Mr C a reason for doing so. It also acted within 
its legal  obligations  and in line with the accounts terms and conditions by co-operating  with 
HMRC.  
Overall I dont think I can therefore fairly or reasonably  require Metro  Bank  to pay back  to P 
Limited any of the money that was seized by HMRC  or to pay it, or Mr C, any other  redress  
or compensation as hed like.
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN39091603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
P Limited  to accept  or reject my decision before 24 February 2020. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3909160