K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about how Zenith  Insurance plc (Zenith) handled a claim he made.  Mr G 
feels Zenith pre-determined his vehicle to be beyond economic repair.  Hes also unhappy 
with how the vehicle was assessed, as well as the level of service he received. 
background
Mr G took out an insurance policy to cover his motorbike in April 2018. He took the policy  out 
via a broker, and the policy was underwritten  by Zenith. Mr G may know  Zenith  by a different 
name, but Ive checked the certificate  of insurance, and Im satisfied Zenith  is ultimately 
responsible. 
In February 2019  Mr Gs motorbike was stolen. Mr G reported the theft to Zenith  and the 
police. The bike was recovered shortly after the theft by Mr G himself. The bike was then 
taken to Zeniths salvage agent for an assessment of the damage.  Mr G has said he 
informed Zenith of the damage in detail  before  it was sent to the salvage  agent, and that, in 
his opinion, the bike was repairable. 
When it assessed the bike Zenith decided it was beyond economic repair,  the report written 
by the engineer who assessed it recorded Mr Gs bike as a Category N total loss, which  
meant damage was to non-structural aspects of the bike and was repairable. But Zenith  had 
decided it was preferable  to settle  the claim on a total loss basis.  Zenith  offered Mr G an 
initial settlement  figure, which he declined, believing  the bike was worth more.  And after 
some further  negotiation,  Mr G accepted a figure of £6,000.
Mr G still thought the bike should have  been repaired, so he complained to Zenith about its 
decision to declare the bike a total loss; how it had generally handled things, and that he felt 
pressured into taking  the settlement figure. Mr G asked for his voluntary and compulsory 
excesses to be reimbursed. He also asked for an amended settlement figure, to reflect what 
he said was the true market value of his bike, at £7,000, as well as compensation for the 
considerable distress  and inconvenience caused. 
Zenith said there was no evidence the engineer had incorrectly assessed the bike or wrongly  
deemed it a total loss. Zenith went on to explain that it had offered three different valuations  
based on trade guides, and eventually settled with Mr G at £6,000 less policy excess. Zenith  
said it handled Mr Gs claim fairly, so it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr G brought his case to our service. An investigator here reviewed what had happened and 
said he thought  Zenith  hadnt done anything wrong; he explained  that the valuation offered 
was at the higher end of the trade valuations, and that Zenith had the right to decide  how it 
settled the claim, so it wasnt  unfair  for them to choose to pay the market  value of the bike.  
Our investigator also said the general  handling of the claim wasnt  unreasonable.  
Mr G accepted what our investigator  said about the bikes  valuation,  but he remained 
unhappy and, in summary, he said:  
the crux of the matter is his bike being  pre-determined as a total loss, his testimony  
and evidence had been ignored   and the bike was clearly  repairable;
he challenged the view of the experts mentioned in our investigators  assessment, 
and that a judgement on the damage could be made from the images provided;
no competent mechanical assessment  of the bike had taken place in a suitable  
environment;
Ref: DRN32539482damage had been  fraudulently listed;
the level of service hed received was poor.
Because Mr G didnt agree with our investigator, the case  has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr G has said he accepts what our investigator thought about the valuation he received for 
the bike, so Im not going to comment on that aspect of the complaint any further. But its 
clear Mr G still feels very strongly about  this case.  His detailed responses to our 
investigators assessment  and the information hes provided show two key areas of concern 
remain, so Ive addressed  each individually. 
I do want to reassure Mr G that I have taken everything hes said and provided into 
consideration, although I may not have answered every question  posed. This isnt intended 
as a discourtesy  to Mr G. Rather it reflects the informal  nature and remit of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  and my role in deciding this complaint. 
Zeniths assessment  of the bike and the decision to declare it a total loss
Zenith declared Mr Gs bike a total loss after it conducted an assessment. In its final 
response letter, it said engineers had assessed the bike on several occasions because Mr G 
disagreed with their findings. Zenith  maintained the bike was a total loss. But Mr G doesnt 
think the way his bike was assessed was thorough enough, and he still disagreed with the 
findings. 
In cases such as this, its important to be clear  that Im only deciding  on whether Zenith 
made a reasonable decision,  considering the available evidence.  
Our investigator said Zenith has the right to choose how to settle  the claim. But Mr G 
disputes this point, so Ive looked  first at the terms of Mr Gs policy.  The terms explain  that 
if your bike is stolen, damaged or destroyed, the insurer will, either:
pay for your bike to be repaired
or replace your bike
or pay the amount  of the loss or damage.
Additionally, the policy  explains The insurer shall have full discretion in the conduct of any 
proceedings or the settlement of any claim. So, based on these terms, Im satisfied Zenith  
does have the right to decide how it settles  a claim.  
Mr G fundamentally disagrees with Zeniths decision to declare his bike a total loss. And he 
believes his evidence has been  largely  ignored.  So Ive thought very carefully about what 
hes said and provided. 
Ref: DRN32539483Following the theft, and subsequent recovery, of Mr Gs bike, Zenith arranged for it to be 
collected and stored.  Mr G has questioned why it was necessary to take the bike to a 
salvage yard, when  he had explained the bike was repairable. But its not uncommon  for 
insurers to want to assess the extent of the damage for themselves, before  deciding how to 
settle a claim. And I dont  think  this is unreasonable. 
An assessment was carried out by an engineer  which  highlighted several issues.  Based  on 
this assessment Zenith decided the bike was beyond  economical repair,  so decided to 
declare it a total loss. I understand Mr G doesnt  think the assessment was thorough enough  
 but as Ive said above, Zenith  can choose how it assesses and then settles a claim.  I 
appreciate Mr G might think its unfair  that Zenith can do so, but its a term of his policy, and 
common practice in insurance. 
The bike was declared a total loss and assigned Category N, which  is for non-structural 
damage thats repairable. So, in effect, both the category assigned by the engineer and Mr G 
conclude the bike was, in fact, repairable.  But I need to consider whether  Zenith  should have 
repaired the bike, rather than declaring it a total loss. 
Mr G thinks Zenith pre-judged his bike to be a total loss. And he was very detailed in his 
description of the damage when he spoke to Zenith. But its not uncommon for insurers to 
anticipate the likely  outcome of a claim when theyre  first informed of it, particularly with 
detailed descriptions.  And in this case, Zenith appears to have anticipated the bike being a 
total loss. Our investigator said its regrettable Zenith didnt inform Mr G earlier of its initial  
thoughts, and Id agree.  But I also agree with our investigator when he said its likely Zenith 
were waiting for the engineers report,  before making a definitive choice about how to settle 
the claim.  
Once the engineer had assessed the bike their report quoted an estimate of £5,202.42 to 
repair it. But Mr G disagreed with the engineers findings. He says it cant have  been  a 
thorough assessment of the bike and some of the damage listed  was fictitious. 
Its worth  mentioning here that Zenith did offer Mr G the chance  to inspect the bike himself,  
and to arrange an independent  assessment.  Mr G said he was unable to organise an 
independent assessment because of the bikes location. Hes said the time and cost involved 
made arranging  his own assessment impossible. But Zenith  did what Id expect  it to do by 
giving Mr G the option. Additionally, Mr G was also given  the option  to buy the salvage. So if 
he did want to arrange repairs  of the bike himself,  he could have. Mr G didnt  do so, and I 
appreciate his reasons why, but the offer was made nonetheless, and thats  what  Id 
reasonably expect Zenith to do.  
Although he couldnt organise  an independent engineers  assessment, Mr G did visit the bike 
in storage and inspect  it himself. He maintained the damage  wasnt as significant  as the 
engineers report  said it was. Hes also said he spoke  with an approved dealer about the 
damage, who agreed with his conclusions. I dont  doubt Mr Gs testimony here, he may well 
have had such discussions  with a dealer who agreed with him. But I dont have a separate 
engineers report,  or any further evidence  from an independent professional or industry 
expert to support  this position. And as Ive said above, what  Im considering here is whether 
Zenith made  a reasonable decision based on the available evidence. 
Ref: DRN32539484This isnt to say Ive not given due weight to what Mr Gs provided. Mr G has said its clear  
from his photos  and verbal testimony that the bike wasnt in need of such  significant repair.  
But this is a difference of opinion, and the fact remains that the report  Zenith relied  on was 
written by a professional with expertise in the field.  And on balance, Ive not seen anything  
which leads me to question its integrity, so I cant fairly say it was unreasonable of Zenith  to 
rely on it.
Mr G has also said he disagrees with the opinion of experts at this Service. But that opinion 
isnt decisive and, while I understand  Mr Gs point  of view, the bike wasnt  assessed by 
anyone here. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied Zenith has the right to determine how it wants  to settle a claim. 
And Im also satisfied Zenith fairly  and reasonably  relied on a report from a professional  
when deciding how it wanted to settle Mr Gs claim. So, given  the evidence  I have  available,  
I dont think Zeniths decision to deem the bike beyond economical repair was unfair. 
the general handling of the claim and the overall time taken
Mr G is unhappy with how his claim was handled. He said the process took too long and 
caused unnecessary  stress. Among other things, Mr G has explained  there was no individual 
case handler, and Zenith refused to engage  with him when he tried to challenge its decision. 
Ive looked at the contact notes and complaint notes provided  by Zenith. Ive also thought  
about what Mr G has said about  his experience when  making  his claim, and its clear he 
feels very strongly about the matter. But having  considered the above, I dont think Zenith  
caused any unnecessary delay in dealing with the claim; it first spoke to Mr G in detail about  
the claim on 27 February 2019  and agreed a settlement figure in a telephone call on 
18 March 2019.  And I dont think thats an unreasonable amount of time for Zenith  to assess  
the claim,  and then decide how it wants to settle it. 
Additionally, Ive seen  that Zenith  spoke  to Mr G on several occasions  throughout the claim 
and his subsequent complaint. The contact notes show  conversations  about the decision to 
declare the bike a total loss, and the findings  made  in the engineers  report. So while Mr G 
may be unhappy that Zenith didnt comment on all the points he raised, I cant fairly  say it 
didnt engage  with him when he tried to challenge its decision.
Mr G has said he didnt have a specific case handler  dealing with his claim. And, on balance,  
Id agree it wouldve been useful if Mr G did have  a specific person to contact. But its not for 
this Service to tell Zenith how to operate or conduct its business. And Im not able to say 
Zenith should change its internal practices or how it administers claims.    
Its unfortunate Mr G found himself  in this position. And I dont doubt his strength of feeling 
about the matter   its clear the decision not to repair  his bike caused  a lot of frustration. But 
even so, my decision brings to an end what we  in trying  to resolve his dispute with Zenith   
can do for him.  
Ref: DRN32539485my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3253948