K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the TSB Bank plc (TSB) applied the wrong interest  rate to his monthly  
savings account,  and in recognition of their error,  promised to pay him £10 by way of 
compensation, but didnt. He also complains that he wrote several letters  to TSB between 
August and November  2018 but didn't receive  a response.
background
In September  2017 the TSB confirmed to Mr M by letter that they had applied the wrong 
interest rate of 0.2% rather than 0.3%  to his account. They promised to pay £10 to his 
account along with the accrued  interest  when his account matured in July 2018. Mr M wrote  
to TSB on the 19 July 2018, and then again in August,  October and twice in November, 
chasing matters  up. He did not get a response.
TSB said it had kept to its promise and had paid to his account £22.95  on 18 July 2018. This 
was broken down  as the interest of £12.91 and compensation of £10.04 (the 4p was 
additional interest). As such TSB said they had answered Mr Ms complaint and paid the 
compensation they had promised to pay.
Mr M was unhappy with TSBs response  and so an adjudicator from this service looked  into 
the complaint  but didnt think TSB had done  anything wrong.  Mr M disagreed  with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat the adjudicators summary of the background to this complaint because it is 
accurate and full and I want  to avoid repetition. But, if it appears that I havent mentioned 
something it is not because I have  ignored  it, but because  I dont  think its relevant to the 
issues I have to decide.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. TSB made  
a mistake in applying the interest to Mr Ms account and have accepted  that fact. 
They responded to his complaint in September 2017  and agreed  with him to pay 
compensation when his account matured. They did in fact pay that sum in July 2018,  so I am 
satisfied that TSB did in fact meet the promise they made. 
I appreciate that Mr M may have not understood that the credit of £22.95  he received in July 
included the compensation, but as a fact it did, and so TSB have done nothing wrong. Once 
they had paid the compensation the complaint was settled.
Mr M did of course write a number of letters after the payment in July 2018  to which he 
received no response, but that was because TSB had already paid the compensation. 
Having paid the compensation I dont think it was fair to expect TSB to carry on with 
correspondence about the complaint.
What I need to decide is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr M. I 
know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but I have  come  to the same conclusion  as 
Ref: DRN35787422the adjudicator  and for similar  reasons.  TSB acknowledged their mistake, made  an offer to 
resolve the complaint and fulfilled that promise. So, Im not satisfied that TSB have treated 
him unfairly .
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3578742