K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc wrongly reported  him to the police. Hes 
explained the impact  this has had on him. He would like money  returned  to his account  and 
sizeable compensation.
Background
Mr W provided financial advice over many years to a lady who Ill call Mrs A. During this 
time, Mr W was appointed as her joint attorney. Several years later Mr W was still helping  
Mrs A and, at her request, began to also provide  other help,  such  as cleaning  her home, 
which Mrs A paid him for every month.
Mr W took over more  responsibility for her everyday finances. To make matters  easier,  
Mrs A authorised him to have a third party mandate on her accounts.
Mr W realised Mrs As deposits with The Co-operative  exceeded  the limit for financial 
compensation. He recommended to Mrs A that they put her sole account in joint names so 
that twice the level of compensation  would be available.  But the application to do so wasnt  
successful because of Mr Ws credit  record.  So, instead, they applied  for Mrs A to be added 
to Mr Ws sole account. Mr W then arranged to credit that account  with around £29,000 from 
Mrs As sole account. The transfer was made,  but The Co-operative  did not agree to add 
Mrs As name to Mr Ws account.  The result being  that Mrs As money was transferred to 
Mr Ws sole account.
Mr W says he told Mrs A what had happened. And she said the money should stay in Mr Ws 
account. Hes explained that she gifted him money in the past, so this wasnt an unusual 
decision.
Mr W then opened an account  in his name with a third party bank to obtain a higher rate of 
interest. He gave instructions for three  amounts totalling £27,000 to be transferred from his 
account with the  Co-operative  to this account.
He then tried to do the same for Mrs A, opening  an account at the third party bank and giving 
instructions to The Co-operative to transfer  £20,000.  The Co-operative refused. So Mr W 
sent it the power of attorney.
The Co-operative investigated and became concerned about  the activity  on Mrs As 
accounts. So it referred the matter to the Office of Public Guardianship and the police.
Mr W told us he was arrested in February 2017, his assets were  frozen,  and he was not 
allowed to contact Mrs A. The third party bank returned the money received in Mr Ws 
account. But, rather than it being  credited to Mr Ws sole account  where it had been 
transferred from  it was credited to Mrs As sole account  where it had originated  from.
After a year, the police dropped its investigation  and no charges were brought against Mr W.
Ref: DRN38779352Mr W says The Co-operative should not have reported him to the police. He wants 
The Co-operative to:
 Repay  him the £27,000 which Mrs A had agreed to gift to him.
 Pay him £7,200  the income  he lost when  he was no longer able to continue helping  
Mrs A.
 Compensate him substantially for the anxiety  and distress caused.
Our investigators conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
The Co-operative had acted  reasonably  under its duty to safeguard  its customers.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary,  that 
 All the transactions were undertaken in line with his authority to act on Mrs As behalf.
 The investigator made assumptions based on information provided by the bank which 
hes not been allowed  to see.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W complained  to the third party bank  for returning the payment of £25,514.77  to 
The Co-operative. This is the subject of a separate complaint which has been referred to this 
Service. This decision is only about  whether The Co-operative  did anything  wrong.
I have considered whether The Co-operative was right to make a report  to the police. And 
whether it was right to ask Santander  to return the money Mr W had transferred and to credit 
it to Mrs As sole account.
Banks have a duty to safeguard all of their customers, particularly those who may be 
vulnerable. The Co-operative was alerted to the transactions  on Mrs As account and it 
investigated. I think it was reasonable for it to be concerned. A large sum of money  had been  
transferred from Mrs As sole account  to Mr Ws sole account with another  bank. Ive set out 
above how this came about  and Mr W says Mrs A agreed he should keep the money.  But 
the bank hadnt seen  anything to suggest that Mrs A had given her authority  to transfer the 
money into Mr Ws sole name. Mr W then sent the bank the power of attorney but, taking 
into account all the transactions on Mrs As account,  the bank thought it had enough 
information to make a report to the police. After  giving this very careful  consideration, I dont 
think the bank  acted unreasonably in doing so. Mrs A was vulnerable, and the bank  had 
enough evidence  to raise its concerns with the appropriate authorities.
Ref: DRN38779353The impact  of the police investigation  was obviously very distressing for Mr W. But I dont 
find The Co-operative did anything wrong. And it wasnt responsible for the action the police 
decided to take as a result of the Co-operatives report. It follows that I dont find the 
Co-operative was responsible for Mr W not being able to continue  to provide his services  to 
Mrs A and that it does  not need  to compensate  him for the income he says he has lost as a 
result.
Mr W told us that, following the police investigation,  all charges  were dropped.  But 
The Co-operative received enough information for it to be satisfied that the transfer  of 
£27,000 was carried out without Mrs As permission. Due to the General Data  Protection 
Regulation, the bank  and ourselves   cannot  share this information  with Mr W. He told us 
that its likely  that an old lady in a nursing home has had her mind  changed regarding whats 
been previously  agreed.  And I accept  thats possible. But Mr W hasnt provided any 
evidence to show that Mrs A freely  gave instructions to transfer the money to Mr W. Based 
on what I have seen,  I think  the Co-operative has acted fairly in returning  the money to 
Mrs As account.
Im aware Mr W will be unhappy with my decision.  He is of course free to reject my decision 
and pursue this matter  through other  means  should he wish to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3877935