K820x#14The complaint
Miss S says Marks  & Spencer Financial  Services Plc (M&S)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss S bought  the policy  in 2005  at the same time as taking  out a credit  card.  Miss S says 
she thinks she applied for it by a postal application.  M&S says it was sold via an internet 
application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ss case.
Having done this, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
M&S should have  taken  steps to make  Miss S aware she had a choice is whether to take the 
PPI or not. Miss S says she cant remember being  given a choice about taking out the policy.  
In our experience of this type of policy, when a customer  made an online application  they 
would have had to select yes or no to take the policy and the application couldnt be 
progressed unless an option was selected.  M&S  would have then sent a copy of the 
application to the customer in the post,  and the customer  would have had to sign separately 
to indicate agreement to both the credit card and the policy. And if the customer has opted  to 
take out PPI, the application  would include a pre-populated box marked  with an x. So, I can 
understand why Miss S thought she had completed  a postal application. 
M&S has provided a copy of Miss Ss application form. This shows  that Miss S signed  in 
agreement to both the overall credit agreement and agreed to take out the PPI. The 
application also included  a pre-populated  box which has an x in it. So I think  its likely she 
selected yes when  she completed the application  online. 
So, I think its more likely  M&S  gave  Miss S the choice to take the policy,  and that she chose 
to take it.
As the sale of the policy was online and not during a discussion with a representative, I think 
its unlikely that M&S  recommended  the PPI to Miss S, so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. But it did have to give her enough information so she could make her own 
choice. 
But having  thought about what we know about  how M&S sold these  policies around  the time,  
I think it wouldve given her some  information.  
Its possible the information M&S gave Miss S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Miss S doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
Ref: DRN30143802didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to her. Miss S has told us she had sick pay benefits  from her employer. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out alongside her benefits  and for considerably  longer. Ive also 
noted what Miss S has said about the savings  she had but having the policy  would have 
meant those savings could have been  used towards their intended use or to cover  other  
costs. So, I think the PPI wouldve been useful  to her. 
It also doesnt look like the PPI was unaffordable. So, I dont think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it.
Overall, I dont  think Miss S has lost out by anything M&S might  have  done  wrong  and as 
such M&S doesnt have  to pay back all the costs of the PPI to her. 
But M&S has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  M&S  didnt  tell Miss S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back  to Miss S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2020. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3014380