K820xAdvantage14complaint
Mr S complained about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited  handled his claim under 
his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  and his car was damaged. Advantage decided that it was 
uneconomical to repair.  They settled his claim by paying his cars market value to his cars 
finance provider.  But he wanted them to pay the full outstanding finance balance  instead. 
This was about £4,300 more than the cars market value. He said Advantage had told him 
theyd pay that. He felt that theyd misinformed him and given him poor customer service.
He was also unhappy that they hadnt given  him a new replacement car instead.  Advantage 
said their policy conditions meant they could only offer a new car if both the estimated cost 
of his cars  repair was more than 60% of the list price of a new car and if such  a car was 
available within 6 weeks. As neither of these conditions applied, Advantage paid the finance 
company his cars market value. 
Advantage said theyd acted  in line with their policy and had followed the correct procedure.  
They accepted that they didnt keep Mr S updated enough. And they agreed that theyd 
misinformed him about the settlement amount. But they felt that the policy was clear about  
what they could  do in the situation and the misinformation  didnt  override that. They 
apologised and offered Mr S £150 in compensation for their poor service. But Mr S didnt 
think that was enough.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that 
Advantage had acted  fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy when they paid his 
cars market  value. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy and it covers these issues on pages  25-26:
How your claims are settled
For loss of or damage to your car your insurer will either:
 pay for any necessary  repairs;
 replace your car; or
 pay the market value of your car immediately  before the loss (this is not necessarily
the value you declared when the insurance was taken  out).
. 
The policy also said that if his car was uneconomical to repair,  they would (if you and any 
other interested parties  agree)  replace  it with a new car of the same  make,  model and 
specification. This had certain conditions, including that the cost of repair  is estimated by 
your insurer  to be more than 60% of the current list price...of your car at the time of the 
damage; and.......the  replacement car is available in the United Kingdom  within  6 weeks  from 
the time of the loss.
The policy went on to say:
Ref: DRN33493922If a car of the same make, model and specification is not available,  the most your insurer 
will pay is the market value of your car at the time of loss or damage.
If you are still paying for your car under a hire purchase or leasing agreement your insurer, 
may at their option,  and where  appropriate,  pay a claim for the total loss of your car to the 
hire purchase or leasing company.
Advantage had an independent engineer inspect Mr Ss car to assess  its repair cost. They 
calculated that the repair cost was 58.52% of the list price of a new replacement  car. That 
wasnt more than 60% of the new car list price  so it didnt meet  that policy condition. But 
because it was so close, Advantage  did check with a large manufacturer  dealer group if a 
new car was available. So I think that was reasonable of them. The dealer said that a new 
car would take three to four months to be available as it would have to be ordered  from the 
factory. Any other dealership would have  had to order a replacement  car from the factory too 
and encounter the same timescales.  So Advantage decided to settle  the claim by paying  the 
market value to the finance company.
Mr S wasnt  happy about this. Hed checked with his local manufacturer car dealer about 
new car availability  and they too had agreed that it would be over 6 weeks.  But he said he 
was willing  to wait. He didnt think the 6-week condition was reasonable. However  I think  that 
including such a policy term is a matter for an insurers commercial judgment,  and as its 
clear in the policy I dont  think  its unreasonable. I think  that what Advantage did to check 
availability was fair and it was reasonable for them to decide that no new car was available 
within the policy timescale.
Mr S believed that Advantage then agreed to pay his car finance  company the full finance 
balance outstanding, not just the cars market value. So he was unhappy when they refused 
to honour that, even  though they accepted theyd misinformed him. He said hed relied on 
that information when he was working  out how to finance buying  a new car. He said that 
when Advantages  settlement was less than hed expected, he had to pay a lower deposit 
and higher monthly payments for it than hed planned. 
But I think the policy was clear that Advantage only had to pay his cars  market value. It 
doesnt require  Advantage to pay off the full finance  outstanding. I dont think  that their 
misinformation overrides  the policy wording. And although Mr S may have  had to rearrange 
his intended payment because of it, he did still buy the new car. And so I dont think  that he 
has relied on Advantages misleading comment to his disadvantage.
I realise that Mr S will be disappointed with this view. And I can see that it must  be very 
upsetting for him to have  lost his car and then receive unclear information about his options. 
But despite  that, I think that Advantage  have paid his claim as they should have. Theyve 
acted in line with the policy conditions and they havent acted unfairly.  
I think their compensation  offer of £150 wasnt unreasonable and I would expect them  to pay 
Mr S this now if he still wishes  to accept it. However  I dont require  Advantage to do anything  
else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN33493923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3349392