K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Trinity Lane  Insurance  Company Ltd. He isnt happy  that it 
turned down a claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs car was broken  into while he was in hospital after he had been run over in an 
accident at work. He had left his car in a car park while he was in hospital and it transpired 
that it had been broken into. The thieves smashed a window  and took a large amount of 
personal items from his car.
Mr H told his insurer about  this in July 2018  and reported the matter to the police. But as his 
insurance only provided limited cover  for personal possessions he chose not to claim and to 
repair the damaged  window  himself.  The car was in a car park at the time of the theft and 
wasnt linked  to his address  in any way. 
Mr H recovered the car to his friends  address where he was recovering which was a long 
way from home. Mr H realised that his spare  key was in a bag in the car at a later stage and 
says that he told his insurer about  this when he realised.
Mr Hs car was stolen from outside  his friends  address the following month and was involved 
in an accident.  Trinity Lane investigated the theft but turned down the claim. It felt that the 
car mustve been stolen  using the spare key that was taken during the earlier theft and that 
Mr H hadnt acted reasonably by not reporting this. It said that if Mr H had reported the theft 
of the keys it wouldve changed  his locks for him.
Mr H wasnt happy about this and complained to this service.  Our investigator looked into 
things for him and upheld his complaint. She was of the view that as the key was stolen from 
Mr Hs car when it was in a car park that wasnt linked to the theft address, that Trinity Lane 
hadnt acted reasonably in declining the claim.
As Trinity  Lane didnt  agree, the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld.
While I can understand why Trinity Lane  turned down Mr Hs claim I dont think  it has 
sufficient evidence to support  its position. As the investigator outlined,  the spare key was 
stolen from Mr Hs car from a location  that couldnt  be linked to Mr Hs home  address  or to 
the address where he was convalescing. 
So, while I can understand Trinity Lanes point,  I dont  think  it has enough  evidence  to rely 
on its general clause  suggesting that Mr Hs failure  to report the theft of his keys could lead 
to a claim. I say this as Mr H says he reported  the loss of his keys to the broker  and I dont 
think that Trinity Lane has investigated this fully. And as there  isnt any link to the theft 
address, I dont see how the thief would know the car was there. So, I dont think that Mr H 
could have foreseen the risk of the theft of his car using the spare key, especially as he was 
staying away from his home address while he convalesced. 
Ref: DRN31431962As such,  it is possible that the car was stolen by some  other  means and Trinity Lane havent 
looked at this in any depth. I know it has provided  a report from a specialist that inspected  
Mr Hs car that didnt identify any theft related damage. But, as Trinity Lane is aware, cars 
can be stolen relatively easily  without causing  obvious damage, and it hasnt really explored 
this in any real way. Instead it has focused on Mr H not reporting of the theft of his key 
(which he says he did) at the time of the first break-in. 
But Mr H couldnt drive  at the time of the theft and the other key wasnt  linked to the theft 
address. So the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular  circumstances of this case, 
is for Trinity  Lane to settle Mr Hs claim.  And it should pay 8% simple  interest  for the period 
Mr H has been without  payment.  
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Trinity Lane 
Insurance Company Ltd to settle  Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of claim  until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3143196