K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
mortgage in 2000 and increased in 2002.  Mr P says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
HSBC had to make  Mr P aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding it 
to his mortgage. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr P applied  for his mortgage 
and PPI but HSBC  has provided us with a copy of the available paperwork.  Mr P signed  an 
application form separate to his mortgage to take the PPI policy, and with this in mind I think 
he would  have known  the policy was separate to his mortgage and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr P 
has told us he was self-employed  when he took the policy. His application form for the 
mortgage shows he had an employer at the time.  But whether  Mr P was employed or self-
employed doesnt change my decision  as the policy didnt make  it any more  difficult for a 
self-employed person to make a claim.   
Mr P also doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover. So I think it was right for him. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ref: DRN39104542my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3910454