K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) refused to pay for eye injections under 
his private medical  health insurance  policy.
background
In April 2018 Mr B saw a consultant ophthalmic surgeon following problems with his vision. 
The consultant found that hed suffered a superotemporal  branch  retinal  vein occlusion 
(BRVO) with macular oedema. 
The consultants letter to the GP shows that treatment options were  discussed,  including  
laser surgery  and injections, but Mr B had decided to observe things at that point. 
In May 2018, Mr B met the consultant to review matters. The consultants  letter says he 
advised Mr B to have  a Lucentis injection. 
Mr B asked BUPA to cover the injections but it declined cover for the treatment.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this, so he complained  to BUPA. BUPA  explained that it considers 
BRVO is a chronic condition and so not covered under the terms of his policy. Further,  it 
explained that the treatment itself  the Lucentis injection  only gives symptomatic  relief to 
reduce and prevent any oedema and so it wasnt covered under exclusion 30 which relates 
to the temporary  relief  of symptoms.
Mr B disagreed and so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought BUPA had fairly 
applied the policy terms. Mr B disagreed as he considered the claim should  be paid. He 
made a number of points  including  the following:
-The injections have cured the oedema  hes now able to drive and read unaided. 
-He doesnt  agree our investigator  was correct to say that the condition  requires long 
term monitoring and further  injections. He says the leaflet he sent to our service  from 
Moorfields eye hospital refers  to an average of needing treatment for 4 years and, 
even though he hadnt had injections for 4 months  at the time he was writing, the 
oedema hadnt returned.
-He cant see any logical reason why the example of chronic heart disease given in 
the policy terms and a heart attack  which would be covered by BUPA  - is not 
equivalent to the BRVO  and the loss of vision he had  which  BUPA says isnt 
covered. The fluid build-up is a singular  incident caused by the BRVO  and is a 
symptom that has been treated by the Lucentis  injections.
Mr B and our investigator communicated  about the points  raised  but this didnt change  our 
investigators view. The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Ref: DRN36622482Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr B that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
In a matter like this, I have to decide if I think BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably  in 
declining Mr Bs claim for the injections.
chronic condition
Mr B says the Lucentis injections have cured  his oedema as his vision has been restored. 
BUPA says that BRVO meets the definition  of chronic condition under the policy,  so no 
treatment of it is covered.
Ive reviewed the policy terms to see if BRVO  meets  the definition of a chronic condition and 
I think it does. Chronic conditions are defined  by the policy as:
a disease, illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
-it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,
-check-ups and/or  tests
-it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
-it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
-it continues indefinitely
-it has no known cure
-it comes back  or is likely to come back.
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising  out of a chronic condition, or for 
treatment of acute  symptoms of a chronic  condition that flare up. However, we 
only pay if the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you 
being restored  fully to your previous  state of health,  without  you having to receive  
prolonged treatment. For example, we pay for treatment following a heart  attack 
arising out of chronic heart disease.
The letters Ive seen  from Mr Bs consultant  say that he developed  macula  oedema  in one 
eye which is typical of the condition he has, BRVO.  BUPA has explained that there is no 
known cure for BRVO,  only treatment  to improve the symptoms, and that its managed  
through on-going treatment and monitoring. 
The oedema had reduced Mr Bs vision in the affected eye. The information Ive been given 
and seen says the treatment of Lucentis  injections is to prevent the spread of the oedema 
and can restore vision. 
Mr B has focused heavily on the improvement  the treatment has had on his vision.  But the 
oedema and the blurred  vision is a symptom of his BRVO. So the medical condition  BUPA  
should be applying  the policy terms to is BRVO,  not the symptoms it causes Mr B.
Having said this, I think its clear  that BRVO  is a chronic condition within the definition  in the 
policy.
Ref: DRN36622483chronic conditions:  chronic heart disease 
The terms say BUPA will pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for
treatment of acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. BUPA has then used the 
example of chronic heart  disease as the chronic condition and stated itll cover treatment of a 
heart attack  arising  out of chronic heart disease. 
I understand the arguments raised  by Mr B in relation to this term. But I think  its important to 
say that this is an example used by BUPA in the terms of its policy to assist  in explaining the 
term. So I dont think this would automatically  mean that similar or equivalent scenarios 
would be covered. Even so, I dont think Ive seen  sufficient evidence thatd allow me to say 
that they are equivalent scenarios in this context which would mean  that the injections are 
covered.
BUPAs medical director explains that the difference is that the heart attack  is an acute 
symptom of the chronic condition. And, in this instance the treatment isnt for the heart 
disease, but to treat the acute event which is the heart attack.
With Mr Bs matter,  BUPAs medical director says the oedema is a symptom  of the blockage. 
The injections treat the oedema and the oedema isnt comparable  to a heart attack.
I appreciate Mr B disagrees  with BUPA, but he hasnt provided any evidence  to counter this. 
So, taking into account everything Ive seen,  Im satisfied BRVO  does fall under the chronic 
condition definition as set out in Mr Bs policy and wouldnt be covered  under the exceptions  
to this. Therefore,  its my view that it BUPA decision to decline cover  was within the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
temporary relief of symptoms
The policy excludes  treatment for the temporary relief of symptoms (exclusion 30). This 
exclusion says, 
We do not pay for treatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to 
provide temporary  relief  of symptoms or which is for the ongoing management of a 
condition.
I understand what Mr B has said and I accept that hes had a period of time without an 
injection and where he says his vision hasnt deteriorated. But, as Ive mentioned above, 
while I appreciate  theres a chance  that his vision may not deteriorate again,  the information  
does suggest  that hell still have BRVO.  The consultant said in his initial correspondence 
with BUPA  that Mr B has a typical case of the condition and that the treatment would hope 
to improve vision permanently but may need additional injections. And, although  he hasnt 
had further injections, he has continued  to be monitored by the consultant, albeit  at 
increasing intervals, even  up to 6 months. 
Taking everything into account,  I think BUPA has fairly applied  exclusion 30 and so can 
exclude the treatment Mr B tried to claim for.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we can do for him in trying to resolve  his dispute with BUPA.
Ref: DRN36622484my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3662248