K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains Chadney Bulgin LLP didnt pass his health information to the insurer  when it 
was arranging his life and critical illness cover.
background
In 2014 Mr Y was arranging a mortgage through an independent financial  adviser,  Chadney  
Bulgin. Mr Y says his mortgage provider required him to have critical illness cover (CIC) 
because of a heart  condition  hed had from birth. He talked to Chadney  Bulgin about this, 
and it disclosed his heart condition in the proposed application it sent when it asked  an 
insurer to give Mr Y a decision in principle. 
After being provided  with more information about his heart  condition   ventricular septal 
defect (VSD) - the insurer quoted Mr Y a higher premium. Mr Y wanted to go ahead  so he 
completed and signed  a full application form. And Chadney Bulgin asked an intermediary, 
which Ill call Company  L, to set up Mr Ys policy with the insurer.  It did so, and the policy  
started on the insurers standard terms and at a lower premium than quoted in the decision 
in principle.
In 2018 Mr Y had open heart  surgery for an aneurysm and couldnt  work for several months.  
He made  a claim under the CIC part of his policy, but the insurer said he hadnt told it about 
his VSD. So it declined  the claim and cancelled  the policy as if it had never existed. Mr Y 
thought that was unfair since hed disclosed his VSD. He complained to the insurer,  
Chadney Bulgin and Company L, and they gave their final responses.
The insurer  said it was correct to decline  Mr Ys claim  and avoid his policy  because  
Company L hadnt included his medical disclosures when it submitted his application form. 
But also because it asked  Mr Y to check and confirm all the information Company  L had 
submitted in the application on his behalf, and hed signed to say it was all correct  except for 
an alternative phone number.
Company L said it wasnt involved in obtaining  the decision in principle, but made an error by 
not including  - in the final application  it submitted to the insurer  - the VSD information 
Chadney Bulgin gave it. But it said Mr Y had checked and signed  the information  it submitted 
to the insurer. And that both Mr Y and Chadney Bulgin should have been  alerted by the 
insurer providing cover at a lower  premium than quoted in the decision in principle.
In its final response,  Chadney Bulgin  said Mr Y told it about his VSD and it included that 
information when  arranging the decision in principle.  But it said Mr Y didnt disclose his VSD 
in the final application form he completed and signed. And that when he was later asked to 
check and confirm that final application form, he didnt correct  that. It said this overrode 
previous correspondence and didnt  uphold his complaint. 
Mr Y asked our service  to investigate. Regarding arranging the policy, our investigator 
ultimately thought  this complaint should fairly  be against Chadney Bulgin  rather  than 
Company L, since Company L was acting  on its behalf. 
After considering the complaint, our investigator  said Company L didnt quote the decision in 
principle reference  number when it submitted the final application, so the VSD information 
wasnt linked  to it. So the policy was set up under a misrepresentation that Chadney Bulgin  
was ultimately responsible for. Our investigator  said Chadney Bulgin didnt need to pay 
Ref: DRN35443592Mr Ys claim, as he likely  wouldnt have been able to get CIC elsewhere and so no claim 
would ever have  been  paid. But that Chadney Bulgin should pay £750 compensation for the 
distress Mr Y was caused in finding  he didnt in fact have cover, at an already difficult  time.
Mr Y disagreed with our investigator. In summary, he said:
The insurer knew about his VSD and had quoted a higher premium  because of it, so 
it accepted the risk and would have covered him. 
Hed suffered financially whilst  he was unable to work.
Other insurers hed contacted couldnt say whether theyd have offered him CIC.
The policy went ahead with a lower premium than hed previously been quoted, 
which Mr Y had thought odd. And Chadney Bulgin should have queried this.
Hed only ever dealt  with Chadney Bulgin. It was responsible for arranging  the policy 
correctly, and either it or Company L failed to tell the insurer about  his VSD - the 
failure to disclose wasnt deliberate on his part. 
He accepted the final application was subject to underwriting. And had the insurer 
looked at his medical records  it would have seen his VSD was mild and caused no 
problem.
The insurer or Chadney Bulgin  should pay him a proportion,  if not all, of the sum 
insured.
Chadney Bulgin advised him the confirmation pack he received from the insurer was 
just a duplicate  of the information provided for the decision in principle. So he simply 
signed and returned  it.
At the time, he was young and relying on Chadney Bulgins professional  advice.
Chadney Bulgin also disagreed with our investigator. It said it wasnt  responsible  for the 
submission of information to the insurer, so the complaint should  instead be against  
Company L. In further communication, our investigator reiterated we could consider a 
complaint against  Chadney  Bulgin and said it had itself considered  Mr Ys complaint instead 
of forwarding it to Company L. In reply, Chadney Bulgin  said it always accepted Mr Y could 
complain about  it, but that he could also complain about Company L  it had made the error 
so it should be responsible for putting things right.
As both Mr Y and Chadney Bulgin  disagreed  with our investigator, this complaint came  to 
me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 15 June 2020, in which  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Before I explain my findings, Id firstly  like to say Im sorry to hear of Mr Ys health and 
financial difficulties. And I realise  this must  have been a very worrying and distressing time 
for him and his family.  
This decision wont consider the decline of Mr Ys claim or his policy being cancelled,  as this 
was the subject of a separate complaint  against  the insurer, though  I will need to refer to 
those things. Instead, this decision  will only consider  what happened  when Mr Ys policy was 
arranged. 
Its clear Mr Y talked to Chadney  Bulgin about his VSD and was given a decision in principle 
on that basis. But a decision  is principle is only an indication of whether the insurer  might 
provide cover and how much it might charge. So when he wanted to go ahead,  Mr Y was 
asked to complete  a full application form so that the insurer could fully assess his specific  
Ref: DRN35443593circumstances and the particular risks it was being asked to cover. That application form 
went to Company L for submission to the insurer. Ill return  to this.
On 30 December 2014 the insurer wrote  to Mr Y to confirm  that the application hed made  
was correct. It said As your adviser  filled in your application online,  weve  enclosed  a copy  
of your Application  record for you to check,  a Declaration for you to read and a Confirmation 
form that you should sign and date. It went on to say By checking and returning the 
Confirmation form you can make sure that:
 youve  given us full and accurate information
 the risk of protection  provided by the policy being lost or cancelled  in the event of a 
claim, due to incomplete and/or inaccurate  information is reduced.
The top of each page of the application  record said This is a copy  of your online  application  
showing the questions  weve  asked and the answers weve  been  given on your behalf.  You 
must check the answers carefully. If you need  to make any changes or give us more  
information, note it on the Confirmation form enclosed. The application included  no mention 
of Mr Ys condition. But Mr Y didnt correct  that. Instead the only change  he made to the 
application record was to add an alternative  telephone number. Mr Y signed the confirmation 
form - a little below where he signed, the confirmation form said By checking and returning 
this form you can make sure that you have  given us full and accurate information. This 
reduces the risk of a future claim not being paid due to incomplete and/or inaccurate  
information.
Mr Y says he simply signed and returned the confirmation pack, as Chadney  Bulgin told him 
it was the same information  provided for the decision in principle. Its clear both 
Chadney Bulgin and the insurer  were aware  of Mr Ys VSD at the decision in principle stage. 
But that was only the very beginning of the application process, and Mr Y had an ongoing 
responsibility to make  sure any questions  were correctly answered. Ive seen Mr Y didnt 
correct the application record when the insurer asked him to check  and confirm  it on 
30 December 2014, despite the insurer making clear the importance of this and the 
consequences of not doing  so.
I accept Mr Y was relying on Chadney  Bulgins advice, but ultimately it was Mr Y taking out a 
contract of insurance and it was Mr Ys personal  responsibility to check  that the answers in 
the final application form were correct. He signed  the confirmation to say hed checked the 
answers given in the application record on his behalf were  correct. But I dont think he took 
reasonable care to check the answers  were correct. Had he done  so, Ive seen that his 
insurer wouldnt have offered him CIC based on its underwriting criteria. So Mr Y wouldnt 
have been able to make a claim.
But I think Chadney Bulgin and Company L made errors here too. Company L already 
accepts it failed to include in the final application  the VSD information Chadney Bulgin gave 
it. Ive not seen theres any dispute  about  that. And based on the messages Ive seen, I think  
Chadney Bulgin itself made errors  and Ill explain why.
On 18 December 2014, Company L told Chadney Bulgin there  was discrepancy with Mr Ys 
date of birth. On 30 December 2014 Company L asked Chadney  Bulgin for information 
about Mr Ys occupation, as it was unanswered in the paper application. Later  that day, 
Company L told Chadney Bulgin Weve received acceptance terms from [the insurer] for the 
above client, which I have  attached  for your records, please check  these  for any changes  in 
premium or any exclusions.  This has been  accepted on standard terms. and asked when 
the policy should start. Chadney Bulgin replied only to ask Company L to start the policy.
Ref: DRN35443594From this I think  Chadney Bulgin was aware  thered already  been  discrepancies about  
Mr Ys date of birth and occupation, though these were resolved. And that the insurer had 
accepted Mr Ys application on standard  terms, when it knew the insurer  hadnt offered 
standard terms in the decision in principle. So I think it should have checked for any changes 
in premiums and exclusions, as Company  L asked it to. Had it done  so, I think  it would  have 
found further discrepancies that would  have led it to find the answers in the final application  
form werent all correct.  But Ive not seen that it did.
So Im satisfied Chadney  Bulgin and Company L made errors. And that Chadney  Bulgin is 
ultimately responsible  for them. I say that because Mr Y asked Chadney  Bulgin to arrange 
his policy, and it received  commission  from the insurer for that. And while Chadney Bulgin 
chose to outsource part of that task to Company L, Company L was acting on its behalf. So 
I think its fair to say that Chadney Bulgin is ultimately responsible for the errors in arranging  
Mr Ys policy.
In summary  then, I think Chadney Bulgin and Company  L made  errors  that Chadney  Bulgin 
is responsible for. But as Ive explained above, I dont think  Mr Y took reasonable care to 
check his final application form was correct. 
Ive considered what would be a fair and reasonable way to put things right in these 
particular circumstances.  The underwriting criteria provided by the insurer  shows it wouldnt 
have offered Mr Y CIC. And two large  insurers have told our service they wouldnt have 
offered Mr Y CIC either, and provided  their underwriting criteria  to support this. Based on 
this, I think its unlikely  Mr Y would have been  able to get a CIC policy elsewhere. So I dont 
think its likely Mr Y could have  made a successful  claim if he or Chadney Bulgin had 
disclosed his condition.  It follows  that I dont think Chadney Bulgin should pay Mr Ys claim, 
as hes asked it to do.
I acknowledge that this situation  would  have caused  Mr Y a great  deal of concern  and 
distress, and that this was at an already difficult time because of his health and financial 
difficulties. But I dont  think Chadney  Bulgin  is wholly responsible  for that distress  because,  
as Ive said, I dont  think  Mr Y took reasonable care to check  his final application form was 
correct. 
Given that, Im intending to say I dont think the £750 compensation our investigator 
suggested Chadney  Bulgin pay Mr Y is a fair reflection of these  particular circumstances. 
Instead, I intend to ask Chadney Bulgin to pay Mr Y £400 compensation, as I think that more  
fairly reflects the upset  caused by Chadney Bulgins mistakes but also recognises Mr Y 
didnt take reasonable care to check his final application  form was correct.
Both Mr Y and Chadney  Bulgin said they had nothing further to add in response to my 
provisional decision. So Ive gone  on to make my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Y and Chadney Bulgin havent  provided any further evidence  or comments  for me to 
consider, I see no reason  to change my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN35443595my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and also above, I uphold this complaint. 
Chadney Bulgin LLP should pay Mr Y a total of £400  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3544359