K820x#14complaint
Miss N has complained about a number of policies,  including critical illness cover,  that were 
sold to her by Countrywide Assured  Plc. She has said she was told she had to take the 
policies in order to get the mortgage she wanted.  She also has complained that the adviser 
from Countrywide didnt  give her the opportunity  to shop  around for other types  of policies.
background
In 2002 Miss N was buying her first house.  She met with a Countrywide adviser to discuss  a 
mortgage through the estate agent  where  she found the house she wanted. It was important 
to Miss N at that time that she buy that particular house for personal  family reasons.
At the time of the sale Miss N was in her early twenties and was working. She was single 
with no financial dependants.
She was offered a mortgage for just over £60,000  set up on a repayment basis  over twenty 
five years.
At the same time she took out:
Critical illness cover for the same  amount of the mortgage,  set up on a decreasing 
basis for the term of the mortgage (25 years).
Premium protection  benefit following a 13 week deferment period to protect the policy 
premiums if Miss N was unable to work due to serious illness of injury  for the term of 
the mortgage.
Critical illness cover on a level term basis  for forty one years for £16,000
Income protection policy  with a deferred  period  of 52 weeks  for a term of 41 years.
Premium protection  benefit for the income  protection policy  following  a 52 week 
deferment period  for a term of 41 years.
The investigator who assessed the complaint didnt feel it could be upheld.  She was of the 
view that there was nothing to support  Miss Ns claim  that she was told she had to take the 
policies in order to be granted the mortgage. She also felt the policies were  suitable for her 
given her circumstances at the time of the sale.
Miss N didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view the policies had been 
mis-sold. She felt it was irrelevant whether the policies were  suitable for her or not. She 
commented that because of the Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) mis selling in the media 
it was clear these policies were mis-sold too. She argued that while there was no proof of 
her claim there was no proof that Countrywide  had acted correctly  or not.
The investigator considered the points Miss N had raised but didnt feel persuaded to 
change her initial outcome. So because no agreement could be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld. 
Ref: DRN37730832I understand how strongly Miss N feels about her complaint. She had made  many  serious 
accusations against  Countrywide but its important for Miss N to bear in mind that I need to 
be completely objective  in making my decision on this complaint, so I wont  be commenting 
on those aspects of Miss Ns complaint.
Throughout the making of her complaint Miss N has mentioned PPI mis selling several times 
and feels the policies she was sold were the same as PPI polices.
This isnt the case. PPI policies provided  cover for the repayments of some  sort of borrowing 
the policy holder  had taken out. So in Miss Ns case,  a PPI policy would  provide  a regular 
payment that she would use if she had lost her job to keep up with her regular mortgage 
repayments. This would  normally last for a period of 6 months.
But, the policies  Miss N were sold were  very different  to this. The critical illness  policies 
provided a lump sum payment upon  diagnoses  of a critical illness  (as defined in the policys 
terms and conditions). The policy that protected the mortgage was for exactly  that - if Miss N 
fell seriously ill then she could claim on the policy and the lump sum payment made under 
that policy would be used to redeem the remainder of the mortgage in full, thereby allowing 
Miss N to not have  to worry about  meeting that payment in the event she was too ill to work. 
The same payment would  be made under the other critical  illness  policy set up on a level 
basis but this lump sum could be used for anything Miss N needed as it wasnt  in existence 
to protect  any liability. This lump  sum would  again be useful in a time when Miss N could be 
quite seriously ill.
The income protection policy  provided  a regular income payment  if Miss N were  to fall ill and 
not be able to work. And the premium benefit  policies  provided a way of keeping up  the 
premium payments for the policies  in the event  Miss N was unable  to work and bring in an 
income. This would  ensure the policies could be maintained if they werent being claimed on.
Therefore, its clear the policies that were  sold to Miss N were not PPI policies. So while  
there have  been  mis selling issues surrounding PPI policies this cant be applied to the 
policies currently in question. Critical illness, life protection and income  protection policies 
are valuable policies  that come  into fruition usually at very difficult times for policyholders so 
they cant be looked at with the same lens as PPI policies.
Now turning to the complaint points Miss N has raised. Her main complaint point is that she 
was told she had to take the policies in order to be granted the mortgage.
In respect of this point  I cant uphold the complaint. There is nothing to suggest Miss N was 
told this. I know Miss N feels  there  is no evidence on either side to prove this but because  of 
exactly this I cant uphold  this complaint  on this point alone. Because  I wasnt present at the 
sales meeting I cant say for certain  what was discussed  or how things were put to Miss N so 
I need to look at the evidence in front of me. And nothing in this information records that 
Miss N was told she had to take the policies as a condition of her mortgage. Also, I know  
that in 2002 it wasnt  so common for life protection cover to be part of residential lending  
criteria so I have no reason to think Countrywide would have given Miss N false  information 
about this. Its also important to note that Miss N wasnt sold life cover, she was just sold 
critical illness cover, income protection  and premium protection.  So if anything  would have 
been a condition of the lending it would have been  life cover. But as she wasnt sold this its 
hard for me to conclude  that she was told she had to take the policies to secure her 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN37730833I know Miss N has gone to some lengths to explain that the suitability of the policies are not 
in question, nor do they form part of her complaint. However, the suitability of the policies do 
form part of my decision making process and therefore must  form part of this decision.
Having looked  at everything Miss N was sold I cant say the critical illness policies  she was 
sold was unsuitable  for her. Critical illness cover is always useful to have and more than one 
policy can be in place  and be claimed on at the same time. Also, one of the critical illness  
policies provided  cover on a decreasing basis in line with the borrowing  she was taking out 
but the other  one provided  cover  on a level basis. And for a longer time so Miss N had some 
cover until she was around retirement  age. I think this this was a good idea for her and 
indeed anyone so in my view these specific policies were not mis-sold.
With regards to the income  protection policy Miss N did have some cover  through  her 
employer and this cover was fairly robust. It provided her with 26 weeks full pay and then 13 
weeks half pay. The income protection policy she was sold in 2002 had a deferment  period 
of 52 weeks and while normally  I would  say this was too long in this specific case, given the 
policy would come to fruition  just  after her cover through her employer ended, I cant  say 
she wouldnt  have made use of this policy either. So again I think  this was a suitable policy 
for her.
Furthermore, given the aim of the premium protection policies as outlined above I cant say 
these policies wouldnt have been beneficial for Miss N had she been in the unfortunate 
position of not being  able to work for any reason and therefore not being able to keep up 
payments into the useful  critical illness and income  protection policies.
Overall, the sale of these  policies took place a long time ago so only little information is 
available. But from what I have been  provided I cant find any evidence  that Miss N was told 
she had to take the policies to secure her mortgage. And as mentioned  above  I think this 
would have been unlikely because usually only life protection was a condition  of lending  
never usually critical illness or income protection policies. I also think given the aim of these  
policies and when  they would provide some sort of a payment I cant  say Miss N wouldnt 
have found them useful had the worst  happened  to her, health wise, in the future.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3773083