complaint
Mr F has complained about the advice he received from Portal Financial  Services LLP to 
transfer his retirement  annuity contract (RAC)  to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
says that he wasnt  made  aware that he couldve taken the full value of his fund as a lump 
sum and he believes  hes lost out on valuable  guarantees that were associated  with his RAC.
Mr F is being  assisted with his complaint by a third party but for ease of reading the decision
Ill refer to all representations as being  made  by Mr F.
Portal Financial Services LLP was previously known  as Portafina LLP and has been  referred  to 
as Portafina in my decision.  
background
I issued my provisional findings to this complaint on 2 February 2021. I said I was minded to 
uphold the complaint because Mr F wasnt an insistent client and he received unsuitable advice 
from Portafina to transfer his RAC  to a SIPP. A copy of my provisional decision is attached for 
reference. 
In summary  I reached this conclusion because I was satisfied that Mr F had a need for tax free 
cash. So I didnt  think it was unreasonable for him to have accessed his pension fund before 
the age of 60. But I didnt  think  it was reasonable for Portafina to have proceeded with Mr Fs 
transaction on an insistent  client basis. 
I also wasnt satisfied that Mr F had been correctly categorised as having a balance  attitude to 
risk. In any event, Portafina had to also consider Mr Fs capacity for loss and I didnt think Mr F 
couldve afforded to take a much of a risk with his fund. I thought he shouldve been more  
accurately described  as having a low attitude  to risk. Overall, as Mr F had a need  to take tax 
free cash, I thought Portafina ought  to have  recommended that he take his entire  fund with P 
as a lump sum under the new pension freedom regulations that had just come  into effect when 
Mr F received advice. 
As Mr F was relying on Portafina to guide him with his pension, I thought he wouldve listened 
and accepted this advice,  had Portafina explained  why it wasnt necessarily  suitable,  in his 
particular circumstances,  to leave his fund invested.  Had Mr F been advised to take the entire 
fund as a lump sum, he would then have been  able to seek advice about  alternative  methods 
for investing those  funds  outside of his pension, which didnt involve the high charges 
associated with a SIPP. In addition, had Portafina  provided suitable advice and advised Mr F to 
take his benefits directly  from P as a lump sum, under the new pension  freedom rules, Mr F 
wouldnt have then had to pay the additional adviser fee of 5% of his transfer value, around 
£650.
To put things right I said that Portafina  should carry out a calculation to determine whether Mr F 
had suffered a loss as a result of its unsuitable advice. 
Neither party provided any further submissions in response to my provisional  findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further submissions, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings. 
Ref: DRN3424920I therefore uphold  the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. I direct  
Portal Financial Services LLP to carry out a loss assessment in line with the methodology set 
out in my attached provisional findings.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services  LLP should  carry out a loss 
assessment in line with the methodology set out in my attached provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3424920Provisional decision dated 2 February  2021
complaint
Mr F has complained about the advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer his 
retirement annuity contract  (RAC) to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). He says that he 
wasnt made aware that he couldve taken the full value of his fund as a lump  sum and he 
believes hes lost out on valuable guarantees that were associated with his RAC.
Mr F is being  assisted with his complaint by a third party but for ease of reading the decision 
Ill refer to all representations as being  made  by Mr F.
background
Mr F received advice from Portafina  in 2015.  At the time he held an RAC with a provider Ill 
refer to as P. The RAC was invested  in a with-profits fund and had a guaranteed annuity  rate 
(GAR) attached to it. The GAR could be taken from age 60.
The Fact Find document was completed during a telephone call with Mr F on 22 April 2015. 
It recorded that:
Mr F was 57 years  old, single with no dependents;
he was unemployed,  having suffered a back injury some  years ago;
he was receiving £190 per month as part of his Employment Support Allowance;
his state pension age was 66;
the RAC  had a fund value of £12,779 and a transfer value of £12,963;
other than the RAC, Mr F had no other pension provision;
he wanted to take his full tax-free  cash allowance  to cover day to day bills and to pay 
for a holiday,  having recently suffered a bereavement; and
he had no need for income.
A risk profiling  questionnaire was also completed, which assessed Mr F as having a balanced  
attitude to risk.
During the fact finding call it was explained  to Mr F that he had a GAR on his plan and that 
he could take £3,240  as a tax free lump sum. When asked if he wanted to take the tax free 
cash, Mr F said that he would as hed recently lost his mum and funds were  a bit thin. He 
also explained that the council were doing  some  work to his home  but he may need to 
redecorate so the extra funds would come  in handy. The Portafina  representative  also asked 
whether Mr F would treat himself to a holiday or buy himself anything  nice to which Mr F 
replied that he would. Mr F also confirmed that he had no need  for income at that time. The 
representative explained that Portafina  would be writing out to Mr F with a recommendation 
of what he could do with his pension.
A couple of weeks later,  on 7 May 2015, Portafina  issued its suitability report. Under the 
summary section of the report  it said I have now fully reviewed your current pension  
arrangements and have recommended that you leave your pension  policy  where they 
currently are [sic]. However, as you have confirmed  that you wish to proceed and have 
confirmed understanding of the benefits that will be lost, you will be treated as an Insistent 
client. Accordingly, whilst I have not recommended transferring your pension, in this report  
you will find my provider recommendations based on the current  market, your stated 
objectives, your current situation  and your attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN3424920The report  recorded  that Mr Fs objective was to take his tax free cash to pay day to day 
bills and go on holiday.  It said that Mr F didnt  want to borrow the funds and he didnt have 
the disposable funds or a property to re-mortgage.  So there were no other  ways  to raise to 
raise the capital.
The report  also provided an explanation of the options that had been  considered  during 
the pension review and whether they were suitable for Mr F. In summary the report said:
1. Flexi-access Drawdown You are taking Flexi-access Drawdown because this will 
release your full Tax Free Cash and leave the residual amount invested,  as you have 
no requirement for an income at this time.
2.Pension SwitchYou are not taking a Pension Switch as you wish to have access to 
the Tax Free Cash available to you.
3.Stakeholder PensionYou are not taking a Stakeholder Pension because  you 
wish to have access to the Tax Free Cash available to you, with no income being 
withdrawn.
4.Trivial CommutationYou are not taking Triviality as you are not entitled to take it.
5.Fixed  Term AnnuitiesYou are not taking a Fixed Term Annuity as you wish to have 
access to the full Tax Free Cash amount available to you and do not wish to take an 
income.
6.AnnuitiesYou are not taking an annuity as you do not wish to sell your pension in 
exchange for a guaranteed income  and would  instead prefer  to receive direct payment 
from your pension scheme.
7.Scheme PensionYou are not taking a Scheme Pension because  you wish to 
have access to your retirement benefits now rather than waiting until your schemes  
Normal Retirement Age.
The report  went on to set out Portafinas recommendation. It said that you have decided  
that you still wish to proceed with Income Drawdown despite us advising you not to. We 
will assist  you with this, and have  treated  you as an Insistent  Client.
The recommendation was to transfer the RAC  to a SIPP and invest  in the following funds:
Dimensional Global  Short Dated Bond Fund* 25%
Dimensional Multi Factor  Equity Fund* 60%
Henderson UK Property Unit Trust* 7%
Premier Pan European  Property* 3%
Cash on Deposit 5%
A couple of weeks after the suitability report was sent to Mr F, Portafina called him to 
discuss whether he wished to proceed. Mr F confirmed he had read the report and 
raised some queries,  but said the transfer was to proceed.
Mr F signed an insistent client declaration and the application for the SIPP  on 22 May 
2015. By the time his RAC was transferred to the SIPP the transfer  value had increased to
£13,056. Mr F received  tax free cash of £3,219.07. After  fees,  £9,013.12 was left to invest  
in line with the recommendation in the suitability report.
Ref: DRN3424920In 2016 and 2017 Portafina reviewed Mr Fs SIPP and recommended changes  to 
his investments.
In March 2018 Mr F complained to Portafina  that hed been  given  unsuitable advice 
to transfer his pension. In summary he complained that:
Portafina had failed to establish  his true attitude to risk and his SIPP had 
been invested in funds that were too high risk for him.
He was in poor health and had been vulnerable  at the time of advice.
Portafina had failed to advise him that he could cash in his RAC in its entirety.
He had no recollection of receiving  the suitability letter.
By transferring Mr F had lost all guarantees associated with the with profits fund 
his RAC  was invested in.
Portafina reviewed  the complaint but it didnt think it was at fault. It said that:
Mr Fs SIPP had been  invested  in line with his balanced attitude to risk.
It had taken Mr Fs situation into account and provided a facility that enabled 
him to meet his objectives.
In the suitability report,  it had made  Mr F fully aware of the GAR that he would 
be losing  by moving his plan. And Mr F had received this report.
Mr F had explained to the representative that he wanted  to preserve his plan 
so it was illogical to discuss  the full encashment of the RAC.
Mr F didnt  accept Portafinas explanation so the matter was referred to our service for 
review. One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt  think Portafina had done  
anything wrong. In summary  the investigator  thought:
It was necessary  for Mr F to review his plan because no bonuses  had been 
added since 2001.
Portafina  had correctly established  Mr Fs attitude to risk as balanced. And Mr 
Fs SIPP hadnt  been overwhelmingly invested  in a higher risk fund.
Mr F understood that he was losing  valuable benefits.
Although  Mr F was eligible to cash in his RAC in its entirety, its clear he wanted 
to keep it invested so cashing it in wouldnt  have been appropriate.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators findings  so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Was Mr F an insistent  client  or was it reasonable to treat him as one?
Mr Fs existing plan had a GAR attached  to it so Portfina said it wasnt recommending that 
Mr F transfer  his plan as hed be giving up a valuable benefit.  But it said that Mr F wanted 
to proceed despite  being  aware of the benefits hed be losing and that he was acting 
against its advice.  So, Portafina dealt with Mr F as an insistent  client.
Ref: DRN3424920Firms are allowed  to transact business on an insistent client basis. However, before doing 
so they need to ensure  they give suitable  advice.  And having carefully considered the 
insistent client process  Portafina  followed in this case, Im not satisfied that it gave Mr F 
suitable advice.  And I dont think Mr F can accurately be described as an insistent client.
At the time of advice, the regulators handbook (which contains the COBS rules firms 
must follow) didnt refer specifically to insistent clients. However, COBS 2.1.1R required a 
firm to act honestly, fairly  and professionally in accordance with the best interests  of its 
client.
The regulator also issued  a factsheet to advisers in 2015 to provide a helpful reminder  
of the regulators  position on advising insistent clients. This followed a thematic review it 
had conducted  on advice for insistent clients in 2014. The key steps to take in the 
regulators view were:
1.To provide suitable advice for the individual client  and this advice  must  be 
clear to the client.
2.To be clear with the client  about the risks of their chosen course of action.
3.It should be clear to the client that their actions  are against the advisers advice.
And, as far back as 1994,  a former  regulator (FIMBRA) published guidance  (about 
pension transfers  and opt outs) which included the following: The investors  decision to 
override the advisers  recommendation  should  also be credibly  evidenced. Disclaimer 
forms and pre- printed  letters using stock  phrases should  not be used since they cast 
doubt upon the genuineness of the process.  A note from the customer in his own words is 
best.
Ref: DRN3424920K821x#15Portafina spoke  to Mr F in April 2015  and obtained  information on his circumstances  and 
objectives. Not long after this call, it issued  its suitability  report  to Mr F. I appreciate  that Mr 
F initially  complained that this wasnt received but given that he discussed this report with 
the advisers from Portafina  a few weeks after it was issued, Im satisfied  he did receive it.
Ive considered the suitability report carefully. The opening summary states that I have 
now fully reviewed your current pension arrangements  and have  recommended  that you 
leave your pension  policy where they currently are [sic]. However, as you have confirmed 
that you wish to proceed and have confirmed  understanding of the benefits  that will be 
lost, you will be treated  as an Insistent client. Accordingly, whilst I have not recommended  
transferring your pension,  in this report you will find my provider recommendations based 
on the current market,  your stated objectives,  your current situation  and your attitude to 
risk.
Ive not seen any evidence that suggests that Mr F said to Portafina, prior to the suitability 
report being issued,  that he understood the valuable benefits that hed be giving up, or that 
it had been specifically explained to him that he would  be going against  Portafinas advice 
by proceeding  with the transfer, or that he was adamant he wanted to proceed. This wasnt  
discussed during  the fact-finding call in April 2015.  And Ive not been  made  aware of any 
other calls taking place  prior to the suitability report being issued.
Even if it had been discussed before the report was issued, Portafina shouldve clearly  set 
out the advice it considered suitable. Instead,  as well as explaining that it wasnt  
recommending the transfer, the report also set Portafinas recommendation for what  Mr F 
could do to meet his objectives. And during  the call that followed the suitability report being 
issued, where the report was discussed,  no mention was made to the fact that Mr F was 
going against Portafinas advice by transferring his plan to a SIPP. In fact it appears  from 
what Mr F said in the call that Portafina  had clearly marked out the sections Mr F had to 
complete if he wished to go ahead with the transfer.  And given the questions Mr F asked 
during this call, it appears he didnt fully understand what would actually happen to his fund 
if he transferred it. For example, after clarifying that his tax free cash would be paid into his 
bank account,  he asked what would happen  to the rest of his money.  To me this suggests 
that he was be guided by Portafina and that he didnt fully understand what  he was 
agreeing to. I think an adviser  acting honestly, fairly and professionally  and in the best 
interests of their client ought to have questioned Mr Fs reasons for proceeding.
Im also conscious that although Mr F signed a declaration confirming he wished to 
proceed, theres no evidence from him, in the form of his own words, to justify  him being 
treated as an insistent  client.  And the process  followed doesnt appear to be reflective of a 
genuine insistent  client process; it seems  to be a predetermined approach. So I dont  think  
it was reasonable  for Portafina to have proceeded on an insistent client basis.
Did Mr F have a need for tax free cash?
I appreciate retirement  planning may have  regard for an individuals  general preferences  
but its primary focus should  be a consumers personal circumstances with a view to putting 
them in the best possible position  at retirement. It wasnt  Portafinas  role to simply carry out 
Mr Fs wishes. To meet the regulators requirement  to know your customer, Portafina  had 
to collect information  regarding Mr Fs specific objectives. And it needed to determine which  
of these were pressing  and which ones were nice to haves.
Ref: DRN34249208In Mr Fs case, he explained to the representative  during the fact finding call that money 
was thin. The council  were completing work on his house and while he wasnt  paying for 
this, some redecorating would likely be required that hed need to pay for. He also said he 
wanted a holiday. I think it could be argued that these objectives were nice to haves as 
opposed to essential. But Portafina failed to discuss this with Mr F. Nor did it investigate 
how much  money he actually required to cover  these  costs. I think it needed to do this in 
order to fully assess Mr Fs needs,  particularly as this was his only pension  provision, other 
than his state pension. And it may well have been  the case  that Mr Fs existing savings of 
£1,000 might have  been sufficient for his essential needs at that time.
However, even though  I dont think Mr F had an immediate need  to access  the funds, it 
does seem likely that he wouldve required access to this money quite soon  after the advice 
and certainly before  reaching his stated  retirement age.
Mr F didnt  have any disposable income, he wasnt  working and was living on state benefits 
so it seems unlikely that he wouldve been able to raise further  funds after hed used his 
savings. And I note that within  a year of the SIPP being established, Mr F withdrew  further 
funds. So, although  I think the advice to access his tax free cash  was somewhat premature,  
I think its likely that Mr F wouldve required access to it not long after he received  advice.
Mr Fs existing plan with P had a GAR attached  to it which applied from age 60 onwards. 
This was set at the outset of the plan and guaranteed the rate at which  the pension fund 
would be converted  to an annuity. In the past these  rates werent necessarily considered  
generous but more  recently as general annuity  rates have fallen, GARs have proven to 
be very valuable. However, thats  only the case if the pension fund is taken as an 
annuity.
Ive thought about whether Mr F shouldve  been  advised to wait until his 60th birthday 
before accessing  his pension, at which point he couldve  benefited from the GAR. Ive 
considered the information P provided to Portafina  at the time of the sale. This showed that 
at the age of 60 the projected annuity that wouldve been available from Mr Fs fund was 
between £801  and £858 per year, after taking tax free cash. So, I think  it could be argued 
that given the modest annuity  he wouldve received, Mr F would likely benefit  from taking 
the remaining  fund as a lump sum or having  the option to draw funds as and when he 
needed them, rather than taking the annuity.  And I note that Mr F has said that hed have 
taken the fund as a lump sum if hed been told he could do this. So, it seems  unlikely  that 
he wouldve opted  to take an annuity  when he reached 60 in any case.  And so the fact that 
his plan had a GAR attached, wouldnt have been  valuable in his particular circumstances.
Ive also thought about the fact that the plan with P was invested in a with profits  fund. In 
2015 P confirmed  that no bonuses had been added to the plan since 2001. And the 
expected growth  over the next few years was minimal when compared  against the 
transfer value  Mr F was being  offered  at that time.
So given the above, as Mr F had a need for tax free cash, it doesnt seem unreasonable  
for him to have accessed  his fund before the age of 60.
Was the advice  suitable?
It wasnt possible for Mr F to take the tax free cash out of his current  plan and leave the 
remaining funds where they were  with P. So Portafina explained in the suitability report  
most of the options Mr F had and whether  they were suitable for him.
Ref: DRN34249209Portafina ruled out Mr F switching his existing plan to another personal pension  or a 
stakeholder plan as he wouldnt have been  able to access the tax free cash  by doing 
either of these. And I agree that these wouldnt have  been  suitable options for Mr F.
As Mr F had confirmed that he didnt require an income at that time, Portafina also ruled  out 
any form of annuity.  Given Mr Fs particular circumstances, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Portafina to reach this conclusion. I say this because after taking tax free 
cash Mr F was left with only £9,013.12. The annuity  that this amount couldve purchased,  
whether on the open market or by using his GAR, would be minimal.  And as Ive explained 
above, I think having access to further  funds as and when he required them was likely to 
benefit Mr F more than any minimal annuity payment he wouldve  received.
Portafina also discounted Mr F taking benefits from his existing plan. It said that this 
wasnt an option for Mr F because he couldnt wait until retirement to access funds.
After discounting  the other options, Portafina recommended  that Mr F moved his plan with 
P to a flexi access drawdown plan and take his tax free cash. Portafina said that a SIPP 
would meet Mr Fs objectives for this as it allowed him to access his tax free cash  and keep 
the remaining  funds  invested. Mr F would then be able to access  these funds as an when 
he needed to.
Although I acknowledge that Mr F had a need to access his tax free cash, and that he may 
have said he wanted to keep his remaining fund invested, I dont think  the switch  to the 
SIPP itself was suitable. A SIPP  was expensive and unnecessary for an inexperienced 
investor with a very modest pension such  as Mr F. And a SIPP was not the best option for 
him.
SIPPs are generally considered suitable for experienced investors who want to have 
access to a greater  range of investments, and who are comfortable  making  their own 
investment decisions.  That wasnt the case with Mr F. And as the charges with a SIPP tend 
to be quite high,  the impact  these can have on a small fund, such  as Mr Fs, can be 
considerable. And if the investments in the SIPP dont perform well, then this can very 
quickly start to diminish the overall value of the SIPP. So they arent considered  suitable  for 
low risk investors as the returns  that would likely be achieved in low risk funds, might  not 
be enough to outweigh the impact  of charges.
In the case of Mr F, his SIPP had a set up charge of £180, an annual management charge 
of 0.5%  of the fund value, and an annual  drawdown fee of £75. In addition,  the individual 
funds within  the SIPP had their own charges. Portafina advised Mr F to invest in four 
different funds and it seems that each of these had a charge of between 0.3% and 0.5%.  
Mr F was also paying an additional 1% of his fund value per annum to Portafina for it to 
complete an annual review. This was on top of the fees he paid to Portafina when the SIPP  
was established.
Portafina categorised  Mr F as having a balance  attitude to risk. This was based on Mr Fs 
answers to the risk profiling questionnaire  discussed with him during  the fact finding call. 
While I think these profiling questionnaires  can be a useful tool for gaining  information 
about an individuals attitude, in the case of Mr F, Im conscious that during the call when 
this questionnaire was completed,  he had to clarify  several times what  he was being 
asked. And many of his answers were  contradictory. For example, Mr F strongly agreed 
Ref: DRN342492010that he would be described as a cautious person and that it takes  him a long time to make  
up his mind on financial matters. He disagreed that he was comfortable investing in the 
stock market, that he found investment  matters  easy to understand  and that he associates 
risk with the idea of opportunity. These answers dont seem to be consistent  with someone 
that wants to take a risk. By stark  contrast  Mr F agreed that hed be willing to take 
substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns and that hed rather  take his chances  
with high risk investment  than increase his savings.
Even if I was satisfied that Mr F was correctly categorised  as having a balance  attitude to 
risk, which Im not, Portafina had to also consider his capacity for loss. This was Mr Fs 
only pension. He had minimal savings and no income other than state benefits. So I dont 
think he couldve afforded to take a much of a risk with his fund.  And I think  he shouldve  
been more accurately described as having  a low attitude to risk.
Part of Mr Fs complaint  is that he was invested in funds that were too high risk. And while  I 
acknowledge that one of the funds was higher risk, when you consider the overall portfolio, 
I think it was suitable  for a balanced  investor. However, as Ive said above, Im not satisfied 
Mr F was balanced. I think he shouldve been  more  accurately described as low risk. So I 
agree that the overall portfolio was too high risk for him.
What would have  been suitable  advice?
Mr F has complained that he wasnt told he could  take his entire fund as a lump sum. 
Portafina acknowledges that it didnt let Mr F know about this option. It said in its final 
response that it didnt  do this because Mr F wanted to leave his fund invested.  However,  
while Portafina needed to consider Mr Fs objectives, it had a duty to provide suitable 
advice.
Ive explained  above why Mr Fs modest fund size, attitude to risk and capacity for loss 
meant that the SIPP was unsuitable. So I think Portafina ought to have discussed why 
leaving the fund invested, and subjecting  it to risk Mr F couldnt afford to take, wasnt  a 
suitable option for him. It didnt  do this and so I think it failed in its duty to ensure Mr F was 
in an informed position before deciding to transfer  his plan with P.
Overall, as Mr F had a need  to take tax free cash,  I think Portafina ought to have 
recommended that he take his entire fund with P as a lump sum under the new pension 
freedom regulations that had just come into effect when Mr F received advice. Mr F was 
relying on Portafina to guide him with his pension. So I think  he wouldve listened and 
accepted this advice, had Portafina explained why it wasnt necessarily suitable, in his 
particular circumstances,  to leave his fund invested.  Had Mr F been advised to take the 
entire fund as a lump  sum, he would then have been  able to seek  advice about 
alternative methods  for investing those funds outside of his pension, which  didnt involve 
the high charges associated with a SIPP.
Im also conscious that Portafina was offering Mr F a free pension  review. So had it 
provided suitable advice and advised  him to take his benefits directly  from P as a lump sum, 
under the new pension  freedom rules, Mr F wouldnt have then had to pay the additional 
adviser fee of 5% of his transfer value, around  £650.
In summary,  for the above reasons,  Im minded to conclude that Mr F wasnt an insistent 
client and that he received  unsuitable  advice from Portafina to transfer his RAC to a 
SIPP.
Ref: DRN342492011Putting things right
It doesnt automatically follow that Mr F has suffered a loss because  of the unsuitable 
advice. I can see that when his SIPP was reviewed  in 2016 it had grown by 7.8%. And 
the 2017 review  showed growth  of 12.99%. That being said,  it doesnt  make the 
unsuitable advice  suitable, nor does  it mean  that Mr F hasnt suffered a loss since his 
plan was last reviewed.  So Ive set out below the calculation Portafina needs to complete 
in order to assess whether Mr F has been disadvantaged by its unsuitable advice.
I think its also worth explaining at this point that I havent asked Portafina to make  a 
payment to cover ongoing SIPP fees because  Ive been advised that the investments within  
the SIPP are liquid and so can be sold. This means that its for Mr F to decide whether he 
wishes to withdraw his remaining funds and close the SIPP or leave it as it is. I would 
suggest Mr F seeks financial advice on this matter.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would 
probably now be in if hed been given  suitable advice.
As Ive said above,  if suitable advice had been  given,  I think  Mr F wouldve  likely  taken his 
plan with P as a lump sum and invested it, outside of his pension. Its not possible to say 
precisely how he would have invested it, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr F fairly, Portafina  must:
A Calculate the value of the lump sum Mr F would have received from P, after the 
deduction of his tax free cash  and any further  withdrawals made from the SIPP 
(this is sum A).
B I cant  say for sure what Mr F would have done with this lump  sum but I think its 
reasonable to calculate the return  he would have  received on this lump sum 
between the date of transfer  and date of my decision, using the benchmark rate 
represented by 50 per cent FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total  Return Index 
and 50 per cent average rate from fixed  rate bonds (This is sum B)
I have chosen  this combination of benchmarks because Mr F was a low risk 
investor and the above would reasonably put him in that position. It doesnt  mean  
Mr F wouldve invested 50 per cent of his money in a fixed  rate bond and 50 per 
cent in some kind of index  tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he couldve obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
C Compare the value  of Mr Fs SIPP with the total of sum A + B. If the SIPP  value is 
less than the value  of A + B, there  is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the 
SIPP value  is greater than the sum of A + B, no compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from date of decision to 
date of settlement  (if compensation is not paid within  28 days  of it being notified of 
acceptance).
Ref: DRN342492012If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr F's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Im aware  that Mr F isnt working and is currently  
receiving state benefits. His SIPP is his only pension other than the state pension so it may 
well be the case that he will be a non tax payer  in retirement.
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. But if, as I think  is likely, Mr F is a 
non- tax payer, no deduction will be necessary.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.  If Portafina deducts income  tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr F 
a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue &
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional  decision is that Portfina LLP should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3424920