K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  wrongly sold 
them two life insurance policies in 2001 when taking out a new mortgage,  something they 
only became aware of recently when one policy expired but the other continued. They  say 
they already had sufficient cover in place  via workplace cover  and other  policies and neither 
of these policies  were needed.
background
L & G recommended  a £60,000  Level  Term Assurance policy for a term of 17 years  with 
critical illness cover (allegedly for general  family protection) and a £56,250 Decreasing Term 
Assurance policy for a term of 21 years also with critical illness cover.
L & G twice rejected their complaint, saying it was satisfied  both recommendations were  
suitable. It then partially upheld  their complaint. It accepted Mr and Mrs Ms word  that the 
whole mortgage  had been on a repayment  basis, even though theyd not provided evidence  
of this, and agreed  to compensate them on the basis that it should have recommended a 
single decreasing term policy matching the overall  size and term of their mortgage. It offered 
to refund the differential cost between  the premiums  they had paid on the two policies and 
the cost of a single decreasing term policy. It also offered  £500  in lieu of the trouble and 
upset this issue, and how it handled it, had caused.
An investigator at this service felt L & Gs offer had not been fair and said the complaint  
should be upheld.
After some exchanges about  the precise figures, she acknowledged  that Mr and Mrs M 
already had two £30,000  endowment policies, Mrs M had a £100,000 life cover policy and 
Mr M had £50,000 policy  plus workplace cover through his employer (which included  more 
than £90,000  of life cover).
She felt it was reasonable for L & G to, in effect,  ignore Mr Ms workplace cover as this could 
never be guaranteed for the lifetime of the mortgage. She also felt that they had chosen to 
take out the two individual standalone policies to provide important  family  protection  and it 
was reasonable  to recommend additional  bespoke mortgage cover. But she felt the advisor 
should have taken account  of their endowment policies  which she said were sufficient to 
protect the interest-only  part of their mortgage for its 17 year term.
She noted a letter written  by Mr and Mrs M in 2019 confirming they hadnt wanted the 
endowment policies to be taken into account as they saw these  as savings mechanisms, but 
looking at the evidence overall  she didnt  believe the additional level term policy  had been an 
appropriate recommendation. She said L & G should refer all the premiums on the £60,000  
policy.
L & G disagreed,  noting that Mr and Mrs M had said, in an email  in 2019, that they had not 
wanted to consider their endowment policies, saying:
"We were looking for cover for the total amount of the repayment mortgage. We knew that 
the endowment  policies  were not producing the results originally hoped for. Hence we 
ensured that the new mortgage was a repayment  one. We had two endowment  policies but 
these were not to be taken into consideration in securing cover for the new mortgage  or for 
Ref: DRN38567742life cover these were being used solely as saving mechanisms with the option of setting  or 
cashing in early if we found them too much  to pay on top of the mortgage".
It also said it had seen  no evidence that Mr and Mrs Ms entre mortgage was on a 
repayment basis and still believed cover for the interest-only element was justified given they 
did not want to use their existing endowments to protect this. It also said that the critical 
illness cover  would have  been of significant  benefit. 
Overall, it was satisfied that there had been adequate discussion of Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances and objectives, something  which took place  over two meetings.
Mr and Mrs M also disagreed, saying:
The entire mortgage was on a repayment basis and this was one of a number of key 
errors made by the advisor  along with failing to record their income, outgoings etc.
If fully informed and given appropriate advice  about the cost of cover  they may well 
have looked elsewhere,  particularly as theyve been advised that the single  policy L & 
G used by way of comparison was extremely expensive (meaning the loss 
calculation was not fair) 
Mr Ms workplace  cover provided three times  his annual  salary (around £92,000) 
which, along with a widows pension, was more  than sufficient to cover  the total 
mortgage
The advisor approached them and scared  them into taking  out these policies saying 
their children  would  be bereft  if they died; this is why they agreed  to her advice
The investigator still felt her redress was reasonable considering the evidence overall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I share Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about  the accuracy of the advisors record  and 
about the limited  information contained  within it. The fact that the advisor filled out two 
separate reports strongly suggests that one recommendation, the £56,250, was for 
mortgage protection, while  the other was for general  family  protection. This seems  the most  
likely explanation for the way the advisor described  these recommendations. That said,  I am 
not surprised that Mr and Mrs M were  not aware of this and assumed these were for each of 
them to cover the mortgage.
There is no evidence to indicate that Mr and Mrs M wanted additional family protection  and, 
on this basis, I share  the investigators view that the level term policy recommendation was 
not appropriate. I am also satisfied, on the balance of probabilities that Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage was solely a repayment one, based on their evidence and the information from 
several years later. So the level term recommendation  was flawed and there  was no need 
for two policies.
I recognise that L & G has sought to justify this recommendation  by pointing to the overall 
mortgage, even  though  it admits a single policy would have been better, but I am not 
persuaded that the advisor made  clear  she was recommending  cover for their entire  
mortgage, let alone  that this was necessarily  an appropriate  recommendation. 
Ref: DRN38567743L & G has provided no evidence to indicate the advisor provided  Mr and Mrs M with a 
suitability or recommendations letter or other paperwork  laying  out the thinking behind  her 
recommendations. Given this, and Mr and Mrs Ms clear misunderstanding about  the nature 
of the policies and their purpose,  I am not convinced they were in a full informed position to 
decide whether  to go ahead with the recommendations. Crucially, I dont believe they were 
given sufficient information including possible options to decide what, if any, additional cover 
they wanted/needed.
In this context, while  I have considered Mrs Ms comments in 2019 I do not think these 
clearly demonstrate they did not want any of their existing  cover to be taken into account in 
2001. I think Mrs M may well have been  stressing  why they had moved from an interest-only 
to a repayment mortgage i.e. because  they didnt  feel they could rely on endowment policies 
delivering.
Overall, I think it was important for the advisor  to have clearly and fairly spelt  out the full 
extent of their existing cover (which  she did not do), what potential need  for additional cover 
she recommended  and why, and how the two recommendations allegedly  met this need. As 
none of this occurred, I reiterate  that I do not believe  Mr and Mrs M were in a fully informed 
position to decide whether to go ahead with either  of the recommendations.
The issue  I have therefore grappled  with is what would  have  been  a reasonable 
recommendation/s and what  Mr and Mrs M would  have decided  to do. Given the limited 
evidence from the time,  I simply  cannot  be sure. In my view, it is possible they would have 
taken out a policy for the entire mortgage,  no additional cover at all or some limited 
additional cover.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs M were  approached  by the advisor, rather  than proactively 
seeking advice,  and feel they were  put under undue pressure to take out these  plans  as 
Mrs M has said . But they were under no obligation  to take out new life cover  and did agree 
to pay for bespoke mortgage  protection. Its also fair to assume they were broadly aware of 
their existing life cover  and still felt that a specific additional policy  to protect their new 
mortgage would be useful. So, I dont think it would be fair to conclude  that they probably  
would not have taken out any additional  cover.
But they did have  a substantial amount of cover  - £130,000 in Mrs Ms case and £80,000 to 
£170,000 in Mr Ms case, depending on whether one takes account of his workplace cover. 
While this service  does  not generally  consider  such workplace cover  when  assessing  what  
was a reasonable recommendation  for bespoke mortgage cover,  it is relevant when 
assessing how much  existing insurance  cover a customer might  have considered  they 
already had  and how much they would  have felt they needed on top of this.
So, while it is impossible to know what Mr and Mrs M would have done, if fully and fairly 
advised, I believe the investigators  proposed redress  is about  right.  This assumes that Mr 
and Mrs M would have chosen  to take out a decreasing term policy for £56,250 (just under 
half of the new mortgage),  knowing  that this meant they would be relying on some  of their 
existing cover to pay off the remaining mortgage  in the event of one of  them dying.
Given Mr and Mrs M had submitted significant  additional evidence  since the investigators 
view, including  updated detailed of their existing cover, I asked if they had further  comments  
to make.
Mrs M said:
Ref: DRN38567744When she originally contacted L % G the advisor  said that if there  had been  any mis-
selling it would refund  all the premiums;  L & G subsequently admitted numerous 
errors by the original  advisor whose recommendations appeared to be driven  solely 
by commission
L & G took an inordinately long time to deal with their complaint  with unexplained 
delays and contradictory responses
While  it eventually offered £500 in lieu of its various mistakes, she feels  this sum 
should be higher given  the length of time its taken to get to this stage largely, due to 
L & G
Having considered these additional comments, I still feel my proposed compensation is 
about right.  I accept  that this whole  issue has not been handled well by L & G including  the 
amount of time it took for it to make  any offer for what was clearly  unsuitable  
recommendations. But I am satisfied its offer of £500 is at least in line with what  this service 
might have recommended if it had not done  so. I dont feel this figure should be increased.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited to refund 
the premiums Mr and Mrs M paid on their £60,000  level term policy and add 8% simple 
interest to each payment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement of this complaint.
It must also pay the £500 previously offered if this has not yet been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3856774