K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about poor service received from China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd 
during its handling of his home  insurance  claim for damage caused by a fire. He also 
complains that payments  associated with his buildings  claim were  reduced because it said 
he was underinsured.  
background
Mr B took out home insurance with China Taiping in December 2017. On 25 July 2018  there  
was a fire in the early hours of the morning on the decking adjoining  his house. The patio  
doors shattered, the deck  area was destroyed and there was damage caused to the living 
room and hallway  and some of Mr Bs contents. Mr B made  a claim to China Taiping and it 
appointed a loss adjuster who visited the following day to assess the damage and validate 
the claim.  During  the visit the loss adjuster told Mr B he was adequately insured. 
The loss adjuster arranged for a restoration company to attend to install an air scrubber  
machine to reduce the odour and remove  damaged contents. On 1 August China Taiping 
told the loss adjuster to proceed  with the claim subject to any underinsurance. The loss 
adjuster asked Mr B to obtain quotes  from contractors  to restore the damaged property and 
to provide it with a list of his damaged contents. Mr B provided China Taiping with the list of 
contents on 13 August  and quotes  from his contractors on 16 August. 
The loss adjuster thought  the contractors quotes  were too high so told Mr B it would get its 
own contractor to quote. That contractor visited the property  to prepare a quote on 24 
August. Before the end of August Mr B had told the loss adjuster he was unhappy with the 
delays, the fact the house wasnt secure and that it was his sons  21st birthday but they were  
unable to celebrate at home. The loss adjuster said it was waiting for the results of the 
asbestos tests itd had done and for the quote from its contractor. 
In early September, Mr B chased the loss adjuster daily about the progress of the contents 
part of his claim. On 6 September  the loss adjuster received its contractors quote for the 
buildings work. As the quote wasnt competitive alongside the ones Mr B himself had 
obtained, the loss adjuster told him on 10 September that he could proceed  with the 
cheapest of his own quotes. Mr B continued  to chase his contents  claim settlement into the 
middle of September. 
On 13 September  the loss adjuster told Mr B that his property was underinsured and that a 
12% reduction would  be made against  the costs associated with the buildings aspect of the 
claim. On 17 September 2018 Mr B complained to China Taiping  and to this service  about  
the delays he was experiencing, the fact he had been told he was underinsured and the lack 
of progress with his contents  claim. 
Mr B asked the loss adjuster to pay the garden  contractor  directly and to pay his building 
contractors invoice. When  the garden  contractor  wasnt paid, Mr B paid it himself  and asked 
China Taiping to reimburse him. Mr B continued to chase his contents  claim through  to the 
end of September and on 1 October the loss adjuster  told Mr B that it was validating his 
contents claim.
Mr B said he thought the fireplace in the living room had been damaged (and its safety  
compromised) by the seat of the fire that was located on the other  side of the wall. The loss 
adjuster said itd needed proof of purchase for the fireplace. On 8 October  2018,  China 
Ref: DRN33794042Taiping asked Mr B to re-send his contractors invoice for the decking and on the same day it 
agreed to an interim  settlement of 50% of the value of the contents  claim.
A few days  later Mr B told the loss adjuster that he was unhappy  with the settlement offered  
for his television as he had a new for old policy so he wanted  what hed paid for it, namely 
£1,188. Agreement was reached  shortly after that Mr B would accept £950 for the television 
and an increased  amount  too for his damaged footstool. A few items  remained in dispute as 
Mr B was unable to provide receipts/proof  of purchase,  but the contents claim settlement 
was finally  agreed  by the end of October. 
 
At the end of October  Mr B chased the loss adjuster about the fireplace and it agreed it 
would arrange  to have it cleaned and if that wasnt possible, to get a second opinion. The 
restoration company  confirmed that it could clean the fireplace,  but Mr B told China Taiping 
he remained  concerned  about its safety. On 8 November Mr B chased the loss adjuster 
again about the fireplace  because  he said it was holding  up the redecoration. He said he 
didnt just want it cleaned,  he wanted a safety assessment. The following day, Mr B told the 
loss adjuster hed removed  the fireplace as an engineer had told him it was unsafe.
About a week later the loss adjuster told Mr B he shouldnt have disposed of the fireplace 
because it was the property of China  Taiping.
On 12 November, China Taiping issued  its final response to Mr Bs underinsurance 
complaint. It said itd checked its surveyors valuation and found it to be correct.  It drew  
Mr Bs attention to the wording he wouldve seen on the price comparison site hed bought  
the policy from, namely that it was his responsibility  to provide an accurate building  sum 
insured. It said its surveyor had carried out a value at risk calculation which showed the 
buildings sum insured  was only 88% adequate. 
As Mr B had already complained to this service  in September 2018,  and as his complaint 
also included complaints about  poor service and delays which China Taiping hadnt 
addressed in its final response, our investigator  sought its permission to also look at these 
aspects of his complaint  to which it consented.  
Our investigator issued  her findings in September  2019. She thought  that China Taiping had 
fairly applied  the policy  average clause to Mr Bs buildings  claim but she said there were 
delays with processing the contents  claim. She didnt think that China  Taiping  had unfairly 
declined a request  made by Mr B to move into alternative accommodation, that the 
settlement for the television was unfair or that proof of ownership of contents claimed was 
unreasonably requested.  Finally, our investigator  thought that China Taiping should pay to 
replace the fire and pay Mr B compensation of £500 for the poor customer  service and 
delays hed experienced. 
China Taiping replied  to our investigator to say it agreed with everything shed said and 
recommended except for the compensation payment  of £500. It said it believed all 
correspondence had been responded to in a timely manner  and within  accepted service 
level agreements.  So, it said the recommendation that it pay compensation of £500 was 
unfair. Our subsequent investigator  thought  about what China Taiping had said but didnt 
change his mind. He thought there  were  occasions  throughout the claim where Mr B had 
had to chase responses  along with avoidable delays  in progressing  the claim. 
Ref: DRN33794043As China Taiping remained unhappy the complaint  was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision in July 2020.  I made the following provisional findings and reached the 
following provisional decision:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why. 
For ease of reference Ill use the same  sub-headings here as our investigator did. 
underinsurance
Mr B wouldve  been  directed from the price comparison website to China  Taipings/its  
brokers own website to complete the sale. Its at this point the insurer is entitled  to ask more  
detailed questions. In this case, on being  redirected  to the brokers  website for China 
Taiping, Mr B wasnt asked any further  questions about the propertys rebuild value. Ive 
checked the proposal form and can see that all it said was Full rebuilding costs of the 
property (please note this is not the market value) and a figure of £186,000 was inserted  in 
a box alongside.  
Mr B says that he used  the tool available on the price  comparison site during the sale to 
calculate the rebuild cost of his house and that he entered all the details requested  
accurately. By relying on the price comparison site to assess  an average  value  of his 
property given its age, type, building material, an allowance for external  works and location 
etc. he was given  a rebuild cost by the tool of £186,000. Since making  his complaint, Mr B 
has entered a new quote on the price  comparison site and, by using the calculator tool 
available, has been given a rebuild cost of £190,000. Given that this latest figure  is so close  
to the figure Mr B obtained  at the point of sale he says he thinks it shows  his rebuild figure at 
the point of sale was correct and that he wasnt underinsured. 
When the loss adjuster  attended the property he carried out a more  detailed assessment 
using the industry  RCIS building cost calculator service which  required the precise 
measurement of floor area of the property. He included an amount for the garage,  fences 
and decking and obtained a rebuild value of £212,000.  From this figure,  China Taiping 
concluded that Mr B had underinsured his property by 12% and reduced  the buildings aspect 
of his claims settlement  accordingly. 
But the building cost calculator used by the loss adjuster wasnt  made available to Mr B 
during the sales  process. The only tool he came across was the one provided by the price 
comparison website. He provided the information  the tool required to calculate the rebuild 
cost and was given the figure of £186,000. 
Obviously the loss adjuster has the advantage of being an experienced valuer.  But I have to 
look at what Mr B was asked. And at no stage during the sales  process was he directed to 
get a professional valuation. Mr B has said if hed been advised to obtain a RICS  calculation 
then he wouldve done. As he wasnt, he doesnt  think its fair for China  Taiping  to disregard 
the only valuation  it asked him to obtain  and one which he says he took care to complete  in 
good faith. 
Ref: DRN33794044If China Taiping intends to rely on a detailed industry valuation tool to assess  the buildings 
sum insured during  the handling of the claim then it is only fair that it draws  this fact to a 
consumers attention at the point of sale. That way the consumer can make  sure the sum 
insured reflects  a professionally calculated rebuild cost. But I dont think its fair for China  
Taiping to offer policies based on a rebuild cost calculated by using a price  comparison 
website tool that differs so greatly from its own.  If China Taiping needed more information  to 
assess the rebuild value at risk before  taking  on Mr B then it shouldve  asked for it at point of 
sale. But Ive seen  no evidence that it did. 
As I dont think Mr B was given clear guidance about assessing the rebuild cost of his 
property I dont think its fair to reduce his buildings  settlement for underinsurance. I 
understand Mr B has had to pay the balance  of his contractors invoices himself. So, China 
Taiping now needs to reimburse him for the shortfall in the buildings  claim settlement it 
required him to pay. It will also need to pay him interest on this amount at this services  usual 
rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr B settled  his contractors invoices to the date it 
pays my award. 
alternative accommodation
I appreciate that the fire left the property  in an unpleasant condition  and without  an 
operational living room. But I dont think China  Taiping unfairly declined to offer Mr B and his 
family alternative accommodation. Thats  because  the kitchen and bathroom facilities  
remained usable. And whilst I dont doubt  that being  without a living  room was inconvenient, 
its typically when a kitchen and/or  bathroom are unavailable for use that we would require 
an insurer to look to provide alternative  accommodation. 
television settlement
The policy terms require China Taiping to pay what it would cost to replace the particular 
television model at the time of the claim rather than the price  it cost to buy when new. I can 
see the television originally cost Mr B £1,188 and that China  Taiping  offered Mr B £950  
which, it said, was sufficient to replace it with a model of similar  specification.  That seems  
fair to me and is in line with the policy terms. And I note that Mr B agreed to settle for this 
amount in any event.  
evidence required for contents claim
The policy requires the policy holder  to provide  evidence of value  and/or  age of contents 
items claimed for. Typically, this evidence  can include the original purchase  receipt  or 
subsequent valuation or proof of ownership. Insurers  are entitled to validate a claim and 
assess the value  of the items being  claimed  for. So, I dont think the loss adjuster 
unreasonably asked Mr B to provide  such evidence.
gas fire/fireplace
I can see that Mr B was extremely anxious  about the safety  of the electrically  operated gas 
fire. I can see it is located on a false wall adjacent to the patio doors that melted in the fire 
and that the seat of the fire itself was the other side of the wall to where  the fire was located. 
I can see that on raising this with the loss adjuster it was arranged  to have the fire cleaned 
but that the cleaners  were  unable to comment on whether it was still safe to operate.  I can 
also see that the loss adjuster said that there  was no fire or extreme  heat in the living  room  
Ref: DRN33794045so the gas fire was only smoke damaged, but that comment seems at odds with the 
evidence. 
In the circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Mr B to arrange  for a gas 
engineer to inspect  the gas fire. On attendance  I can see he was unable to service  it or 
check the flue owing to the redecoration  that was being carried out and the problems a fire 
could cause to the gas fire itself. And when the builders were removing and replacing  the 
plasterboard around the fire place they found the flue was cracked. The engineer  
recommended the fire be replaced.  
I think the loss adjuster  couldve  engaged  with Mr B more about  his concerns about the gas 
fire. I can see that Mr B asked for advice  about what to do with the gas fire on several  
occasions but received no response. In the end Mr B arranged to dispose of the fire. 
China Taiping said it wouldnt make a payment  in respect of the fire because Mr B had 
prejudiced its position  by disposing of it before it could inspect it. It also said that Mr B had 
disposed of potential  salvage. 
Mr B didnt dispose of the fire until the end of October  2018,  so I think that China Taiping and 
its loss adjusters had sufficient time to inspect  the fire and manage  this aspect of Mr Bs 
claim more  closely.  And I can see that Mr B told the loss adjuster that the fire was on the 
skip so it couldve retrieved it had it so wished. But even though it didnt do so, its 
reasonable to think that in its used and damaged  state it was unlikely to have held much  
value.
Taking all the circumstances into account,  I agree  with our investigator that China Taiping 
should fairly be required to pay to replace the damaged gas fire and fireplace as part of the 
claim. And I think it should pay the cost Mr B incurred in appointing  the gas engineer  to 
inspect the fire (together with interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple  per year). I 
think this is a fair and reasonable  resolution  to this aspect of Mr Bs complaint and Im 
pleased to note that China Taiping agreed  to our investigators recommendations in this 
respect. 
delays and customer service
Its only reasonable that an insurer  should  be permitted to take time to validate the claim and 
scope for any repair costs. So, whilst I accept it was disappointing for Mr B when the loss 
adjuster told him that it was going to appoint one of its own contractors to prepare a quote 
after Mr B had produced  two of his own, I dont think doing so was unreasonable. The loss 
adjuster found  Mr Bs quotes to be too high and thought  its own contractor could produce a 
more competitive quote. I appreciate that mustve been frustrating  for Mr B to have to wait 
but I dont think  it was unreasonable for China Taiping to seek  to reduce what  it had to pay. 
And in any event, part of the delay during this time was due to the wait for the asbestos  
report.
But I do think China Taiping avoidably delayed the settlement of Mr Bs contents  claim. I can 
see that Mr B repeatedly  chased the loss adjuster seeking progress on this aspect of the 
claim and that, not unreasonably, he wanted settlement so he could order  a new sofa. Yet it 
took two months  from Mr Bs completion and submission  of the contents list for this aspect of 
his claim to be progressed. 
Ref: DRN33794046I can see that China Taiping  has said it didnt  progress  the contents  claim until the building 
repairs were progressing, but I dont think that is a fair reason to delay the contents 
settlement. And this service would expect  to see both parts of the claim progressed 
concurrently. That way the contents claim should  be being validated  and replacement  items 
sourced so that when the buildings work  is completed the furniture can be delivered.  
I note that China Taiping doesnt agree it caused any delays or was responsible for any poor 
customer service  but Im unable to agree. It can be seen from what  Ive set out above how 
frequently Mr B was chasing the contents claim and getting no response.  
All insurance  claims,  by their very nature, attract a certain amount of inconvenience; some 
more than others. Fire claims are one of the more distressing claims to be involved with. 
Where an insurer,  through its words  or deeds  makes an already  stressful  situation worse,  
this service can award compensation. I think that by repeatedly having to chase the loss 
adjuster about  the contents  claim, Mr B was put to some avoidable inconvenience. And the 
delay in paying his contents claim  given he wanted to get on with ordering new furniture  
caused him un-necessary and avoidable  distress. 
But I dont think the fact Mr B was unable to hold the celebration  of his sons  birthday  at 
home in early September  was the fault of China Taiping. Even if the works  were started 
more promptly I cant reasonably see how they wouldve been completed by then. 
Ive thought about what fair compensation looks like by taking into account  all aspects of 
Mr Bs complaint and I think  that China Taiping should pay him some compensation for its 
failings. Ive had regard to this services  approach to such awards  and think that 
compensation of £250 fairly  reflects the level of avoidable distress and inconvenience China 
Taiping caused  Mr B in the way it handled  his claim and is in line with awards made  by this 
service in similar circumstances. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and to make China Taiping 
(UK) Co Ltd do the following:
reimburse Mr B for the shortfall in the buildings claim  settlement he was required to pay. 
Interest* will need  to be added  to this amount at this services  usual rate of 8% simple  
per year from the date Mr B settled his contractors invoices to the date China Taiping 
(UK) Co Ltd pays my award. 
pay for Mr B to replace his gas fire and fire place in line with the policy terms;
reimburse Mr B for any cost he incurred (upon proof of payment) in appointing  a gas 
engineer to inspect  his gas fire and pay interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple  
per year from the date Mr B paid the engineer  to the date China Taiping (UK) Co Ltd 
pays my award.
pay Mr B compensation  of £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to him by the 
avoidable delays  in its claims handling.
Mr B replied  to say he accepted my provisional  decision. China Taiping replied and said the 
comments it was making  in response were directed at the part of my provisional  decision 
related to delays  and customer service. It said that:
whilst  it appreciated  the compensation amount it was being  asked  to pay had halved it 
remained of the view that no compensation at all should be paid;
Ref: DRN33794047itd had to prioritise  certain aspects of Mr Bs fire claim and had focussed its attention on 
the buildings  aspect rather than the contents  aspect; 
some  items that originally formed part of the contents claim were  redirected to the 
buildings claim; in particular the fireplace and garden plants. So, aspects of the claim 
were interlinked meaning the contents claim wasnt straightforward or capable of being  
dealt with completely  independently of the buildings claim;
Mr B didnt  actually need some  contents  before the building was reinstated and that it 
was trying to avoid storage costs which may arise as a result  of delivery of items before 
the building  was reinstated;
Finally, some of the items that formed part of the contents claim were delayed  because 
Mr B hadnt been able to produce the necessary proof of ownership/purchase.  
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive noted  China Taipings comments in response to my provisional findings on delays 
to the claim and poor customer service, they havent  persuaded me to change my mind.  I 
appreciate that China Taiping doesnt  think it should  be made to pay any compensation, but I 
set out in my provisional decision my reasons why it should. Similarly, I note its comment 
about prioritising the buildings aspect of Mr Bs claim over the contents aspect but, for the 
reasons I gave provisionally, I dont agree. I think China  Taiping couldve progressed the 
contents claim more proactively so that damaged items could  be validated, and replacement  
items sourced, so that when  the buildings work was completed the furniture could be 
delivered. 
Nor am I persuaded  that the incorrect categorisation of certain  aspects of the claim should  
be used to justify  a delay in validation  and settlement. And if items werent capable of being  
dealt with independently of the buildings claim Im not sure I understand why they werent 
then progressed simultaneously. 
Whilst Mr B may not have needed  some  of his replacement contents delivered whilst  the 
buildings were being reinstated, he did need authorisation to source and order  items so that 
when the building was reinstated he was able to take delivery  and not be put to the 
additional inconvenience  of waiting even longer for replacement contents to arrive. 
Ive commented  provisionally that China Taiping was entitled to ask Mr B for proof of 
ownership for the items  he was claiming for. Ive not factored any delay to settlement of the 
contents claim that was the result of Mr B obtaining  the requested proof  into my 
compensation award. I set out provisionally how I thought China Taiping had caused Mr B 
an un-necessary delay  and explained  what I thought amounted  to poor customer service. It 
is for the reasons I gave  there that I remain of the view that compensation of £250 is fairly  
and reasonably due for the avoidable trouble and upset Mr B was caused. My provisional 
findings now form part of this, my final decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require China Taiping (UK) Co Ltd do the 
following:
Ref: DRN33794048reimburse Mr B for the shortfall in the buildings claim  settlement he was required to pay. 
Interest* will need  to be added  to this amount at this services  usual rate of 8% simple  
per year from the date Mr B settled his contractors invoices to the date China Taiping 
(UK) Co Ltd pays my award. 
pay for Mr B to replace his gas fire and fire-place in line with the policy  terms;
reimburse Mr B for any cost he incurred (upon proof of payment) in appointing  a gas 
engineer to inspect  his gas fire and pay interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple  
per year from the date Mr B paid the engineer  to the date China Taiping (UK) Co Ltd 
pays my award.
pay Mr B compensation  of £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to him by the 
avoidable delays  in its claims handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If China  Taiping (UK) Co Ltd considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr B a certificate  showing  this if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3379404