K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background 
Mr S took out a policy with Advantage. When applying for the policy Mr S said that hed lived 
in the UK since birth.  But he later confirmed  that wasn't correct and gave Advantage the date 
hed moved here. After  Advantage  corrected the date of Mr S residency in the UK it charged 
him an additional premium. Mr S brought his complaint about that to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 December 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.
premium calculation
Mr S thinks  that, as Advantage charges a higher premium for people  who havent  been 
resident in the UK since birth, then its being  discriminatory. And although I can understand 
why hes formed that view, I dont think hes right. Ill explain why.
I should say at the outset that were  not the insurance industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) is. So its not my role to tell Advantage how much  it can 
charge for its policies  or how to go about that. When setting premiums insurers will think 
about the likelihood that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they will have to 
pay out for those. And its not down to me to tell insurers  what factors they should  take into 
account when  assessing risk nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers  will 
have different views  on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a 
matter of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against the need  to compete with other 
policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to interfere with. 
Mr S said Advantage  discriminated  against  him even though  hes a British  citizen. I can 
understand why Mr S might think Advantage is unfair to charge a higher  premium to people  
who havent lived in the UK since birth. But each insurer will have their own methods of 
calculating risk. Im also aware  that many insurers will think  an individual  who hasnt lived in 
the UK since  birth presents a higher  risk than the people who have. And thats regardless of 
whether theyre  British  citizens  or not, so I dont think its treated him unfairly.  
As insurance  is essentially an assessment of risk I dont think  theres  anything  wrong  with 
insurers considering  whether  or not certain individuals  fall into higher risk groupings, 
especially where they have statistics to support that. And Ive noted that Advantage doesn't  
calculate premiums based  on where the customer was born,  only on how long theyve lived 
in the UK. So its the length of time that a customer has lived in the UK thats important in 
Advantages rating of risk. It doesnt consider a customers nationality or race.  And as its 
treated Mr S in the same way as others  with similar circumstances who fall into the same 
higher risk grouping, I think its done  so reasonably. 
Ref: DRN39101252charging the additional premium
Advantage said that Mr S had made a mistake when  applying  for the policy.  And its treated 
that mistake as careless rather  than reckless or deliberate. A mistake of that nature is known 
in the insurance  industry as a misrepresentation. And theres specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  which  sets out 
what insurers may do in such a situation.  It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied). But if the consumer isnt 
happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply impose  an additional premium as Advantage did. 
But we think  its reasonable for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres a problem and 
give them  the option of paying  the additional premium  in order  to keep the policy going or 
otherwise to cancel  the policy themselves without any penalty. But Advantage didnt do that 
so I dont think it applied  CIDRA fairly. 
While weve been considering the complaint the policy has lapsed. So Advantage can't offer 
Mr S the option of cancelling  his policy without needing to pay a cancellation charge at this 
time. So Ive thought about whats likely to have happened if Advantage had given Mr S that 
option at the time it calculated the additional  premium. And given  his strong  reaction  to being 
told to pay an additional premium I think its likely that Mr S would have cancelled the policy.  
But thats no longer an option  thats  open  to him. And that means  that Mr S paid the 
additional premium  when he might not have needed  to.
So to put things right I think  Advantage should  reimburse the additional premium it charged 
Mr S and add simple interest  to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it collected it to 
the date it refunds them.
developments
Mr S said that while he was pleased that the decision  went in his favour,  he still believed 
Advantage had discriminated against him. He suggested  that his three  year old daughter 
would be treated differently to her nursery  school  friends [by Advantage] because she wasn't  
born in the UK. He said he could understand my decision if it applied  to people who had only 
been resident  in the UK for five or ten years but in his case  he thought this was a clear case 
of discrimination. 
Advantage didn't reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to maintain my 
provisional decision.
Ill take the opportunity to repeat that were not the insurance industry regulator. So its not 
our role to police the insurance industry.  And I dont  have the authority to tell the insurance  
industry how it should go about  assessing  risk. My role is to look at individual  complaints in 
Ref: DRN39101253order to decide  whether  insurers have  behaved  fairly and reasonably  in each individual  case. 
And thats the approach  I've taken  here.  
Mr S repeated that he thinks Advantage discriminated against him. But as I said in my 
provisional decision Advantages  risk-rating  is based on statistics.  That risk rating changes 
depending on how long its policyholders have lived in the UK. So the key factor when its 
assessing risk is a policyholders length  of residence in the UK. Its not based on nationality 
or race. And as its statistics show that drivers who werent born in the UK and have lived 
here for a shorter time are more  likely  to make a claim I think its reasonable that it reflects  
that increased risk in its premium pricing structure. 
Mr S has also referred to how Advantages risk assessments might  affect  his three-year old 
daughter in the future.  But insurers regularly revisit  their approach to risk rating. And I can't 
say what approach Advantage or any other  insurer may or may not take at the point his 
daughter is looking  for motor insurance,  which will likely be 13 or more years  from now,  or 
whether or not that might be fair. So I dont  intend  to comment  further on that point here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to refund  to Mr S the additional premium it charged him. It should add 
simple interest* to that refund at the rate of 8% a year from the date Mr S paid it to the date it 
refunds him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers it is required to deduct  income  tax from the 
interest award, it should provide Mr S with evidence that it has done so and the amount deducted so 
they can reclaim  it from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3910125