K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  (TUL) hasnt treated him fairly when dealing 
with a claim he made on his home insurance policy.
background
At the end of November 2018  Mr N discovered a leak in the cistern  attached  to his toilet. He 
found water  on the floor  and because the toilet isnt used very often,  was unsure how long 
the leak had been going on for.
Mr N switched off the water and contacted TUL. He said the tiles were beginning to lift and 
he didnt know the extent of the damage as it might have spread  to adjoining rooms. TUL 
said it would  register his claim  and reminded him the excess (the amount he would have to 
pay before  TUL would meet  any costs)  was £500  for this type of damage.
A few days  later a contractor visited. By now Mr N had had the toilet repaired   and had 
cleaned up the water. The contractor  took some  photos, and Mr N says he was told that if he 
wanted to check  if the damage was more extensive than apparent at first sight,  hed have to 
lift tiles etc himself and send photos to the contractor.
Mr N says that wasnt fair, especially when his policy  booklet  said he shouldnt do that as his 
claim could  be cancelled  as a result.
TUL said it wouldnt expect a contractor to lift tiles if there was no apparent damage  and 
the photos it got from the contractor showed  no damage associated  with an escape of water. 
It also thought  that, given  this was a very small room, the cost of any repairs would likely fall 
within the £500 excess.
After Mr N complained, a second contractor visited in February 2019. Moisture readings  
were taken and the floor found to be damp, and the tiles showed signs of water damage.  
That damage might extend  to other  rooms.
TUL said it would  reconsider the claim if Mr N sent in some proof that there had been  a 
water leak.  Mr N sent a copy of his repair bill, which TUL has accepted.  It says it will 
reconsider the claim but that in order to do that Mr N will need to let the first contractor return  
to assess the amount  of damage  before any work can be carried out. If that isnt acceptable 
then Mr N would need to get his own quotes for the work, which would  then be assessed for 
costs before any repairs can be authorised.
Mr N doesnt want the first contractor to return as he says hes had problems with them  not 
returning calls or other contacts and hes lost faith in them. He also wants  some 
compensation for the way his claim has been  dealt with.
TUL says its spoken to the contractor about the communication  problems and its sorry he 
had problems. It still says it will reconsider the claim if Mr N agrees to one of the procedures 
above.
Mr N remained  unhappy about  this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
TUL had made a fair offer and neednt  do any more. She said she could put Mr Ns request 
about who did the repairs to TUL but couldnt guarantee it would agree to appoint  someone 
else.
Ref: DRN38677962Mr N isnt satisfied with that so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint. Mr N has pointed  
out that part of his original  complaint was that hed been told to lift tiles etc, when  his policy  
said he shouldnt do that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to comment on every point Mr N has made  instead Ill concentrate  on what  I 
believe are the main issues.
The underlying principles of making a claim are that the customer has to show  that an 
insured event has taken place  in this case a water leak. Once  this has been  done the 
insurer should meet the claim in line with the terms and conditions in Mr Ns policy, providing 
no exclusions  reasons why it need  not meet  the claim  apply. 
I should also explain that when looking at complaints like this, I take into account the fact 
that having to make  a claim,  however  smoothly it goes, can be distressing and inconvenient. 
Some of that will be because of the circumstances and the need to make a claim. An insurer  
isnt responsible for that. But it is responsible for any unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience it causes.   
the claim 
Ive read the insurers own file notes and correspondence and also everything Mr N sent us. 
The file notes say that there wasnt any apparent water  damage to the toilet  floor when the 
first contractor visited. They do suggest  the contractor thought there  was some damage  
but that it was more  likely wear and tear than the result of a leak. The photos taken at the 
time dont  show any apparent damage.
I think it reasonable for an insurer to rely on a report it receives  from its appointed contractor 
before deciding whether to progress a claim.  If theres doubt about  the report then further  
investigation should be carried out. Thats what was arranged in February 2019  and 
evidence of damp beneath  the flooring was found,  which requires further investigation.
TUL is prepared to do this, but Mr N wants it to simply carry out the necessary  work, rather  
than scope the extent of the work and then carry out repairs. I dont think thats appropriate. 
Without an assessment  of what work  is needed TUL has no way of knowing whether the 
cost (to TUL) of repairs falls above or below the excess  of £500 that applies to this claim. If it 
falls below, TUL would  be able to tell Mr N to arrange repairs  himself.
TUL says an assessment  can either  be carried out by its contractor  or Mr N can get his 
own quotes for the work. It will then assess those for a reasonable match between the 
required work and how much it would cost TUL to carry out the work. That is sometimes less 
than a member of the public might get the same  work done for. TUL would  then make  a cash 
settlement.
Thats a reasonable offer, and should  enable this claim  to be brought to a close.
Ref: DRN38677963the claims process
I can understand why Mr N has been frustrated by the way this claim has been  handled.  
From what  hes told us, hes done  everything  that was expected  of him  he had the leak 
repaired, cleaned  up the water to prevent further  damage and told TUL what had happened. 
All of that was clear in the first call Mr N made  in early December 2018. At that point TUL 
responded appropriately as it agreed  to send out someone to assess the damage. 
Problems began when the first contractor told Mr N hed have to lift tiles himself if he wanted 
to prove  to TUL the damage was more extensive  than at first sight.  I agree with Mr N that 
this wasnt something he should be doing   it was more appropriate for TUL to arrange  this. 
Having said that, I can understand  why TUL didnt immediately offer to do this given the 
contractor said there  was no sign of damage caused  by a leak.
However, TUL did say it would get moisture readings after Mr N complained. That seems  
reasonable to me, even if Mr N thought by that time the room was likely  to be dry. And a 
further visit revealed that there is damage  that needs repair   and that the room remains  
damp. Its unfortunate  that TUL waited until this point to request proof  that an insured event 
had occurred, because  that did delay progress.  But I dont think  it added  substantially to the 
timeframe. 
Mr N also complained about communication with the contractor.  TUL acknowledged this 
hadnt been good enough, and apologised. It also says its contacted the contractor about 
this. These  actions seem fair to me.
moving forwards
TUL says it will meet  this claim, and its given  Mr N options about how that can be taken 
forwards. Both appear to be reasonable ways  to make progress, so I think  its now up to    
Mr N to decide if he wants to have the repairs done by TUL,  or accept a cash  settlement and 
get them done himself. Id expect TUL to take into account Mr Ns preference for a different 
contractor than the one that first visited, although I dont think its appropriate  for me to say it 
must use a different  one. I can say that, if TUL undertake  repairs for Mr N, it will be 
responsible for the quality of the repairs: if Mr N decides to take a cash  settlement and 
organise them himself, then TULs involvement  will stop once the settlement is paid. All of 
this assumes the repairs will cost more than the £500 excess  on Mr Ns policy.  If they dont 
then Mr N will need to carry out any repairs himself.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, as Tesco Underwriting has already 
responded appropriately to Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3867796