K820x#14complaint
Ms Y complains  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS") mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  The policy was added  to 
Ms Ys credit  card account when she filled in a paper application  sent to her in the post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms Y disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Ms Y mainly told us that she bought the cover  as she believed at the time that it was 
necessary to be given  the credit. She also says shes unhappy that RBS made no effort to 
check her personal circumstances - she told us didnt need the insurance and doesnt think it 
wouldve paid out in the event of a claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ys complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive taken carefully into account  the reason why Ms Y told us she signed  to have PPI. But 
this was a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable  to expect Ms Y to recall exactly what 
she had in mind at the time. I have to look at all the available information and the wider 
circumstances and decide what I think is most likely.  What  Ms Y says now isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.
Ive seen Ms Ys completed credit card application form. In order  to have PPI she had to tick 
in a box next to where it said: We strongly recommend you take out this cover. So I think  
the wording and layout of the form made it clear that if she hadnt wanted PPI Ms Y couldve 
left this box blank.  I can completely understand if shes forgotten this now.  But, on balance, 
I think RBS made Ms Y aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. 
Ms Y filled in a paper application sent to her at home. RBS didnt advise Ms Y to take out the 
policy. So it didnt have  to check  if it was suitable  for her. But it still had to make sure that it 
gave Ms Y clear enough information  so she was able to make a proper decision about  
whether PPI was right for her. And if this didnt happen, then I have to think about whether  
this made  any overall difference to Ms Y.
Ive taken into account that she told us she wouldve had good sick pay entitlement.  But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay  and in full for longer than she couldve 
depended on continuing to receive  full pay from her employer - up to 12 months per claim if 
she had an accident  or she was off work  sick.
And it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if Ms Y lost her job unexpectedly and was out of 
work. 
Ref: DRN34225522Ms Y mentioned having critical illness cover  in place but this doesnt affect my decision. This 
wouldve provided a different  sort of benefit  and paid out in different circumstances to PPI. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Ms Y if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Ms Y had some savings at the time. But I dont know  if she 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make  a claim. And the policy  paid 
out for longer than the amount of savings shes mentioned wouldve lasted if shed had to 
rely on these to cover her outgoings  when she was unable  to work.  
Ms Y chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of cover, knowing 
what her financial circumstances were  at the time.  Based  on everything shes told us, I think 
that Ms Y couldve benefitted from the PPI when she took it out. And if her circumstances 
later changed, or she no longer wanted  to pay to keep the policy  running, she wouldve been 
able to cancel  this PPI without  further  cost at any time. 
Its possible some of the information  RBS gave Ms Y about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Ms Y was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think more information  about policy  exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference  to her decision to take it out.  
I dont think its likely  that RBS properly explained  the policy cost, or what it might pay out if 
Ms Y made a claim. But she chose  to have the policy when she didnt have to  and 
I havent seen  anything to suggest it wasnt affordable for her when she signed up for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Ms Y, I think  it unlikely she wouldve made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. 
This means  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Ms Y.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms Y 
because: 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Ms Y about that. Because The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt tell Ms Y, that was unfair.  
To put that right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and 
I think that offer is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  everything Ms Y has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. But, for the reasons Ive explained, these points  dont change  my 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN34225523what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc needs to do
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has to pay back to Ms Y any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc should  
also pay back to Ms Y any extra interest  she paid because of that.
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to 
Ms Y the difference between what Ms Y owed and what  she wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc should also pay Ms Y 8%* simple interest if she paid off the credit card 
at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms Y can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms Y.
But (if it hasnt already)  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc does have to pay back  to Ms Y any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3422552