K820x#14complaint
Santander merged  with the business that sold Mr and Mrs R their mortgage and the PPI and 
it has dealt with this complaint.  So to keep things simpler, Ill refer to Santander as the seller 
in my decision.
Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage during  1988.  Its unclear exactly when they took out PPI  
but the record of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage repayments shows that they first paid for PPI in 
January 1989.The PPI protected Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage monthly repayments against 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. Mr and Mrs R have a number  of concerns about the policy. One of their main 
complaints is that it wasnt explained to them why PPI was necessary. Mr and Mrs R dont 
think they needed PPI as they had other means to rely on to cover  their mortgage monthly 
repayments. Theyre also concerned about whose name the policy was in  they believe it 
covered both of them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr and Mrs R had a joint mortgage so Ive looked at both their circumstances when the 
insurance was taken out. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened and how the PPI 
was likely to have been presented. But its not surprising, given how long ago this sale 
happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect Santander or Mr and Mrs R 
to have kept this. And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what  Mr and Mrs R remember 
about the sale after such a long time.  
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Mr and Mrs R recall applying for the mortgage in a local branch. It isnt clear exactly when 
they applied for the PPI. Santander told us that mailshot applications  were  sent to mortgage 
customers. So I think its possible that Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI after their mortgage 
started  and that could explain the delay between the mortgage  start date and the date they 
started to pay for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN33473272I appreciate a policy leaflet Santander has provided suggests that the policy  was only 
available to new mortgage customers and the PPI application had to be received before the 
mortgage completed or no later than 4 weeks afterwards. But I dont know  if the actual policy  
Mr and Mrs R took out was subject to this time limit. And generally  policyholders  have to pay 
for a policy when it is taken out. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that this policy  was offered with 
a free period at the start. The fact that it appears Mr and Mrs R didnt pay for the PPI until 
January 1989  suggests to me that its likely they applied for the policy shortly before then. 
But not knowing the exact date they were sold the policy doesnt make any difference to my 
overall view. 
I think they wouldve  understood  that PPI was an optional  extra  as they hadnt  had to have it 
when they started  their mortgage. 
And Mr and Mrs R wouldve had to fill in a separate PPI application  to take out the PPI. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Rs home wouldve been  at risk if their mortgage payments  werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection  than it looks  
like they had otherwise.  So, I can see why Mr and Mrs R mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs R decided they wanted  to protect their home by 
taking out the PPI offered  and it was added to their account when they chose to buy the 
policy.  
As I dont know exactly what was said to Mr and Mrs R about the PPI its not clear whether 
Santander mightve advised them to take out the policy.  So, to be as fair as possible to 
Mr and Mrs R Ill look at this complaint on the basis  that Santander did recommend the 
policy to them. This means  that as well as giving Mr and Mrs R clear information,  Santander  
had an additional  obligation - it also had to take reasonable  steps to make  sure any PPI 
recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs R.
Santander told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from when 
Mr and Mrs R started  paying for the PPI. But it has provided a policy document which it 
appears mightve been in use shortly before this. So I think its likely that the policy  
Mr and Mrs R took out wouldve had broadly similar terms and conditions.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs R are concerned about whose name the policy was 
in. In support  of their view that they both had PPI Mr and Mrs R rely on the fact that they had 
a joint mortgage  and the policy says protection was open to people  between 18 and 55 
taking out a new mortgage 
But it doesnt follow that both parties  to a joint mortgage would necessarily have had joint 
PPI. Sometimes one party doesnt want or need  PPI, or they cant both take advantage of all 
the policy benefits, or (as here) only one of the parties was eligible for the policy.  I say this 
because Mr and Mrs R told us that Mrs R wasnt working at the time. The policy  wouldnt 
have offered any benefit to a person who wasnt working so I dont think its likely that the 
policy benefit wouldve  been split between Mr and Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN33473273Even if the policy benefits were (incorrectly) shared  between them, it wouldve only made a 
difference if Mr and Mrs R had lost out in money  terms as a result  of the full benefit not being 
paid if there  was a claim by one of them on the policy. That never  happened  as they made 
no claim on the policy. This means even if Mr and Mrs R were correct  in thinking  Santander  
made a mistake about this I couldnt  fairly say Mr and Mrs R are worse  off financially. So this 
wouldnt affect the overall outcome.
It looks like Mr and Mrs R couldve chosen to protect their mortgage  monthly  repayments  for 
up to 24 months per accident  and sickness claim.  This was significantly longer than Mr R 
told us he was entitled to sick pay. And PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay. So this 
couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely  to have been a difficult  time as Mr R mightve 
had extra costs  if he was ill or disabled. 
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 24 months per claim in the event that Mr R lost his 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs R wouldve always had savings they couldve relied  on to cover  
their mortgage monthly repayments and other outgoings if Mr R wasnt  working. Having PPI 
provides more dependable cover than relying on other people  to help out in the event of 
money problems as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs R had sufficient  other means to rely on to cover  their 
mortgage monthly repayments if neither  of them was working.
They told us that Mr R was the only earner. So he was eligible for the policy  and I can see 
why Mr and Mrs R mightve wanted  to protect  his income. I think  losing his income wouldve 
had a significant impact  on Mr and Mrs Rs financial position. I dont know how long its likely 
that Mr and Mrs R wouldve been able to manage  the monthly mortgage repayments  if Mr R 
wasnt working. So I think having this cover wouldve  been  important  to Mr and Mrs R at the 
time, even  if theyve forgotten now.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs R were given about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied in Mr Rs case. So, I dont think having  more  information about the exclusions 
and limitations in the policy wouldve  put them off taking it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs R when they bought the policy. 
But they chose  to take out the cover when they didnt  have  to have it  so it seems  they were 
happy at the time to pay for it. Ive seen nothing  to suggest the policy  wasnt affordable  for 
Mr and Mrs R. As they paid for the policy each month they couldve cancelled it at any time 
without extra cost if they didnt want to keep  paying  for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs R still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
So, I dont find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Santander mightve done wrong. 
This means  Santander  doesnt need to do anything to put things  right.
Ref: DRN33473274In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  everything Mr and Mrs R have said,  
including the points theyve mentioned in response to our adjudicators  views.  I appreciate  
that theyre unhappy  about what they were charged  for the PPI. But I am just dealing here 
with their mis-selling complaint, so this information  doesnt change my decision. If they want  
to complain that the PPI monthly premiums werent correct then this would be a separate  
complaint. But if so, then they will first need  to complain to Santander about this so it has a 
chance to comment.  If they do that and feel that complaint isnt resolved satisfactorily then 
they will be able to complain to us about it. But I cant comment  further  on this here as it isnt 
something Santander has yet had any opportunity to respond to. 
I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3347327