K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs A took out PPI in 1996 to protect their mortgage repayments.  YBS cant  confirm 
where the sale took place but its most likely it was in one of its branches. The policy  
protected them against accident, sickness and unemployment. They  paid a monthly  amount 
for the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me. When Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to 
us they also complained about a PPI policy  they were sold in 1993. Our adjudicator 
explained that we cant consider that sale as part of this complaint against  YBS as it seems 
YBS wasnt  the seller  of that policy.  So this final decision looks  only at the 1996  sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs A that the PPI was optional   and they had to
agree to take it out. I cant know what was discussed and Mr and Mrs A havent  been able to 
give much  detail about the sale.  So Ive looked  at the paperwork available. They completed 
and signed a PPI application  form selecting the type and level of cover  they wanted.  Theres  
nothing on this form that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. 
On balance, I think its most likely YBS made  it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs A 
agreed to take it out.
YBS didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs A so it didnt have to check  the policy was 
right for them. Rather, it had to give them enough information so they could decide for 
themselves whether they wanted to buy PPI.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as
it should have  been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy  if they
had received better information. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs A were  eligible  for the policy given their circumstances at the time and 
the policys terms and conditions.
They werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
Ref: DRN31816872conditions. As they couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think  it 
unlikely they needed better information  about  the exclusions  and limitations.
Mr and Mrs A were  both entitled to just statutory sick pay and the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months.  It also gave up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Mr and Mrs A were  borrowing a large  sum of money over a long 
time secured  against their home. Given the serious consequences  of missing  
mortgage repayments I think the PPI would have been useful if they were sick or lost 
their job(s).  And they did infact  make  two successful claims under the policy.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. So I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different 
decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs A have lost out because  of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3181687