K820x#14Complaint
Ms C, the executor of her brother and mothers estates, Mr R and Mrs R, is unhappy  with 
Tesco Underwriting Limiteds  decision to decline  their contents insurance  claim following a 
fire at the insured property.
background
The circumstances of this claim are very unfortunate.  Mr R sadly  died in the fire to which the 
claim relates. That fire was several  years back,  although Ms C didnt discover that there was 
a contents insurance  policy in place  with Tesco until her mother, Mrs R, passed away more 
recently. The existence of the policy was discovered when Ms C learnt that her mother, who 
was very unwell for some time, had continued to pay for the policy  after the property had 
been sold. Both Mr R and Mrs R were policyholders.
Another company  in Tescos group refunded the premiums for the years that Mrs R had no 
insurable interest in the policy. But that still left the fire claim for the lost contents  to be dealt 
with. Given the intensity of the fire and that no-one  knew of the existence  of the policy, no 
formal record of what little remained of the contents  was ever compiled.
On learning of the claim, Tesco did its best to treat Ms Cs situation  sensitively. And it offered 
to pay both estates  a total of £8,000 as a goodwill offer, to in part reimburse Mr Rs funeral 
expenses and to provide  for a memorial.  But given the lack of written evidence to show what  
contents were lost, it rejected the estates  fire claim.
Ms C has since  told Tesco what she recollects  was in the property and has provided  some 
approximate values. The policy had a maximum sum assured of £19,000, with a policy  limit 
of £5,700 for valuables.
Tesco has said that because it was no longer possible to verify the estates claim, and there 
was no proof  available of what was in the property and who owned it, it couldnt accept the 
claim. Ms C thinks that the items in the property  were  valued  at around £17,000.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. She thought  
that Tesco had acted reasonably in declining the claim and that its goodwill offer was a fair 
settlement. Ms C didnt  agree, and the matter came  to me for a decision.
In advance of this final decision,  I issued  a provisional decision to the parties. In that I said I 
intended to uphold this complaint and require that Tesco consider Ms Cs evidence about  
what was in the property at the time of the fire. Ms C responded and told me some more  
about the circumstances of the loss. She also said shed like Tesco to reconsider its 
settlement offer,  which  she didnt think fairly valued  her mother  and brothers estates claim. 
Tesco responded to say that it didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In particular, it said 
that it wasnt possible to verify the claim and thats why it had made a goodwill  settlement 
offer. It doesnt think that it can validate the existence or value of the items that Ms C has 
said were in the property.  So, it still doesnt  think that it should cover the claim because  of 
that inability to fully validate  it.
Ref: DRN35175682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the parties responses to my provisional decision, I still intend to uphold  
it. Ill explain why below.
My provisional findings were as follows:
I was sorry to hear about the sad circumstances of both Mr R and Mrs Rs deaths. This is a 
very unusual  claim, particularly given the amount of time that has passed between  the fire 
and the claim being made. That said, it is a claim that I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Tesco to have considered in accordance with the terms of the policy, rather  
than just making a generic estimate of what the value  of the items in the home may have 
been and then making a goodwill offer.
Whilst I think that Tesco had the best of intentions when making its offer,  it would have been 
more appropriate  for it to have sought some  more detail from Ms C before declining  the 
claim and offering to make a goodwill payment. Since the complaint started, Ms C has now 
provided additional detail of what she thinks was in the property. So Ive had the opportunity  
to consider this against Tescos assessment of the likely value of the contents.
Tescos advisers estimated that the value of the contents in the property may have been in 
the region of £3,500.  Ms C thinks that, on a conservative basis,  they were  more likely to 
have been worth around £17,000. Tesco has offered £8,000,  not as a settlement of the 
claim, but as a goodwill  settlement offer.
When making an insurance claim, its the responsibility of the claimant to show that a loss 
has been suffered.  Theres  of course  no dispute that there was a fire. And clearly  everything 
in the property appears to have been  a total loss. But Tesco  says Ms C, on behalf of the 
estates, cant show what was lost. Its true that she has no written record  of what  was in the 
property. But she does  recollect a number of items  that she says her brother had. These 
include high end stereo equipment, records, books and a piano. There  were also clothes, 
bed clothes and decorations.
I accept that the circumstances of this claim are very unusual.  And so, I was pleased  to see 
that Tesco had treated  it differently to how it would assess  a normal  home contents claim.  
Thats only fair and reasonable. But Ms Cs recollection of what her brother had is evidence. 
And that is all that Tesco has to go on. Of course,  with it being so many years ago, the 
details of what Mr R and Mrs R had in the property will not be fresh  in Ms Cs mind. But she 
has made what appears at first sight to be a credible  assessment of what was likely to have  
been there. And she of course knew  her brother and mother and what  they had in the 
property.
Tesco says that it has considered the list, but this doesnt change the outcome of the claim. 
Ive also had a look through the list. It of course cant be an exact science to determine  
whether or not Ms Cs recollection is correct, or indeed that the values shes placed on the 
items are right. But nothing that shes  included  strikes me as being  a wholly unreasonable 
assessment of what Mr R may have  had in the property,  particularly  given the details of his 
lifestyle that we have evidence of. 
Ref: DRN35175683I also cant comment on the exact  values Ms C has put on the items, as thats for Tesco to 
determine, but valuable items on the policy cover  were limited to £5,700.  Mr R appears to 
have had little possessions that satisfied  the definition of valuables in the policy: the most  
expensive things he had being his stereo equipment and his music collection.
Ms C has made reference to the policy not requiring that she provide receipts to evidence  
the items  claimed  for. Contrary  to Tescos suggestion that she must have seen this in the 
policy terms and conditions, Ive found  it on the statement of fact which says: In the event of 
any claim for any valuable item worth  more than £2,000 we will require a purchase  receipt  or 
a valuation not more than 3 years old. Im sorry to disappoint Ms C but Im afraid that 
statement doesnt, in my view, mean that Tesco can only require receipts if the item was 
valued at over £2,000. But I can understand how she was confused by this. In any event, 
given the unusual circumstances of this case,  I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable for 
Tesco to require receipts for the items concerned before it agrees to pay for them, as clearly  
these are unlikely  to be available.
I think that this is a claim that Tesco should  have made a greater effort to verify. Proof is 
difficult for Ms C to provide, but her testimony  of what  her brother had in the property is all 
that there  is to go on. And theres  nothing that Ive seen that would  indicate  that her 
recollection should be discounted before being properly investigated by Tescos  claims 
verification team.
In order to have  treated  Ms C and the estates fairly and reasonably,  I think Tesco  should  
have assessed  the claim  in accordance  with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, making an allowance for the lack of written  or photographic evidence  available.
Therefore, I consider  that Tesco should  now assess the claim on the basis  of the evidence  
available and pay the estates of Mr R and Mrs R what  may be due for the loss suffered by 
them in the fire.
As I said above, its not for me to say whether or not Ms Cs estimates  of the value of the 
items in the property  are correct. And it may be that the offer Tesco has already made is a 
fair one, even if it wasnt done  on the basis of a more  detailed assessment of the value of the 
actual items  in the property. But in the event that the claim, once assessed, is valued  at less 
than £8,000, at this service we wouldnt normally think it fair to withdraw  an offer thats 
already been made to settle a complaint. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Tesco to honour  its original offer and pay the estates  at least that amount in any event. 
I take Tescos point that given the time elapsed, this is a more difficult claim  to validate. But 
that doesnt mean that its impossible to do so. Tesco has said that it would normally  want to 
have, amongst other things, the opportunity for a site visit by a loss adjuster, evidence of the 
items being claimed for in the home together with evidence of their condition,  key witness  
statements, etc.
I wholly appreciate  that this is an unusual situation.  And whilst I might  normally  say that 
Tesco would not be unreasonable to ask for such things,  clearly here, the majority of these 
are now no longer possible.  Tesco  will have seen from Ms Cs response to my provisional 
decision that she is a key witness to what her brother  had in the premises  before the fire. 
Shed gifted a number  of the items in the property to him and was aware of a lot of the things 
that he inherited from his uncle, as well as those items that her mother  had provided for him. 
Ms Cs testimony is compelling. And accordingly,  I would  expect  Tesco to consider it 
carefully and sympathetically, given  that it is all thats now available. 
Ref: DRN35175684Ms C is also quite specific about a number of the items that her brother  had. And I dont think 
its unreasonable to expect  Tescos loss adjusters to be able to put an estimated value on 
them. The offer that its made to date was based on a loss adjusters view of the sort of 
things that might have  been in a property  of the size and type that Mr R had. But here there 
is evidence available  of what  he actually had. Whilst thats Ms Cs recollection and not 
physical or written evidence, it is in my view something that a loss adjuster should be able to 
take account of when  valuing  this claim.  So that should now happen.
So, in summary,  the findings set out in my provisional decision havent changed and I 
accordingly confirm them  in this final decision.
 
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint against Tesco  Underwriting Limited.
I require that Tesco  Underwriting  Limited consider the claim in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy, paying due regard to Ms Cs account of what was in the 
property when assessing the insurable interests  and the value of the items  that Mr R and 
Mrs R had. Tesco Underwriting Limited should pay the estates the higher of its offer of 
£8,000 and the re-assessed value of the contents of the property.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C on behalf  of 
the estates of Mr R and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517568