K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains about QIC Europe Ltd for failing to pay on a claim for a concealed leak in 
her bathroom. All reference to QIC Europe  Ltd includes  its agents.
background
Mrs T returned from a two-week holiday and discovered thered been a leak from a 
concealed pipe behind the toilet in her bathroom.  She thought the water  had damaged  the 
floor and some units and she claimed under  her home insurance  policy  with QIC. 
QIC sent out a surveyor and when they got his report, they declined  her claim by relying  on 
an exclusion  for damage caused as a result of failed sealant or grout. QIC suggested  the 
sealant or grout on the shower had failed.  
Mrs T didnt  think  the damage she was claiming  for was caused by a failed seal or grout  and 
complained to QIC. She provided a report  from her plumber, who said the floor had to be 
replaced as a result of a leak from behind the toilet and that the bathroom needed refitting.  
Eventually QIC accepted  some of the damage  Mrs T was claiming for was covered and 
offered her £1,084 after deducting  the policy excess.  
Mrs T wasnt happy with this and complained to us. She says shes  spent over £7,000 on the 
bathroom. And, while she accepts shes not entitled  to get everything  shes paid back, she 
thinks she should get significantly more than QIC have offered. 
Our investigator eventually recommended QIC pay to replace the floor and bathroom  fittings,  
plus interest and £500  in compensation  for distress  and inconvenience. 
QIC dont agree with the investigators  recommendation and have asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. They accept they should pay another  £300 - £500 for the 
replacement of the joists, but not for everything the investigator has suggested. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, Im upholding it. 
My starting point is to look at the terms of Mrs Ts policy. The policy says
Escape of water or oil
We will cover loss or damage caused by escape of water escaping  from any
-fixed domestic water installation;
-heating system;
-domestic appliance (such  as a washing
machine, dishwasher,  fridge or freezer):
within your property..
Ref: DRN37882602Mrs Ts policy also has exclusion clauses which apply to claims for escape of water  or oil 
which say the following:
This cover  does not include
(c ) loss or damage caused  by a gradual  water or oil leak.
(g) loss or damage caused by sealant  or grout failing to work properly or by an inappropriate 
sealant or grout being used
This means  that if the damage to Mrs Ts bathroom  was caused by escape of water  from a 
bath, shower or pipe to the toilet cistern, and it happened suddenly, it would be covered by 
her policy,  unless it was caused  by sealant or grouting failing. If the damage happened  
gradually, but Mrs T wouldnt have been  aware  of it previously, then I would not consider it a 
fair and reasonable outcome for QIC to decline the claim  by relying  on the above exclusion. 
This is in line with our well-established approach, which is based on the fact consumers  
shouldnt be penalised  when they had no way of preventing damage caused  gradually by a 
specific insured event. 
In this case, I dont  think QIC acted  fairly  in relying on their exclusion clause. This is because
QIC declined the claim  saying that the damage  was on-going and happened as a result of 
the faulty sealant. They dismissed Mrs Ts claims that the damage was caused  by a 
concealed leak, without  really thinking about it and continued to focus on the defective 
sealant and grout. In declining  the claim, they relied on their surveyors  report which  said 
there was a leakage  from the bath seals/shower  cubicle  and from within the hideaway vanity  
units. Ive seen a copy  of the report,  but I dont think the surveyor  carried out a thorough  
enough inspection  of the damage, because the report  doesnt  say anything about  the actual 
cause of the damage to the bathroom.
It was only after much correspondence with Mrs T that QIC re-considered their position and 
as a gesture of goodwill  offered to pay for some  of the repairs.  But, QIC still maintain that the 
damage was as a result  of the defective sealant  and are refusing  to cover all the repairs. 
But, Im satisfied the damage Mrs T is claiming  for was caused by the concealed leak from a 
toilet cistern pipe, and Im satisfied that she wasnt aware of it until she came  back from her 
holiday.
I say this because  looking at the evidence,  including photographs and Mrs Ts plumbers 
report, and from the more  recent comments from QICs surveyor,  Im persuaded that most of 
the damage to Mrs Ts bathroom was caused  by the leaking pipe behind the toilet  cistern.  
The reports  and photographs are consistent with Mrs Ts claims that the damage caused  
couldnt have  been from the defective  sealant  and grouting because the floor in this area 
was dry. This is consistent with the report provided by Mrs Ts plumber, who said that the 
leak was not visible and not detectable.  
 
It is for these reasons, that I agree with our investigator and think  a fair and reasonable 
outcome is for QIC to pay the cost of repairing the floor and making  good  the bathroom  and 
replacing the fittings. I say this because QIC didnt  take the opportunity to inspect the 
bathroom furniture  to see if it could be salvaged and re-used and Mrs T could only hold on to 
the items  for a limited  time. And now there  is insufficient evidence  to argue that the items  
could have been re-used.  Im  aware  that Mrs T is only entitled to the cost of like for like 
replacements, but I dont think this should be investigated now, as QIC should  have  adopted 
a more reasonable approach initially. So I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is for QIC to settle  Mrs Ts claim by paying the following:
Ref: DRN37882603Full costs incurred by Mrs T to replace toilet,  sink, bath, flooring, joists and vanity 
unit/cabinets in her bathroom.  
Interest at 8% simple on the amount  due for the date Mrs T paid for it to the date QIC 
pays it. 
I also think QIC should pay Mrs T £500  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience 
shes experienced as a result of their unreasonable decision to decline her claim. I think 
£500 is reasonable because although  Mrs T had another bathroom, Ive noted that she says 
it was small and inconvenient for a family of 4 adults to use. And Ive also noted  Mrs T had 
some health  issues which  made  the situation  much  more difficult for her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im likely to uphold the complaint and decide that QIC Europe Ltd 
should pay
Full costs incurred by Mrs T to replace toilet,  sink, bath, flooring, joists and vanity 
unit/cabinets in her bathroom.  
Interest at 8% simple on the amount  due for the date Mrs T paid for it to the date QIC 
pays it. 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3788260