K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Simplyhealth Access wont pay her compensation claim under her 
dental insurance policy.
background
Miss D is the beneficiary of a dental insurance policy that her school  has with Simplyhealth.
She is a minor (under 18 years old) and is represented in her complaint to us by her mother. 
For ease of references Ill mainly refer to Miss D.
Unfortunately Miss D was hit in the face with a piece of sports equipment.  The evidence is 
she had damage  to her jaw and her front two teeth were hanging out of their sockets with 
the roots exposed. Both teeth were re-implanted by splint surgery.
Simplyhealth paid the claim for Miss Ds treatment and said it would continue  to pay towards 
her treatment relating  to the injury,  in line with the policy terms. But it wouldnt pay Miss Ds 
claim for the compensation for loss of teeth  as she hadnt completely lost her teeth  as the 
policy required. 
Simplyhealth said although  compensation wasnt payable  at the moment if Miss D has to 
have the affected  teeth  extracted in the future due to the injury it will pay the compensation 
and wont apply a time limit.
Miss D complained to us. She said the teeth were lost from their sockets for about four 
hours. As the policy  didnt say how long the teeth had to be lost Simplyhealth should pay 
compensation now. Shes been  very distressed by the incident and treatment.
Our investigator thought Simplyhealth had fairy declined the compensation claim at the 
moment.
Miss D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said her mother  asked 
Simplyhealth what complete loss of teeth  meant  and was told the teeth had to be lost from 
the socket, which is what happened to her. She also said her teeth are dead, she is waiting 
for them to go black  and has years of dental  treatment ahead. Her mother  said Simplyheatlh  
told her she would be paid so to have the goalposts changed is unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Simplyhealth has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. I think  
Simplyhealths decline of Miss Ds compensation claim is reasonable at the moment.
The policy says:
Cash compensation for loss of teeth
As an additional part of the dental  injury cover,  compensation  is payable  for complete 
loss of the insured childs adult teeth following a dental injury, up to £5,000  each 
year.
Ref: DRN33375272 £1,500  for the complete loss of a front tooth (incisor or canine)
Miss D says the policy doesnt  give a time for how long the teeth have to be lost, and hers 
were lost from the socket for four hours. But the policy  says compensation is payable when 
theres a complete loss of a tooth. I think its reasonable  for Simplyhealth to conclude  that 
the policy term doesnt apply in this case because Miss Ds teeth werent  lost totally  and 
permanently. Miss Ds teeth were re-implanted  and she currently  still has her teeth.
I havent seen  any evidence that Simplyhealth  told Miss Ds mother  it would pay 
compensation now. 
I have seen Simplyhealth's letter of 16 August 2018 which Miss D has highlighted. But the 
letter doesnt  say it will pay compensation just on the basis on the teeth being out of their 
socket for a few hours.  Even if Simplyhealth did wrongly tell Miss Ds mother it would pay 
compensation just on that basis it fully set out its position as to why it wouldnt pay now,  with 
additional information from its dentist, in its final response letter.
I havent seen  any medical evidence that Miss Ds teeth are dead. Simplyhealths  dentist 
says that unless the teeth have root fractures its not certain  the teeth will be lost. It looks  as 
if that be closely monitored by Miss Ds dentist in the future. Simplyhealth  accepts  its 
possible that Miss Ds teeth may have to be extracted  in the future. If that happens and the 
tooth loss is as a result of the injury it will reactivate her claim and pay the compensation. Its 
also confirmed it wouldnt apply any time limit to the compensation claim.
I dont doubt that the incident and treatment  Miss D had and may have to have is painful and 
distressing. But Simplyhealths decision to decline the compensation claim now is fair. 
Miss D doesnt currently meet the policy requirement for compensation to be paid. 
Simplyhealths offer to pay the claim if she does meet the requirement at any time in the 
future due to the injury is fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3337527