K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs H aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. Mrs H has told us she was led to believe  not taking the PPI would have a 
detrimental effect on her card application. FICL has told us the PPI was added to Mrs Hs 
card during  a phone call after she took out her card.  From the evidence  provided by FICL I 
can see that Mrs H didnt  choose to take PPI when she applied  for her card. I can also see 
that the PPI was added  to her card several  months after she applied  for it. So I think  its most 
likely that Mrs H did apply for the PPI over the phone sometime after she applied  for the card 
itself. So I think she would  have  known she didnt have to take the policy,  and she chose to 
have it, although  I can understand why she may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay and help from her family. But the PPI would have  paid 
out in addition to Mrs Hs sick pay, and for longer. And while Mrs Hs family would have 
wanted to help their ability  to would have been dependent  on their circumstances at the time, 
which could have changed. So I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Hs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN36386152Ive thought about everything Mrs H has has said - including that she had reason to claim but 
didnt. But I dont think this means she didnt want the policy  at the time it was sold to her.
Mrs H has also told us that a family  member  paid her card balance in full which  shows she 
had support if needed. But as Ive said above I dont  think  support from family could be 
guaranteed as individuals circumstances can change.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3638615