K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about unfair treatment by Landmark Mortgages Limited (trading as 
NRAM) in relation  to its handling of her mortgage  arrears.
background
Mrs R has a mortgage with NRAM taken out in 2003. There are two further  advances, taken 
out in 2005 and 2007. In total about £66,500  is outstanding, and is on a repayment basis on 
NRAMs standard variable  rate of interest. The monthly repayment is £494.02 per month,  not 
including any payment towards  the arrears. I understand Mrs R had been  paying a small 
amount towards  the arrears under a payment arrangement which ended  in October 2018.
Unfortunately, Mrs R has been in arrears  for several  years.  Shes had detailed discussions 
with NRAM about  what it can do to help her.
Mrs R is unhappy about the way NRAM has dealt  with this. She feels  NRAM has offered 
solutions to her which it has then withdrawn, and its refused to capitalise her arrears, even 
though shes maintained  payments for twelve months.
NRAM, on the other hand, says its explored all available  options,  but is concerned at the 
affordability of both short-term and long-term  solutions.
Unhappy with NRAMs response,  Mrs R brought her complaint to us. An investigator looked  
at it but didnt think it should be upheld.  She was satisfied NRAM had acted  fairly.
The case  has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive read everything  provided by Mrs R and NRAM, but Ive set out the detail of 
whats happened in rather less detail than has been  presented. No discourtesys intended  by 
that. Its a reflection of the informal  service  we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation  requires of 
me. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as MCOB)  
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. 
Under MCOB 13 NRAM is required  to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, 
especially if the problem  that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-
term and capable of being resolved.
For long-term difficulties, NRAM must  also look at other ways to help, such as transferring a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
Ref: DRN32278352Ive looked at whats happened in this case.  I see that NRAM has explored whether it would 
be appropriate to capitalise  arrears, or to allow Mrs R to pay interest-only for a short period. 
In both cases, after reviewing Mrs Rs income  and expenditure, it wasnt able to do this.
Mrs Rs income  and expenditure information  showed she had a shortfall  of over £150 per 
month. So capitalising the arrears and increasing the payment (to about £508.37 per month)  
would be unaffordable.
NRAM also considered  whether  a short-term interest-only concession  might help Mrs R. But, 
after considering this, NRAM also wasnt able to offer this. Thats  because, once any 
concession period ended,  the unpaid capital  would have to be repaid, and the monthly  
repayment would increase. So an interest-only  concession would only have been  
appropriate if Mrs Rs financial difficulties were  short-term. Sadly, they do not appear to be.
I fully appreciate this has been a very stressful time for Mrs R; her situation has been  very 
difficult, through circumstances beyond her control.  But overall I think  NRAM has carefully 
considered which options are available, and has also been mindful of its obligation to act as 
a responsible lender. Because the only options would be unaffordable,  I dont think NRAM 
has done anything  wrong.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for NRAM to suggest there might be 
options for her, and then to decide  it couldnt  help her after all. But I dont think  NRAM gave 
Mrs R false hope  it always  made clear that it would need to assess affordability before 
being able to put any long-term or short-term solution in place.
NRAM is willing to consider further payment  arrangements  with Mrs R, so I would urge her to 
keep in contact  with it and to respond promptly to requests for information about  her 
situation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3227835