K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold  them a
regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy on two separate occasions  when they 
were taking out mortgages.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Nationwide  in 1991. At the same time they were sold
a PPI policy. The policy covered both Mr and Mrs A and a successful claim wouldve 
covered their mortgage payments in the event  either  were  too sick to work or became 
unemployed for up to 24 months, after a waiting period of 90 days.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs As complaint  should be upheld because she didnt think
Nationwide had made the 90 day waiting  period  clear and thought had it done so Mr and Mrs
A wouldnt have agreed to take the policy.
Nationwide disagreed with this opinion.  
The second  policy  was taken out in 2004 when Mr and Mrs A were  taking  out a new 
mortgage as they were  moving home. This policy covered Mr A only and was free for the 
first 12 months. It was cancelled  within the 12 month  period.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this part of Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Thats 
because, as Mr and Mrs A didnt  pay anything towards this policy before it was cancelled,  
theyd suffered no financial loss.
Mr and Mrs As complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr and Mrs As case.
Im not upholding the complaint Mr and Mrs A made  about the PPI they bought in 2004,  for 
the same  reasons our adjudicator gave. In summary  this is because, from what  Ive seen, 
they didnt make any payments for this cover before it was cancelled. So theres no financial 
loss.
I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about the PPI bought  in 1991.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it didnt  have to check  if the policy
was right for them. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed  to
decide if the PPI was right for them.  Based on what Ive seen so far I dont think Nationwide
did this.
I say this because  the PPI had a 90 day waiting period   meaning neither Mr nor Mrs A 
could make a claim if either  was unemployed or too sick to work for the first three
months. Then, upon a successful claim, the benefit wouldve been backdated to the 61st
day. So if either Mr or Mrs A was off work for 89 days  no benefit wouldve  been due at all.
Ref: DRN33195882Nationwide says that as part of its process  Mr and Mrs A wouldve been given a PPI leaflet
which included information about  the 90 day deferment  period.  I dont  know  if they actually
received or even  read this leaflet but even if they had  after viewing the sort of leaflet in use 
at the time  I dont think the information about  the waiting period was sufficiently prominent  
to draw Mr and Mrs As attention to this term.
And I think this piece of information wouldve mattered, because Mr and Mrs A say they had 
no work related  sickness benefits, nor did they have any savings  to tide them over whilst 
waiting for the PPI to pay out. So I think if either Mr or Mrs A was unable  to work they 
wouldve struggled to keep up their mortgage  repayments for the initial  three months before 
they were able to make  a claim. And I think its more likely than not that they wouldve 
wanted to be able to make  a claim on the PPI policy much  sooner than 90 days  particularly 
as they had such limited  other ways of making their repayments.
Ive taken into account what Nationwide has said about the arrears management measures it 
would have offered  Mr and Mrs A if they were  struggling to make their repayments  during the 
90 day waiting period. But these measures are informal and are at the discretion  of 
Nationwide, so theres no guarantee that this type of help wouldve been offered or available  
when Mr and Mrs A may have needed it.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs A wouldve  bought the policy if Nationwide  had made  this 90
day waiting period clear  and I think Mr and Mrs A have lost out because of what  Nationwide
did wrong.
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs A in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out
PPI. The policy was cancelled some time ago, so Nationwide  should:
 Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
 Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 Mr and Mrs A made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy,  so Nationwide can take off
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr and
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I order Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr and Mrs A compensation in accordance  with the calculation of redress  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3319588