K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was misrepresented. He wants  
compensation for the loss in value.
background
Mr A is represented in this complaint by a family  member but for ease  of reading Ill refer 
mostly to him.
Mr A says he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as S in December 2018. He 
states that he purchased the vehicle  believing it had one previous  private keeper. And that 
he wasnt told it had previously been  used as a taxi. Mr A says that when he came to sell it 
the company which had made an offer to purchase  the vehicle reduced its offer price by 
£5,000 when it discovered its previous  use as a taxi.
MotoNovo said that before agreeing to the finance  it had checked  the valuation  of the vehicle 
via an HPI check.  This hadnt  shown the vehicle was previously used as a taxi. It said it 
found that there wasnt a huge discrepancy between the HPI valuation  and the cash  price 
charged to Mr A. It stated  that valuation would typically depend upon age, mileage and 
condition of a vehicle. And that as taxis  are regularly serviced this wouldnt have  a negative 
impact on the price.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 May 2020. I indicated that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. Since then Ive had a reply from MotoNovo accepting  the 
decision. Mr A has also replied, through his representative, stating that he doesnt agree with 
the provisional decision. And that he still feels that important information  about the vehicle 
had been withheld  at the time of supply.  I thank the parties for their responses.  Ive not been 
provided with any new information so I see no need  to alter my provisional decision.  This is 
largely repeated  in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A had a disappointing experience regarding this vehicle. And I can 
understand hed be concerned if he thought hed been misled.
Mr As complaint is about an alleged misrepresentation of the vehicle in the negotiations 
prior to the signing of the hire purchase agreement and his acquisition of the vehicle. I 
should explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And relevant 
law here incudes  section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Ive also considered 
the Consumer  Protection from Unfair  Trading Regulations of 2008  (CPUTR).
In summary,  the CRA says that where  theres been  a misrepresentation of goods by the 
retailer and/or credit  broker (here thats  S) the supplier of finance (MotoNovo) can also be 
held responsible.
Ref: DRN32907052A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer into entering  into 
an agreement and suffering a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. Its also possible in 
very limited situations for a misrepresentation to occur as a result of an omission. For 
example, that might  occur in the case of a half truth  where  the statement made was correct 
- as far as it went. But it didnt reveal  the true state  of affairs.
Where information is unclear or incomplete or facts  are in dispute  - as is the case  here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Put simply, Mr As complaint is that S didnt tell him that the vehicle had previously been 
used as a taxi. And that as a consequence  of this omission he paid more  for the vehicle than 
wouldve been the case if hed been  aware  of this fact. He said he suffered a corresponding 
loss when he re-sold the vehicle.
Mr A has made reference to the CPUTR. In brief,  these regulations prohibit unfair trading 
practices. And they include a requirement that the supplier should provide the purchaser with 
sufficient information  to enable an informed decision to be made about whether to proceed 
and acquire goods. Mr A suggests  he wasnt given  this information.
Ive not been provided with information  which  conclusively shows  this vehicle had been used 
as a taxi prior to supply to Mr A. Mr As assertion is largely based  on having been  told by a 
third party dealer that this was the case. Our investigator also made an inference after 
viewing its MOT history  that the vehicle  probably  had been  used  as a taxi. This history 
showed that the vehicle  had been subject  of an annual MOT following its first year of 
registration in 2016. Vehicles for personal  use arent usually required to pass an MOT for 
three years. But taxis and private hire vehicles must do so each year after registration.
The vehicle here had been  subject  to two MOT tests prior to supply to Mr A. And at that time 
it was about two and a half years  old. The odometer  reading was around 74,000 miles. This 
is approximately three times  the figure  wed typically think was average for ordinary domestic 
use. On a balance of probabilities I conclude the vehicle had been used as a taxi prior to 
supply to Mr A.
In order for me to say that S had misrepresented the vehicle Id have to find that it was under 
an obligation  to disclose this information to Mr A. And that it hadnt done so either  
intentionally or negligently.
Theres nothing to show that S knew for what purpose the vehicle had previously been used. 
Ive seen details  of an HPI check carried out by MotoNovo  at the time of the finance 
application. And Ive seen  a sales invoice relating to the price S paid for the vehicle. Neither 
document shows the vehicle was previously used  as a taxi. The price  paid by S was not 
inconsistent with recognised industry price guides.  And the HPI check valuation was 
consistent with the price  paid by Mr A. 
Ref: DRN32907053Ive seen no information that shows Mr A enquired about any aspect of the vehicles 
previous history other  than the record  of previous ownership. In his original complaint he 
mentioned he believed it had one previous private keeper. Its my understanding that this is 
true. The mileage was also clearly  on display. I accept that the MOT history may have 
provided further information which  mightve  indicated the vehicle had probably  been used as 
a taxi. But given  the mileage and that Mr A could see the outward condition  of the vehicle Id 
have thought he had enough  information on which to make  an informed decision. And if he 
was concerned at how the mileage had been  compiled the MOT history of a vehicle is 
publicly available  and easily accessible. So I doubt if the additional  information  wouldve 
altered Mr As decision to purchase the vehicle.  On a balance of probabilities  Im not 
persuaded that the vehicle was misrepresented.
Usually that would be sufficient to resolve  this complaint. But in order  to cover all angles  Ive 
gone on to consider what my decision wouldve been if Id have thought the vehicle  had 
been misrepresented.
Ive reached the conclusion  that I wouldnt be awarding the compensation which Mr A seeks. 
This is the difference between  what he says he wouldve been able to sell the vehicle for (if it 
hadnt been a taxi) and the actual price he obtained. Ill explain why.
Mr A obtained price valuations from two online  businesses which purchase vehicles. Both 
initially gave  quotes  which seem to be based  on the vehicle having been used solely for 
private purposes. But those businesses gave reduced quotes after theyd seemingly decided 
the vehicle had probably been used for commercial reasons. I dont consider either of the 
businesses provides a reliable  basis  for what might reasonably be viewed as a fair valuation.  
The initial valuations are provided without any sight or inspection  of the vehicle. And rely on 
information provided by the vendor as to its general  condition. So its more probable than not 
that once a vehicle is inspected there will be a price adjustment. Thats what  happened here.
Of more importance, Ive seen information which wasnt available to our investigator  at the 
time he issued his view letter. MotoNovo  has supplied an email  from S stating that it (S) had 
made an offer to Mr A to buy back the vehicle. It said that it had offered £24,000. But that 
Mr A had told it that hed already accepted a higher offer. S said it hadnt heard  anything 
more about the matter  until this complaint arose.  Mr A explained that hed sold the vehicle 
before the phone call with S. But he hasnt explained why, if hed been made a higher offer, 
he apparently sold it for much less. 
Ive been giving conflicting information about  the price received  when Mr A sold the vehicle. 
In the original complaint Mr A stated  the value of the vehicle was reduced - due to its 
previous use as a taxi - by around £5,000. Yet in the response  to the provisional decision its 
mentioned by Mr As representative that the vehicle was sold for less than half the original  
purchase price (£29,995) paid by Mr A. This would impute a much  greater  loss. As Ive not 
seen documentation  confirming the actual price  received when Mr A sold the vehicle Im 
unable to say which, if either, of these figures  is accurate.
Where a consumer is claiming  a loss has been caused by a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract theres a duty on the consumer to make reasonable efforts to mitigate any loss he 
incurs.
Ref: DRN32907054Mr A first complained to MotoNovo on 27 March 2019. MotoNovo was entitled to up to eight 
weeks to respond to the complaint. But before it could issue  its final response letter (this was 
issued on 13 May 2019)  Mr A had sold the vehicle. Mr As representative has suggested this 
was done to prevent any further  devaluation. But I dont think that a few weeks extra delay 
was likely to have any material effect  on the valuation.
The sale meant that MotoNovo was deprived of the opportunity to see if it could resolve  the 
complaint to Mr As satisfaction. No doubt this would have included  making  enquires  of S to 
see if it was able to obtain a better price offer for the vehicle. Had this occurred its more 
probable than not that a price in the region of S offer would have been obtained.
There was no reasonable attempt made by Mr A to mitigate any loss that might arise  from 
the sale of the vehicle.  He went ahead with the sale whilst his complaint with MotoNovo was
still being investigated within the usual  time period for replies  reasonable attempts to 
mitigate loss.
In summary,  Im not satisfied there was any misrepresentation of the vehicle. In my opinion, 
it also wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect MotoNovo  to make good any price 
difference which mightve arisen as a consequence  of the vehicle  being  sold before it 
reasonably had time to respond  to the complaint. And that opinion is confirmed by the 
absence of any reasonable  effort to mitigate any loss.
I understand that Mr A will be disappointed  by my final decision but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3290705