K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  Allianz Insurance Plcs handling  of their Buildings Insurance  
claim.
All references to Allianz also include their agents.
background
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point  that has been  made.
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim on their policy in January 2018 for subsidence at their property. 
Initial investigations were  carried out by Allianz to inspect the drains as this was believed to 
be the source of the issues that were  causing the subsidence. Repairs to the drain were 
carried out in June 2018, meaning the claim  then progressed to addressing repairing the 
damage caused by the subsidence.  
A contractor  was appointed by Allianz  and they produced a schedule  of the work needed for 
the repairs in June 2018. Allianz had some  queries  with the proposed work, so they went  
back to clarify them with the contractor. The scope of works  was then agreed, but Mr and 
Mrs D flagged to Allianz  that further  damage had developed and provided photographs of 
this for Allianz to consider.
Allianz felt they were  still ready to proceed  with the repairs and said if when on site, the 
contractors felt amendments needed  to be made, they could come back to Allianz to review 
and amend the schedule. The repairs were scheduled to begin in December 2018, but when 
the contractors attended  they didnt start work  and submitted  a new schedule  of work 
needed to Allianz.
Around this time Mr and Mrs D said their policy was due for renewal but Allianz said they 
would be unable to insure them going  forward  as they were  no longer offering this type of 
insurance. Mr and Mrs D took out insurance elsewhere and said their premiums increased  
significantly as a result of having an outstanding subsidence claim.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with the lack of progress of their claim so they raised  a 
complaint. Allianz  provided a final response to Mr and Mrs D in February 2019. Allianz 
agreed there  had been delays in progressing Mr and Mrs Ds claim due to ongoing debate 
between them and their contractor over the scope of work  needed.  They offered 
Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience  caused.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with Allianzs  response, so they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. She said the amount of 
compensation offered by Allianz was fair in the circumstances of this complaint.  But she 
didnt think it was fair that as Allianz withdrew  from offering domestic  home insurance before 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy renewed, they should be left with more  expensive cover whilst they 
had an ongoing  subsidence claim. She said Allianz should refund the difference between 
what Mr and Mrs D paid in 2018 and 2019,  and what they wouldve  paid if Allianz had 
continued to offer them cover.
Ref: DRN33009872Allianz didnt agree  it would be reasonable for them to refund Mr and Mrs D the premiums.
Mr and Mrs D requested  the complaint be put to an ombudsman for a final decision.
The complaint then passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 22 July 2020. In my provisional findings  I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have made a number of detailed points. I want  to assure  them Ive considered 
all of them,  but Im going  to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects  the informal  nature of our 
service and my role in it. This decision focuses on events up to Allianzs final response  to 
Mr and Mrs D in February 2019.
Allianz accepted  there were some  delays due to an ongoing dispute regarding  the scope  of 
works  which they estimated at around  two months.  The scope of works  was originally 
provided by the contractors around  June 2018.  Allianz had some  queries on the scope of 
works and after further investigation, asked the contractors to amend this in August 2018. 
Allianz chased the contractors for a response, but the scope of works  wasnt approved until 
October 2018  and a start date for the work to begin wasnt provided to Mr and Mrs D until 
November 2018.  Its not unreasonable for Allianz  to query the scope of works  with its 
contractors but when the contractors didnt respond  to Allianz  I wouldve expected Allianz to 
take other steps  to progress Mr and Mrs Ds claim such as using another contractor, but I 
cant see they did this. So I do agree  that on this point there was around  a two month delay.
But I also think there were further  avoidable delays. In October 2018 Mr and Mrs D made 
Allianz aware the damage to their property had increased  and provided  photos. I can see 
there was some dispute between Allianz and Mr and Mrs D about whether the further 
damage required repair or further  monitoring, but I can see Allianz  also later told Mr and 
Mrs D the damage could be reported  by the contractors when on site. 
When the contractors  attended the site In December 2018,  they didnt think  the scope of 
works was adequate for the damage noted  so work didnt begin. When  the contractor 
provided a new scope of works, it had increased  significantly, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Allianz to query this  but as Allianz were already aware there could be 
further work  added I think this shouldve been investigated and agreed before the 
contractors came to start work. At the time Allianz  issued  their final response  to Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint in February 2019, the scope  of works still hadnt  been agreed  around  
four months after they made Allianz aware  of further issues.  Because of this I dont think the 
amount of compensation Allianz has offered is reasonable  and further compensation Is 
due.  Ill explain my thoughts on the appropriate  level of compensation at the end of my 
findings. 
Ref: DRN33009873I can see in November 2018 Mr and Mrs D called Allianz to ask whether they would continue 
to cover them  as their policy was due for renewal  in December  2018.  I can also see they 
made Allianz  aware of the issues  they experienced with insuring their property in an email in 
December 2018   including that they had suffered a significant increase in premiums  and 
expected to be compensated for this by Allianz. But I cant see that Allianz ever acted upon  
this or had further conversations with them about this. So I think  Allianz needs to do more  to 
put things right and Ive set out what I think they should do below.
ABI guidance  on continuation of cover following subsidence claims established a principle 
that insurers who deal with subsidence claims should usually seek to offer continued cover  
to their policyholder.  This is for a number of reasons.  Of most  relevance here is the aim to 
avoid policyholders being left to search the market as a new customer,  with a recent or on-
going subsidence to declare  which is likely to make them a substantially  greater  risk to the 
majority of insurers.
Allianz withdrew from the domestic building insurance market. But I dont think  that 
outweighs the ABI guidance  or means it would be fair for Mr and Mrs D to lose out as a 
result.
I understand Allianz continued to offer other types of buildings  insurance. So it would have 
been possible for Allianz to continue to offer Mr and Mrs D cover, including  subsidence. 
Alternatively, Allianz could have arranged  for another insurer  to effectively pick up where 
they left off and offer a policy to Mr and Mrs D which treated them  like an existing customer. 
Either option would have been in the spirit of the ABI guidance.  If Allianz would be prepared  
to do either  of these  things to help put the situation  right for Mr and Mrs D, they should let 
me know in response  to this provisional  decision.
As Allianz  didnt offer a policy  or make any arrangement for Mr and Mrs D, I think its 
reasonable Allianz refund the difference between what Mr and Mrs D paid in 2018  and 2019  
and what they would  have paid had Allianz  continued to offer cover. 
Our Investigator  welcomed Allianz to tell us what they think  their premium  would have been 
had they continued to offer cover. But they were unable to provide this. So Ill take a 
pragmatic approach to assuming what the premium would have been.
I think its reasonable the premium wouldve likely  increased by around  5% in 2018  and 
another in 2019. So Allianz will need  to refund the difference in premiums  Mr and Mrs D paid 
with the 5% increase applied. Unless Allianz offers a policy or arranges one as outlined  
above, theres still likely to be a difference in premium  for the next three years,  so I think its 
reasonable Allianz apply the same  principle and cover the difference  in premium  during that 
time.
Mr and Mrs D should have the benefit  of subsidence  cover. Unless  Allianz  is prepared  to 
provide or arrange that cover, Mr and Mrs D are entitled to find a policy  which offers  that 
cover. That will likely  increase the cost of their policy further and Allianz will have  to take that 
into account when  refunding the difference in premium I explained above.
Considering what  Ive set out above I think its reasonable Allianz pay Mr and Mrs D a total 
of £650 compensation. I think this fairly reflects the stress and inconvenience theyve been 
caused taking  into consideration  the delays, what Mr and Mrs D have said about  the stress  
the ongoing situation with their claim has caused and trying to obtain a new insurance policy 
with an existing subsidence claim.
Ref: DRN33009874Mr and Mrs D agreed  with my findings.
Allianz said they would like to provide further comments  in response to some of my findings. 
But they havent done so.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been provided for me to consider. My 
decision and reasoning remain the same  as I explained in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
To put things right I direct  Allianz Insurance Plc to:
-Pay Mr and Mrs D £650 compensation
-Refund the difference in premiums  Mr and Mrs D paid in 2018 and 2019 with the 5% 
increase applied
-Offer  a policy or arrange one as outlined  in my findings or apply the same  principle of 
a 5% increase  and cover the difference in premiums for the next three  years
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 October  2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3300987