K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma,  carried out a hard 
credit search when she applied for a loan. Mrs P says Satsuma should  only have carried  out 
a soft search. 
background
Mrs P applied for a loan with Satsuma, having been  directed to it by a broker website. The 
loan wasnt approved by Satsuma. Mrs P contacted Satsuma  to say she wasnt  happy  it had 
recorded a hard search on her credit  history because the broker  site hadnt said this would 
happen.
Satsuma responded  as follows:
I can confirm, when you apply for a loan via a broker,  the broker  conducts a soft credit 
check, which is a broad check on your credit file that does not leave a footprint. However, 
this does not fully take into account all the information on your credit file; only a small portion  
of the information on this.
The broker  then matches you to lenders whose criteria you may potentially  meet,  and 
redirects you to their websites where  you can perform a full application.
When you make a full application with Satsuma  we will carry out a hard credit check, which 
takes into account all the information  on your credit file and is the best way of assessing  an 
applicant.
An adjudicator considered  Mrs Ps complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. Mrs P didnt 
agree  she thought the application process was unclear and unfair, particularly because the 
information she saw suggested there would be no effect on her credit history.  As no 
agreement was reached, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
I need to start by explaining to Mrs P that I cant hold Satsuma responsible for any 
information provided by the broker. If Mrs P feels that the broker website misled  her in any 
way, shell  need  to take that up with the broker directly.
Ive looked at Satsumas website and I dont think it gives  any guarantees that it can approve  
a loan without  a full credit history check.  I can see that Satsuma offers  a service which gives 
an indication  of whether an applicant is likely to be accepted for a loan by using a soft 
search. But to proceed with a full application,  Satsuma  carries out a full credit  history search. 
I note that this information is available on Satsumas website.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to expect a responsible lender to not carry out a full 
credit search before lending  Satsuma would  arguably have been acting irresponsibly had it 
not carried out that search. 
Ref: DRN35332082Even if Satsuma had made it clearer to Mrs P that it would carry out a hard search, Im not 
persuaded that, having been told it was likely  the loan would be approved, Mrs P wouldnt 
have applied  for the loan. It appears  she was interested  in borrowing the money, so I think 
its likely  she wouldve  proceeded  to make her application.
The relevant  rules for reporting information  to credit reference agencies require that the 
information reported be complete and accurate. As Mrs P proceeded to make  a full 
application with Satsuma, its reasonable that Satsuma reported this to the relevant 
agencies. And it follows  that I cant fairly ask it to remove the information it has reported.
I know this outcome will disappoint Mrs P  but I am not able to uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint against Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 February  2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3533208