K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says LGT Vestra US 
Limited (Vestra) removed money  from two structured products he held in the SIPP.  Mr P 
says these couldnt reduce in value without someone withdrawing money from them.  
background
Mr P previously held a SIPP. The investments within this were held in a number of separate 
portfolios. Among the investments within the SIPP were two structured products - Barclays  
Regular Income Bonds.  Mr P had taken  these out in April 2010  as a result  of advice from his 
then financial adviser.  £5,875  was invested in one plan and £31,284 in the other one.
In 2014, Mr P agreed to transfer  his pension into a new SIPP  with a different provider on an 
in-specie basis. He engaged  Vestra  to act as his investment manager for his pension. But 
Vestra confirmed  that the structured products would be held outside  the portfolio it would 
manage until they matured.
Mr P complained to Vestra in May 2017.  He said his structured  plans were  worth £45,868.64 
when they were transferred between the two pension providers, but only £40,610.81 of the 
matured plans was moved to his main portfolio. Therefore, money had been taken out of his 
structured products.
Vestra didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt have management authority for the 
structured products within the SIPP.  These  were held directly by the SIPP provider and 
remained outside the Vestra portfolio until after the plans  matured.  Mr P remained 
dissatisfied and referred  the complaint to us. 
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ps complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He said no 
encashment had been made from the structured products and Mr P had received back  the 
sums hed originally invested when the plans matured. The income payments made from the 
bonds every  year were  separate  from the structured products.  While  the cash  paid out was 
ring fenced in separate portfolios within the previous SIPP,  following the transfer to the new 
provider the cash  was consolidated into the main pension bank account.
Mr P disagreed. He said the structured products had both cash and investment elements. 
While he wasnt  sure what the investment figures  and maturity  values were meant to mean, 
he thought they were  irrelevant in any event. Hed already  provided  copies of the valuations 
dated October 2014 from the previous SIPP provider for the structured products. These 
valuations have never been  disputed  previously by Vestra. 
The complaint was reviewed by another adjudicator,  but he also didnt think it should  
succeed. He said that while the income bonds had capital protection at maturity, this wasnt  
the case during  their terms.  If sold on the secondary  market, the bonds could be worth  less 
than the capital invested. He said Mr P had received back  his original capital when the plans 
matured in 2016, and had also received the income  the bonds had paid out. So he hadnt 
suffered a loss. 
Mr P continued to disagree with the adjudicators view, and thought some of the figures 
referred to were incorrect. He highlighted  a £10,000  transfer to the Vestra portfolio made 
from the bank account  in his previous SIPP  in October 2014.  He said part of the payment 
was from cash taken  from the structured plans.
Ref: DRN38675292As the matter remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr P thinks that the adjudicator has failed to answer  a number of questions hes 
raised, and has asked for these to be addressed in the final decision. I should  clarify that my 
role is to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  he referred to us  that 
Vestra removed  money  from his structured products. But I think the comments  I make below 
should address  some  of the points  hes made.
As noted above,  Mr P transferred his pension to the new SIPP on an in-specie  basis.  I think  
its important to clarify what this means. The various  investments  Mr P held in his existing 
pension were transferred  directly over to the new provider. There was no buying  or selling of 
investments involved  in the process. And there  was no movement of money between  the 
providers, apart from any cash which was held in the existing  plan. His existing investments 
were simply held by the new SIPP provider as trustee of Mr Ps pension.  
This was confirmed in an email Vestra  sent Mr P in October 2014. It noted  that the transfer 
was proceeding,  but confirmed that as this was in-specie, Mr P hadnt been out of the 
market. This is because  he remained invested  in the various  funds he held throughout the 
process. This fact is particularly relevant to Mr Ps complaint  about  the structured products. 
I note Mr P has said that the structured products would increase by the same  rate of interest 
each year and were not subject to the fluctuations  of the stock market.  They  made small 
increments each year of around  3% and it was impossible for them to decrease in value. The 
only way this could  happen was if money was removed. Despite this, the investments had 
lost money when transferred into his main portfolio in 2016. However, I think Mr Ps 
comments indicate a misunderstanding of how these bonds  operated. 
The documentation  for the bonds explained them as follows:
The Regular Income Bond is designed to bridge the gap between low riskIlow return  
deposits and the high riskIhigh return investments. Investors in the Regular Income  Bond  
enjoy a competitive  income rate but need  to accept the risk that their capital may not be 
repaid in full. The Plan is available with two options  with income paid either  monthly or 
annually. The options are explained  fully in this brochure together  with the risk associated  
with this investment.
The Regular Income Bond is a six-year investment where investors receive a regular 
income. Monthly or annual income  options are available. Repayment of your initial  capital at 
the end of the term is subject to the performance of the FTSE 100 Index (the Index) during 
the term.
You can lose all of your  capital  when you invest  in this Plan [original emphasis]. If the 
level of the Index at the close of business on any day during the term, is at a level lower  than 
50% of its level on 14 May 2010 (the Initial Index Level), and the closing level of the Index 
at maturity (the Final  Index Level) is below the Initial  Index Level, your capital repayment  
Ref: DRN38675293will be reduced by the percentage  amount by which the Final  Index Level  is lower  than the 
Initial Index Level.
You can instruct us to sell the Investment  in your Plan before maturity but, if you do, then 
you may get back less than you invested, particularly if you withdraw in the early  years of the 
investment.
So contrary  to what Mr P has said,  the bonds could  lose money and return less than the 
capital invested  if the relevant stock market  index had fallen by the time they matured. 
Further, the bonds were not intended  to provide growth. Mr P invested  in the annual income 
version of the bond. This meant that six payments  were made from the bonds into his SIPP.  
But once these payments were  made,  they were no longer part of the structured products. 
This money  simply  formed  part of the cash held in his SIPP. To illustrate this point, if Mr P 
had held the bonds directly, and not through his pension, any income payments would have 
been paid into his bank account to be used as he wished.  
I should also add that the bonds didnt contain  cash, as Mr P has suggested.  Instead,  there  
was a contractual obligation for Barclays to pay a set income amount each year. This was 
payable however the underlying assets  within the bond were performing.  Once  paid out, the 
income couldnt be reinvested  in the bond to increase its value.  
The Barclays brochure explained that the plan should only be considered  if the funds could 
be invested for the full six-year term. While  it was possible to withdraw the capital  before  
maturity, this could  only be achieved by full cancellation of the bond and partial withdrawals  
were not permitted. The amount of capital repaid would be what Barclays  deemed  to be the 
market value of the underlying investment on the day it processed the request. The 
documentation warned that this was likely to be less than the full amount originally invested.  
I note Mr P has referred to a sum of £50,409 which he says was transferred to Vestra from 
the structured products  in 2014.  He says there  was a deficit  of £9,798 when the bonds 
matured. But this isnt correct. For the reasons Ive explained,  as the plans were  transferred 
in-specie no money changed hands. Further, as Mr P acknowledges, the structured products 
werent part of the pension  portfolio managed by Vestra. It seems that Mr P believes his loss 
came about  because the maturity values for the two bonds were less than this. But this is not 
the case. 
Although the previous SIPP provider set out values for the two bonds at the date of the 
transfer, it seems this was based on a unit price of the units held within the bonds. But the 
units werent readily tradeable compared with if they were held in another product, such  as a 
unit trust.  Instead, as explained above,  the value quoted may or may not have been the 
same as the market value  Barclays would ascribe to the bonds if it received a cancellation  
request. As such, it was just a nominal value given  by the SIPP  provider. And to repeat the 
point again, this nominal value wasnt passed over to either  the new SIPP  provider or Vestra 
 the bonds were just included among the assets held in Mr Ps new SIPP.  I therefore dont 
think its correct for Mr P to use the value quoted by the previous SIPP provider as a basis 
for claiming  he has made a loss. 
In the event, both bonds continued to their maturity dates. Because  the FTSE 100 index 
hadnt fallen over the term the bonds were held, the full sums originally invested were paid 
into the SIPP in July 2016. In addition, the SIPP had received income payments of £363.44 
and £1935.29 respectively each year for the six years the bonds  were in force. 
Ref: DRN38675294In the circumstances, Im satisfied the bonds  operated as intended  at the outset.  They paid 
out the designated  level of income and returned  the full amount  of capital invested. There 
were no circumstances  in which the bonds  were intended to pay out more  than this.  
Mr P has referred to a sum of £10,000, which was passed to Vestra  by the SIPP provider in 
October 2014. But I dont  agree with his view this proves his case. Mr P had agreed that 
Vestra should manage his pension fund apart from the structured product. So it appears hed 
given Vestra authority  to access any other  monies  within his SIPP. Ive not seen evidence he 
placed any other restrictions on Vestra, such  as stating it couldnt touch any cash held in his 
SIPP. If Mr P has any concerns about  how Vestra operated the mandate  it was given, this 
will have to be the subject  of a separate complaint. 
I would add that although the two structured products  were  held in Mr Ps SIPP,  it was 
nonetheless Barclays  who remained  responsible  for how they were  administered and were 
custodians of the money hed invested.  As such,  if Barclays allowed money to be withdrawn 
from the bonds without Mr Ps authority,  as he has suggested, this is a matter Mr P should 
take up with Barclays.  However, as Ive noted above, Ive not seen evidence  of any 
deductions. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I am unable to find that Mr P has suffered a loss in 
respect of the two structured products he held in his SIPP. And Ive not seen  evidence  to 
support his claim that Vestra removed money  from these investments. Overall,  I can find no 
basis on which to uphold  his complaint.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and I make  no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3867529