K821x#15complaint
Mrs T, who is represented by her financial adviser, complains about the level of service she 
has received from Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
background
Alliance Trust  received a withdrawal request  from Mrs T on 5 March 2018 seeking her 
pension commencement  lump sum of £241,000. The request was completed on 29 March 
2018. During the process Mrs T and her representative made several  calls to Alliance Trust 
and were provided with incorrect  information  on a number of occasions.
Mrs T made two attempts to cash cheques  she had received from her scheme 
administrators, which presumed the money  from Alliance Trust was in the bank account. 
However, as the payment had not been made by Alliance Trust, both cheques bounced. On 
both occasions,  she had been mis-informed by Alliance  Trust that the money had indeed 
been paid.
Mrs T complained to Alliance Trust as she was unhappy with the service  she had received. 
Alliance Trust  upheld  her complaint and offered to pay her £200 for the loss of interest  on 
the £241,000 she was attempting to withdraw,  £100  for the distress  and inconvenience the 
matter had caused her and a further £50 to cover her costs. Mrs T said that this was part of 
a wider transaction and the result  was that she had been denied access  to a total of 
£345,000.
She said she believed  she should be paid £500  to settle the matter,  but Alliance  Trust stated 
they would  be willing to offer her a further £50, bringing the total to £400. Mrs T did not feel 
that was sufficient and brought  the complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He felt the 
£200 Alliance  Trust  paid for the loss of interest  was fair and reasonable. However,  he did not 
feel the further £200 it offered to pay for the distress and inconvenience  was fair. He said 
Alliance had made a number of errors  and then followed these up with further errors, when 
attempting to correct  the initial mistake.
Further, he stated that Mrs T had to visit the bank on two occasions and her cheque  
bounced following  the mis-information she had been given by Alliance Trust. It had said the 
process Mrs T attempted  to complete usually lasts three working days.  However, Mrs T had 
to wait for over three weeks for her withdrawal request to be processed.  As a result,  the 
adjudicator felt Alliance  Trust should pay Mrs T £500 for distress  and inconvenience.
Alliance Trust  did not agree. It said that a payment of £500 for distress and inconvenience 
was excessive. It said that she had called it only once and the issue  had been dealt with by 
her financial  adviser. It also felt that the scheme administrator had let Mrs T down by 
advising her to cash a cheque for which the funds hadnt cleared. It suggested  it pay her 
£300 compensation plus £200 for loss of interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39262142It is accepted by all that Alliance Trust made  a number of errors and misled Mrs T and her 
adviser during  a process which should  have a take a few days, but which  lasted a month.  It 
also seems to be agreed that the offer of £200  to cover lost interest  is reasonable.
That leaves us with the matter of compensation for the trouble and upset caused  to Mrs T as 
a result of the errors. The business has suggested that the figure  of £500 suggested by the 
adjudicator is not in line with other  similar  cases. Mrs T has expressed surprise  that Alliance 
Trust had other cases where it had made  so many mistakes and in which  it had misled the 
client on several occasions. I must admit I share her view. 
I can see that a smaller  sum of compensation would  be merited if there  had been  one or 
maybe two mistakes and that Mrs T or her adviser  hadnt been misinformed as to what was 
happening. However, this seems  to be one of those  situations where the original error was 
compounded and the business took some  time to get it under control.
I also note that the adviser was refused a call back at the end of March  to confirm  the 
payment had been made. I find this very surprising given the errors that had been  made  up 
to this point. It seems that the call handler hadnt grasped the seriousness of the situation  
and nobody in the business  had decided to take responsibility for the transfer after the initial 
few errors  occurred.
I also have to bear in mind the amount of money at stake and the concern Mrs T would have 
felt as to what had happened to it. I can believe that would have been most  stressful. I would 
add that the fact that the chase up calls were made  by the adviser rather than Mrs T to be of 
little or no significance. Nor do I think that anything done by the scheme administrator 
absolves Alliance  Trust for its failures.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Alliance Trust Savings Limited to 
lay Mrs T £200 to cover lost interest and £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926214