K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same  time Mrs N took out 
the card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs N says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 23 May 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside  a 
store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs N took out the card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs N says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL  disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN30704082my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the store  card application  form Mrs N saw and signed. In this there is a section  for 
PPI where Mrs N signed to agree to the cover.  But Ive not seen  anything in this form which  suggests 
Mrs N had to take out the cover or that she wouldnt  be able to take out the store card without it. So I 
think Mrs N wouldve known she couldve left this section  blank if she didnt  want the PPI. Mrs N then 
signed at the bottom of this application form  so I think this reflected what  she wanted at the time.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N so it didnt have to check  if the policy was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs N got the information  she needed to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. And 
Mrs N says she was suffering from a medical condition at the time of sale. Having reviewed  the terms 
of the policy it appears Mrs N wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy for this pre-existing 
condition. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that they felt Mrs N would not have taken  
out the policy  had FICL made  this exclusion clear to her.
But thinking  about what shes told us about her condition and the fact that she was taking  regular 
medication to keep her condition under control, I think its unlikely Mrs N would have thought  this 
would be the main  reason she might have needed to claim on the policy.
Especially since she told us she had never had time off for this condition  in this past. So I think she 
wouldve wanted this policy to cover her for more  serious,  unexpected  conditions  and I dont think  
better information about the exclusions around pre-existing medical conditions  wouldve put her off 
taking out the PPI.
And based on everything else Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so I think  it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would have  
put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Ns outstanding  monthly balance for up to 
twelve months. Mrs N has told us that she wouldve  received some sick pay from her employer  and 
she couldve  relied  on her husband to support  her. She also mentioned she may have had some 
savings at the time - but she couldnt  confirm  how much she had, so Ive not been able to rely on this 
information. And although  Im sure Mrs Ns husband  wouldve been willing to support her, help from 
others cant always be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also change. The PPI wouldve  paid 
out for longer  than Mrs N wouldve received full pay sick pay and in addition to this. So these funds 
couldve been  used  for other expenses. And so l still think the policy  wouldve  been useful for her and 
I dont think better information wouldve put her off taking  out the cover.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 13 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ref: DRN30704083ombudsman
Ref: DRN3070408