K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about the amount  of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC,  offered following 
a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out by Mrs R in 2005. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Lloyds got due to the PPI. I havent considered  how the policy was sold because  this was 
already considered in 2013.  Ive only looked  at whether the offer Lloyds has made  is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Lloyds said that the level of commission and profit  share it received  did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs R paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mrs R for the time they were out of pocket. 
Mrs R has said she should receive all the commission and profit share back.  But Lloyds has 
done what the rules  it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Rs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Lloyds to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Lloyds Bank PLC has correctly worked out what  it needs  to 
pay Mrs R. 
Lloyds Bank  PLC should update and pay its offer to Mrs R if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ref: DRN38128592ombudsman
Ref: DRN3812859