K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that Great Lakes  Insurance SE unfairly  rejected a claim he made 
under his Cosmetic  Repair Insurance policy.
All references to the underwriter Great Lakes include the administrator of the policy.
background 
Mr M made a claim for cosmetic damage to the rear wing of his car. He provided  photos and 
Great Lakes authorised the claim. A repairer visited and told Mr M the repairs would need  to 
be done by a body shop.  Mr M said he asked if additional damage  to the door could be done 
by way of a separate claim while it was at the body shop. 
Great Lakes then declined Mr Ms claim because it said the overall damage to the door and 
rear wing exceeded  the 30cm limit under the policy. The repairer said the height  of the 
damage was the same.  But Mr M said they were from separate incidents. 
Mr M asked  us to look at his complaint. Great Lakes reconsidered and thought  it may be 
possible that the damage to the rear wing was separate.  So it asked Mr M to provide further 
photos of the two further most points of the damage.
Unfortunately Mr M couldnt  do this as he said hed since part exchanged his car. But he said 
he was given a quote for between £600  and £700  to repair  the damage and that this was 
deducted from the part exchange value  the dealership gave him. Mr M couldnt provide 
evidence of the estimate  or that this sum had been deducted from the value. 
So based  on the information  available to us, the investigator recommended Great Lakes  pay 
Mr M £100 compensation for failing to properly consider the claim for the rear wing damage 
in the first place. But without photos  of the rear wing damage to show it was less than 30 cm 
 and without  evidence of Mr Ms claimed financial loss, the investigator thought this was the 
fairest outcome. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators findings.  Mr M didnt agree. He hasnt provided any 
evidence but says Great Lakes should meet  him half way on the estimate he was given to 
repair the damage. 
As Mr M didnt agree, the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators recommendations to put things right. We dont know if the 
claim for only the rear wing damage  would have been accepted  once further photos were 
available. And Mr M hasnt provided  any proof  that the price  he got for his car was around 
£700 less due to the rear wing damage not being repaired. So I cant  conclude  that Great 
Lakes SE caused Mr M financial loss. 
Ref: DRN37417972But I think Great Lakes shouldnt have declined  Mr Ms claim by treating the damage to both 
the door and the rear wing as one. It seems to accept this as it later told us it may have been 
caused by separate incidents  and was prepared to consider  the initial claim again. But by 
this time it was too late as Mr M had since sold his car. 
So I think the fairest outcome is for Great Lakes to compensate Mr M for the inconvenience  
its handling of the claim  caused him. I think £100 compensation is reasonable in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to pay Mr M £100  compensation for the inconvenience it 
caused him.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which  
we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate 
of 8% a year.
If Great Lakes Insurance  SE considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3741797