K822xcomplaint
Mr J has complained that a sofa he financed using a fixed  sum loan agreement  with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background 
Mr J used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation  to pay for a sofa,  chair  and fabric repair 
kit in May 2017. The goods cost around £1,600.  He also paid £200 for a five-year  fabric 
guard. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with the quality of the sofa so he complained  to Creation and the 
supplier around three months after it was delivered.  He said the sofa had poor quality  
cushions and that the foam inside it was out of shape. The supplier agreed to inspect the 
sofa. Mr J says the supplier didnt  attend  the initial appointment, but it carried out an 
inspection in January 2018. 
The supplier  couldnt  find a problem with the springs  or the frame.  And it said the foam  
interiors had settled in line with use. Creation responded to say the complaint should be 
directed to the supplier.  Mr J wasnt happy  with either response,  so he paid £40 for an 
independent inspection to be carried out. The independent  report  said:
The seat interiors are very soft and have little resilience. These  interiors  have settled 
beyond the expected  tolerance and are not functioning as they should. 
The inside backs have  not been upholstered correctly. The webbing and inner lining 
has not had enough  tension applied. This has caused the fabric  of the inside back to 
sink inwards. The other  issue  is as there  is no foam along the bottom rails, the 
sunken fabric is rubbing against a sharp raw edge.
The technician concluded the interiors wouldnt last the expected life of the sofa and are 
already showing  need of replacement. He also said the inside back fabric would rip and tear 
in time along  the sharp edges.
Mr J asked our service  to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended this complaint should be upheld.  He said the independent 
report indicates the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. And he 
recommended that Mr J should be able to return the sofa to Creation and receive a full 
refund for the amounts he paid (with interest).
Creation initially  said the complaint had been made  out of time because  Mr J had referred it 
to our service more than six months after it sent its final response.  It also didnt agree with 
the investigators recommendations. It said, in summary, the report  provided by Mr J isnt 
suitable or appropriate and doesnt  take into consideration  what  the actual fault is. It has also 
said the sofa was delivered to Mr Js partner, so a valid relationship  for a claim to be made  
under section 75 doesnt exist. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2019:
Ref: DRN33125782Mr Js referral of the complaint
Mr J contacted Creation  because he was unhappy  with the quality  of the sofa,  and it sent 
him its final response on 1 February  2018. Creations final response said that the supplier 
would be better placed  to deal with the complaint.  And it let Mr J know  that he had six 
months to refer the complaint to our service. Mr J contacted our service a few days  later to 
say that he was unhappy with Creations response. So I think  Mr J referred his complaint to 
our service  within six months of Creations final response letter.  I think the complaint has 
been brought in time. 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship
Mr J paid for the sofa and chair using a regulated  consumer credit agreement  with Creation. 
Our service is able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements.  
When considering  if Creation acted fairly  in dealing with Mr Js claim, I take into account the 
relevant law. So in Mr Js case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) makes 
Creation responsible for a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier under 
certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct relationship 
between the debtor (Mr J), the creditor (Creation)  and the supplier (furniture shop).
The CCA defines debtor as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit  
agreement. In this case, thats Mr J because he entered into the agreement with Creation. 
The supply contract and delivery documentation is in Mr Js partners name. They  didnt live 
together at the time he entered  into the agreement with Creation. And the sofa and chair 
were delivered to her address. But Mr J tells us that he was due to move in with her after the 
goods were delivered,  and it was a sofa they planned on using together. They  currently  live 
together and share it. So while Mr J wasnt named  on the supply  contract or delivery 
paperwork, he and his partner were making a joint purchase as part of their joint affairs. 
Therefore, I think hes jointly contracting with the supplier and the debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain hasnt been broken.  So I think the necessary relationship for a claim to be considered 
under section 75 exists.  
quality of goods
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  was implied  into the contract  when Mr J bought  the 
sofa and chair. Under contracts like these, there are implied terms that the goods supplied 
will be of satisfactory  quality. The CRA says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet 
the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In this case, Mr J purchased a brand new sofa and chair from the supplier. So they should 
have been in perfect condition, without any defects. Mr J should not have  expected anything 
significant to go wrong  soon  after buying  the goods.  And they should have been sufficiently 
durable.
Ref: DRN33125783Mr J complained about problems with the sofa within  a few months  of it being delivered. The 
supplier couldnt  find any problems with it so Mr J paid for an independent report  to be 
carried out. I dont  think Mr J would  have gone  to these  lengths unless he genuinely thought 
there was a problem.  Mr J has also told us that hes stopped using the sofa, and that its 
been stored in his garage  which has caused  him further inconvenience. I think Mr J has 
been consistent and credible throughout.  
While Creation doesnt think the report is adequate, I think  its quite clear the technician 
didnt think the goods were of satisfactory quality.  From reading  the report, I think its more 
likely than not that the goods will not last their life expectancy. And while the report  may not 
look like other  reports  that Creation has commissioned, from looking at the technicians  
website, and from listening to our investigators  call with him, on balance, I think hes suitably 
qualified to carry out an assessment on the sofa. He said he didnt know  Mr J prior to 
completing the report and he assumed that Mr J had found his details on the internet. But he 
remembers carrying out the report.  Due to the length of time that has passed, the technician 
no longer has the photos he took.  But he was able to clearly explain his main concern there 
was no protection  between  the beams and the back of the sofa, meaning the material was 
rubbing on the beams and that this would eventually lead to a tear. 
Creation offered to get another  independent  assessment  carried out. But it had the 
opportunity to do this when Mr J originally  complained. And in any event, I dont think this is 
necessary. On balance,  I think  theres enough evidence to demonstrate  theres been a 
breach of contract.  Mr J complained about the goods more than 30 days after they were  
delivered. So normally, the supplier should get an opportunity to repair them.  But any repair  
should happen within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
customer. In this case, given everything  that has happened, and taking into account  how 
long ago Mr J complained I dont think it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Creation  to have 
an attempt to arrange a repair. I think its fair that Mr J be allowed  to reject the sofa and 
chair. And I think its fair hes reimbursed the cost of the report. 
Ive taken into account how long Mr J says he used the goods for  only a few months.  And 
Ive also considered that he says hes had them in storage for the rest of the time. In the 
circumstances, I think  it fair that he receives  a full refund  of what hes paid. I dont  think 
Creation should  be entitled to make a deduction for usage. 
conclusion
I dont think the goods  were  of satisfactory quality.  And I think now Mr J should be entitled to 
reject them and to receive  his money back.  
I also think Creation could have done more to help Mr J when he put in his claim. Creation  is 
jointly liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. It passed  on the 
complaint to the supplier.  But Mr J had already been  in touch with the supplier and it had 
inspected the goods. I think Creation should  have  taken ownership of the claim and made 
sure it was investigated properly. I cant see that it followed up with Mr J to see if the 
complaint had been resolved, and I think its actions have delayed  things and caused 
inconvenience to him. In the circumstances, I think it should  pay him £100  in recognition of 
the inconvenience its caused.
Ref: DRN33125784Mr J agreed with my provisional  decision but Creation didnt. In summary,  Creation reiterated 
that it didnt think  the report  was adequate. It offered to obtain  another independent report.  It 
also pointed out that Mr J tried to reject the goods outside of 30 days after delivery. It says 
that therefore it should be given an opportunity  to arrange to repair  the goods in the first 
instance. Creation  also says there  was only a fault with the sofa and not the whole order  
so its not fair for Mr J to be able to hand  everything  back. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Creation has said in response to my provisional  decision. But 
Ive already considered most of these points when making my provisional decision so I wont  
repeat everything  here. Ive set out why I thought the report that Mr J obtained was 
adequate. The technician was independent and from listening to our call with him, he 
seemed credible, with significant experience in the relevant industry.  I found  his testimony 
and report persuasive  and sufficient for me to reach  a conclusion  on the quality of the goods. 
I also explained that Id had regard  to the CRA. I realise that Mr J complained  outside of the 
first 30 days  of delivery of the goods.  So he was not able to exercise  the short term right to 
reject. Ive also considered that Creation would usually be given an opportunity  to repair  the 
goods before Mr J could  reject them. But, importantly, repairs should be completed  within  a 
reasonable time and without significant inconvenience  to the consumer. In this particular 
case, that hasnt  happened. I dont think Creation should now be given the opportunity to 
arrange a repair and its not clear  that a repair  would  work. I therefore think, in all the 
circumstances, its fair and reasonable that Mr J be able to reject the goods and receive a 
full refund. 
Creation has said there is only a problem with the sofa, and not the whole order.  But the 
order was bought as a set. I dont think its fair or reasonable  for Mr J to be required to keep 
the rest of the order when hed be handing  back the sofa. I think  its fair that he now be given  
the opportunity  to buy a new matching set should he wish to do so.  
Considering everything  above, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN33125785my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited should:
End the agreement. 
Arrange to collect the sofa, chair and fabric repair kit from Mr J, at no cost to him. 
Refund Mr J all payments he made  towards the agreement.  
Reimburse Mr J £40 for the inspection report.  
Interest should  be added to the above  amounts, at a rate of 8% per year simple  from 
the date the payments were made (or the date of the report),  to the date of 
settlement*. 
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Js credit file. 
Pay Mr J £100 compensation. 
*If Creation considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also provide Mr J with 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3312578