K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss B complain that OneCall  Financial Advice Centre  removed a key feature of 
their life insurance and critical illness policy without bringing it to their attention.  
background
In March 2005, Mr B and Miss B applied for a life insurance policy (Policy 1) through their 
financial adviser  OneCall. Policy 1 was accepted and underwritten by a firm Ill refer to as 
A and the cost for policy  1 was £14.87  per month.  Policy 1 included a Guaranteed 
Insurability Option (GIO). This gave  Mr B and Miss B the option to increase their sum 
assured without providing medical evidence, at regular  intervals  and significant life events.
Policy 1 was cancelled in April 2005  and Mr B and Miss B applied for a new policy (Policy 2) 
with OneCall. Policy 2 was accepted by A in June 2005, it gave Mr B and Miss B life and 
terminal illness cover  and was more expensive at £45.01  per month.  But the GIO was not 
included with Policy  2. 
In 2015, following a significant  life event, Mr B and Miss B tried to exercise their GIO with A. 
They were  initially told they had the option  within Policy 2 but it later transpired that this was 
not the case. 
Mr B and Miss B complained to OneCall. They stated they were told by OneCall that once  
Policy 2 was underwritten by A, the price  might increase from the initial quotation but they 
werent told that any features or benefits of Policy  2 may change. They  said they hadnt 
owned a property before, so relied  on the independent advice offered by OneCall to find 
them a suitable  policy. 
Because of the length of time that had passed, OneCall didnt have any information  relating 
to the sale of Policy  1 or Policy 2. Our investigator concluded we couldnt fairly  provide an 
answer as there wasnt enough evidence to establish what happened at the point of sale. 
After some discussion  with A, our service obtained  further evidence  about the sale of the 
Policy 1 and Policy 2. A informed us that OneCall contacted them in April 2005 and asked 
for Policy 1 to be cancelled and treated as though it never existed  due to a mistake with Mr 
Bs employment. 
Our investigator didnt  feel that OneCall ought  to do anything differently. Following As 
comments about the GIO feature, he said Mr Bs employment as a roofer  meant that the GIO 
couldnt be included  in Policy 2. He said Policy 1 and Policy 2 documents  were clear  about 
the features  and benefits of each  policy. He concluded that there  wasnt  sufficient evidence 
to suggest the GIO was the only reason Mr B and Miss B took out the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with what our investigator has said so I wont  be upholding Mr B and 
Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN32448772Because of the time that has passed since  Mr B and Miss B applied  for their life insurance 
and critical illness cover with OneCall, there isnt much information  from the point of sale.
Mr B and Miss B stated they wanted  to protect  themselves as they hadnt owned a property 
before and initially took out a decreasing term assurance policy in April 2005. The evidence 
shows that OneCall  got in touch  with A to tell them about a mistake with Mr Bs employment 
and asked for Policy  1 to be treated as though in never existed. Following  the cancellation of 
Policy 1, Policy 2 was taken out shortly  after.
Policy 2 included  the same amount  of cover as Policy 1 and appears to include  terminal 
illness cover  at no extra cost. However  the price of Policy 2 was significantly more  an 
increase from £14.87  to £45.01 per month.  Mr B and Miss B accept they knew  the cost might 
have gone up once Policy 2 was underwritten by A. Given that Policy 2 was triple the cost of 
Policy 1, I think  the increase in cost was likely  due to the mistake  with Mr Bs employment 
and increased  risk rating associated with it. 
Ive had a look at the schedules of Policy 1 and Policy 2. Both were six pages  long  so not 
particularly lengthy.  The conditions started on page  4 of each of the schedules.  The key 
difference is that Policy 1 included information  on GIO, Policy  2 didnt - which  I think  was 
clear. Mr B and Miss B didnt dispute receiving the policy  schedules,  so its difficult  for me to 
say that the missing feature  of GIO wasnt sufficiently brought to their attention. 
OneCall ought  to have brought to Mr B and Miss Bs attention that GIO wouldnt be included 
in Policy 2 but I dont  have any evidence to suggest what  was said at the time. However, I do 
think the policy documents were clear and were  enough to put Mr B and Miss B on notice 
that GIO wasnt included  in Policy 2.
Its clear Miss B thought GIO was included  in Policy 2 as she tried to exercise this benefit  in 
2015. But its unclear whether this was an assumption, misinformation from OneCall  or 
reliance on information  provided 10 years  earlier.  Its very difficult for me to suggest it was 
the latter given  how long ago the sale took place and the lack of information available about  
what was discussed.
I do find that it was Mr B and Miss Bs intention  to protect themselves as they were  home  
owners and had continued  with the policy for some time. So I cant say that their sole 
decision to apply for a policy through OneCall  was because  of the GIO benefit.
I appreciate Mr B and Miss B are likely  to be disappointed with my outcome but I simply do 
not have any persuasive evidence  to suggest  that OneCall misled them about the features 
and benefits of Policy  2, or that they wouldnt have taken the cover  out if theyd known Policy  
2 didnt include this benefit. I havent seen anything to suggest it was unsuitable and based 
on the update made  to Policy 2 to include Mr Bs employment, Im persuaded that it better  
reflected their circumstances at the time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Ref: DRN32448773Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3244877