K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that TSB Bank plc has failed  to refund her for an ATM  withdrawal where her 
cash wasnt dispensed.
background
On 9 April 2019,  Ms S tried to withdraw  £200 from an ATM outside of a TSB Branch at 11:18 
(Ill refer to this as ATM 1). The cash wasnt dispensed and, on Ms S thinking the machine 
had run out of money, she went into branch. While  waiting to speak with a member of staff,  
Ms S says she saw a man use the same ATM and that money was dispensed. 
Ms S told us a staff member asked her to use another  ATM (ATM 2). On attempting  to 
withdraw £200 from ATM 2 at 11:21, Ms S says the same thing happened and no money  
was dispensed.  Ms S then made her withdrawal over the counter for £200.  Ms S says she 
was informed money had debited  her account and that this would be looked  into. Shes told 
us it was later that day when logging onto her online banking that she realised  her account 
had been debited by £200 from ATM 1, £200  from ATM 2 and £200 from over the counter.  
TSB refunded Ms Ss account with £200  on 10 April 2019. Its said it viewed  CCTV footage 
and saw ATM 1 had retracted the money.  However,  TSB said it couldnt refund Ms Ss 
account with the further £200  for ATM 2, as it didnt think there was evidence to suggest  the 
money wasnt dispensed. Ms S contacted the police to try to obtain footage of ATM 2. Ms S 
says the police couldnt take the matter  further because no crime had been committed. 
As TSB hadnt seen any CCTV to show Ms S using ATM 2 and its records  didnt show any 
problem with the machine at that time it didnt uphold the complaint  for this withdrawal. 
Ms S remained unhappy with TSBs  response  and so brought her complaint to our service.    
Our investigator considered all the information available,  such as the balance  history for the 
ATM and TSBs  system notes but they wanted  to see the journal roll from the time Ms S 
used ATM 2. TSB wasnt able to provide the journal  roll, but it provided information that 
showed ATM 2 was over by £120. It said as this was less than the amount Ms S withdrew 
from her account, it was satisfied this was not her money. Our investigator wasnt satisfied 
there was enough  evidence  to show the money  was dispensed from ATM 2. She was 
persuaded by Ms Ss version of events and her actions on the day. On that basis, the 
complaint was upheld.
TSB didnt  agree. It reiterated  its investigation showed Ms Ss money was dispensed  and 
while ATM 2 showed to be over by £120, this was not the amount Ms S withdrew from her 
account and so it was satisfied this was not her money. So, it asked for an ombudsmans  
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator that this complaint should  be upheld
Ref: DRN32687492and that Ms S should  receive back the money  that was debited from her account  in relation 
to the withdrawal made from ATM 2.
In these types of cases, where there is a dispute over whether  money  was dispensed  or not 
there is certain documentary evidence  from the cash machine,  such as the journal roll, purge 
bin report and balance  history that we look at, along with all other relevant information, like 
the parties testimony. In this case,  there  is limited  information available and so its not been  
possible to see everything Id expect to. Unfortunately, TSB has been unable  to provide the 
journal roll due to the time thats  passed. 
TSB has given us the balancing history for ATM 2, from 3 April 2019 to 12 April 2019. This 
shows the opening and closing balance of the ATM  and that further money  was added to the 
ATM on two occasions between these  dates. This information shows the ATM was over by 
£120 when it was balanced  on 12 April 2019. TSBs position is that as this amount is lower 
than the money  Ms S withdrew from her account,  this money is not hers. Its said the money 
Ms S withdrew from her account  at ATM 2 was dispensed 32 seconds  after the withdrawal 
was processed.  However, due to the time thats  passed since  then its been unable  to 
provide information  to show this.  
Ive carefully thought  about the balancing  history TSB has provided and what it has said, but 
ATMs arent balanced every day, and in this case,  while it is not for the amount Ms S 
withdraw from her account,  it still shows the ATM was over by £120.  The balancing history 
provided shows that there was around 10 days between the machine being balanced. Given  
this length of time, there  is room  for other errors  to have  happened during this period, which 
make it more difficult to know what exactly happened with this transaction.  The information 
given to us shows  the machine was over by £120.  This suggests  to me its more  likely than 
not there were some issues with the machine  during the balancing  period.  
As Ive mentioned  above, TSB hasnt been  able to provide us with the journal  roll for ATM  2 - 
so Ive not seen  anything  that shows there were no errors with the ATM when Ms S made  
her transaction. This means  I cant be as sure as I would  need to be that ATM 2 correctly 
dispensed.  
Ive also considered what Ms S has told us happened. In doing  so, I find her version  of 
events and the actions she took on 9 April 2019 to be plausible. Ms S had the intention to 
make a £200 withdrawal  on 9 April 2019. When the money wasnt received from ATM  1, on 
the advice of a staff member she then attempted the withdrawal  again  at ATM 2. On the 
money not being received  again, Ms S then went to the counter to withdraw the £200.  It also 
seems unlikely Ms S would have contacted the police to try and obtain  footage  if she thought  
this would show she took the money.  In the absence of documentary  evidence, such  as the 
journal roll, on balance, Im inclined to find Ms S didnt  receive  the money, which  is why she 
then went to the counter to make the same withdrawal.   
In summary,  when considering what I think is more likely than not to have  happened, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, Im not persuaded the £200 was dispensed on 9 April 2019 
from ATM 2. I dont have sufficient information to conclude ATM 2 was working properly. And 
Ms Ss testimony strongly suggests  she didnt receive money  from ATM 2 as she then went  
into branch shortly afterwards to withdraw the money over the counter. So, I dont think  its 
fair for TSB to hold Ms S liable for the ATM 2 withdrawal. 
putting things right
Ref: DRN32687493TSB Bank plc should:
refund  the £200 withdrawal in dispute;  and-
pay simple  interest to Ms S on the withdrawal, at the rate of 8% simple  a 
year, payable from the date it was debited until the date its returned. This is 
to compensate Ms S for the time she was without her money.
 If TSB  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms S how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms S a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks  for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct TSB Bank plc to put things  right 
by doing what  Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3268749