K820x#14Complaint
Mr T is complaining about Sesame  Limited because he says its advisers recommended  he 
make three investments in a high-risk, unregulated product through his self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP).  He says the investment wasnt suitable and involved a greater 
degree of risk than he was willing to accept.
Background
This complaint concerns  the actions of two advisers,  Mr P and Mr Y of Parklands  
Independent Financial Services. At the time of the events being complained about, 
Parklands was an appointed representative (AR) of Sesame and Mr T thinks Sesame is 
responsible for the advisers  actions.
Mr T had a SIPP with Hornbuckle Mitchell  that appears to have been  set up in 2006. In June  
2008, he invested £38,000 in an unregulated  investment called Mission German  Capital 
Cities (MGCC) fund, marketed by a company called Property Bourse. Mr T invested a further  
£25,000 in March 2009 and, following a rights issue, another  £10,000 in September  2010.
Mr T says these  investments were made  with advice from Parklands, initially  from Mr P and 
later from Mr Y. In 2012, the MGCC fund was placed into liquidation and I understand Mr T 
lost the money  he invested.
Sesame didnt uphold  Mr Ts complaint. In summary, it said he didnt complain about the 
2008 and 2009 investments until 2016  and is therefore out of time. In respect of the 
investment in 2010, it said no advice was given by its adviser. It also said Parklands wasnt 
authorised to advise  on this type of investment, meaning it cant  be held responsible even if 
advice was given.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision explaining why I felt we can consider a complaint about Mr Ts 
£25,000 investment  in March 2009, but not about  his other investments into the MGCC fund. 
Both parties  contacted us to say they werent  disputing my assessment.
Following further submissions from the parties, I then issued my provisional  decision on the 
merits of this complaint  and explained  why I didnt think  it should  be upheld. An extract  is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr T didnt  accept my provisional  decision and made the following key points:
The original investment was proposed by Mr P of Parklands, which it turns  out he 
wasnt permitted to advise  on under  its agreement  with Sesame. It appears from the 
tone of my comments that I see no wrong in this and think advisers can do whatever 
they like without recourse.
The comments from Sesame and Mr Y are distorted and misleading. He certainly  
wasnt an experienced and sophisticated  investor and no evidence has been 
provided to substantiate this. As previously stated, all his investments made were 
with advice and guidance from Parklands based  on a confidence and trust that had 
developed during  the course  of their relationship. He wouldnt have had a clue which 
markets were good, bad or indifferent and doesnt  recall ever making suggestions 
about which ones  he should invest in.
Ref: DRN37882412After Mr P left Parklands, its clear  Mr Y had no idea about the fund and had to look 
into it to find out what  was going  on. Having done so, and despite  its poor 
performance, he advised investing  more money.  Clearly Mr Y didnt look at the fund 
closely enough. If he had done, he wouldnt have  advised  a further investment.
Its staggering that I appear to be saying its acceptable to lose his money because 
his fund was worth in excess of £500,000  and he held other  investments.
If my decision has been made  based  on the comments  of Sesame and Mr Y, then he 
believes theres no justice in the world  of finance. His interpretation of my decision is 
that Im saying financial advisers can advise a client on any financial offering, 
regulated or otherwise, without any recourse  and take commission  at a cost to the 
investor.
Its confusing that I accept he was advised but dont think that advice was unsuitable. 
It certainly was, given it was to invest in an unregulated fund involving a higher 
degree of risk than he would normally accept. 
It appears I havent taken any of his comments on board in reaching my provisional 
decision. 
My Findings
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Mr Ts response  to my provisional decision,  my conclusions  havent changed.
I understand Mr Ts disappointment  at the decision Ive reached.  But I want  to be clear  that 
Im in no way condoning  the actions of Parklands  in advising on an unregulated investment 
outside the terms of its AR agreement with Sesame.  Ive simply said that I cant  consider the 
merits of certain aspects of Mr Ts complaint  in line with the rules under which I must 
operate.
My provisional decision included a summary of the submissions received by both parties in 
connection with this complaint, but I havent  reached my decision based on anything  from 
Parklands or Sesame  that cant be substantiated. This includes suggestions Mr T was an 
experienced and sophisticated investor,  that he made proposals  to the adviser  about  what 
he could invest in, or that he held numerous other investments. I also fully accept  that the 
investments Mr T held had been  made  with advice from Parklands based on a relationship of 
confidence and trust that had developed over time. My understanding  of the circumstances  
in which  he invested,  and therefore my assessment of whether the advice was suitable, is 
instead based on information  from the SIPP provider about  the value of his pension  and the 
funds it was invested in at the time, alongside information he told us about his other 
investments in his own submissions.
Im also not disputing Mr Ts contention  that he was a medium-risk investor. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  that doesnt  necessarily mean all his investments 
should have been placed in medium risk funds and that anything presenting a higher level of 
risk was therefore unsuitable. Instead  it means anyone  advising him needed to make sure 
the balance of his entire  portfolio was appropriate and overall  presented a broadly  medium 
level of risk. It was reasonable to recommend a combination  of different investments, some 
lower risk and some  higher risk, to achieve this end. 
Ref: DRN37882413When considering  the suitability  of the advice Mr T received, I think  its also relevant to note 
that my assessment must be based  on the information reasonably available to the adviser at 
the time.  The fact the investment didnt perform as he hoped subsequently doesnt  
necessarily mean advice was unsuitable  at the time it was given.
On the basis that Mr T was a normal retail investor with a broadly medium attitude  to risk, 
and in view of the other investments held within his SIPP and that hes told us about outside 
of it, I still think  it was reasonable to recommend he invest a relatively small part (less than 
10%) of his total wealth in a higher-risk  fund like MGCC. I believe the conclusion that the 
investment was within his overall risk tolerance, when considerd in the context  of his overall 
portfolio, is supported by his email exchange  with Mr Y in 2010 when he opted to invest  a 
further £10,000 after being  told he could be throwing good money after bad. I think  shows  
he was willing to expose at least part of his money to a greater level of risk in exchange  for 
potentially higher returns.
It would be wrong to interpret my decision to say that advisers  can advise on what  they like 
without recourse. It instead relates  solely  to the merits of Mr Ts case  and isnt intended to 
set a precedent  to be applied elsewhere. Im merely  saying that, in the circumstances  of this 
particular case,  I dont believe the advice  given by the adviser was unsuitable.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN37882414Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
In my view,  the outcome  of this complaint turns on two key questions.  First, whether  Mr T received 
advice from Parklands in respect of his March 2009 investment. And, if so, whether that advice was 
suitable for his circumstances and needs.
Did Parklands give advice to Mr T?
In reaching my jurisdiction  decision, I considered  whether Mr T received advice on his investments in 
the MGCC  fund and I concluded he did. Sesame disputes this assessment and has made the 
following key points:
The relevant correspondence shows Mr P simply made Mr T aware there was a further 
opportunity to invest in MGCC and that it was Mr T who decided  to proceed.
The view that advice was given is based on a letter from Mr P to Mr T dated  18 February  
2009. This contained no positive recommendation to invest further in MGCC or assertions  as 
to the suitability of the investment. It appears Mr P was simply making  Mr T aware there was 
an opportunity to make a further  investment "should [he] wish to use it and setting out a 
process that could be followed to achieve this.
Consistent with this interpretation of events, none of the standard  point of sale 
documentation, such as fact finds and suitability  letters, was generated.  Also,  no information 
or documentation  was uploaded onto Sesames  back-office system,  something its ARs are 
always required  to do when  providing advice to clients.
My jurisdiction decision  referred  to comments made by Mr P in a letter  dated  23 February  
2009. It doesnt  accept these  comments constituted advice but, in any event, this letter  was 
sent after Mr Ts application had been made. So its not relevant to the issue of whether Mr T 
was advised to make  that investment.
After reading Sesames  comments,  Mr T restated his view that his investment was made  following  
advice from Parklands.
Im aware the normal advice  procedures werent  followed, including completing a fact find and 
suitability letter and uploading details to Sesames back office system. Im also aware Sesame  doesnt 
appear to have received payment for the investment. But none of this means no advice was given. To 
determine whether Mr T was advised, Ive considered how the regulated activity of advising on 
investments was defined in article 53 of The Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA) 
(Regulated Activities) Order  2001 (the RAO):
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity if the advice is -
a)given to the person in his capacity  as an investor or potential investor,  or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
b)advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent) -
(i)buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which  is a 
security or a contractually based investment, or
(ii)exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
I also think  it would be wrong to consider what happened in 2008 in isolation. Mr T had already made  
an investment into the MGCC fund in 2008. If he received  advice at that time, that could also have 
been a basis for the decision  to make  a further investment into the same fund in 2009.
Ref: DRN37882415In respect of the first part of the definition, Im satisfied  Mr T was an investor or potential  investor. 
Moving to the second part, Mr Ps letter of 17 April 2008  appears  to show he first introduced the 
MGCC investment  to Mr T. He said:
Whilst writing I thought I would drop you some information about an investment that you may 
wish to consider  within your SIPP.
The minimum investment is £38,000 (all the lower  tranches have been sold), there is no lock 
in, no minimum or maximum investment period although I would  like to consider this an 
investment for up to 6 years.  The reason being is because this is the period over which they 
believe the best returns will be achieved, however  if we want to get out we can. I can also 
confirm that 100% of the fund is invested.
Have a look and let me know  your thoughts.
In view of the fact Mr T wrote two days earlier to confirm  they would be discussing investment  
opportunities at their next meeting, I dont think it would  have been unreasonable  for him to view this 
letter as advice. Either way, I think its unlikely  Mr P would  have discussed the investment without 
offering an opinion on its merits and Im satisfied he gave advice on the original investment. 
Given I believe  Mr P advised Mr T on his original investment, I think its also likely  he advised  him on 
the additional investment in March 2009. In support of this view,  I note Mr P said in his letter of 18 
February 2009:
I have indicated on the application form that no initial  commission will be taken should  you 
take up the offer, although there would 0.5% per annum  to pay for ongoing advice.
We discussed encashing  the existing property funds  to invest in the Property Bourse and 
enclose a Skandia disinvestment request to achieve this. The intention would be to encash 
the Fidelity Global Property and Standard Life Select Property funds.
In my view,  this indicates there was a discussion about the merits of Mr Ts second investment into 
MGCC and its unclear why Mr P would have requested a fee for ongoing advice if none  was being 
given. 
Although it appears the basis on which his comment was made wasnt correct, I also think Mr Ps 
letter of 23 February 2009 indicated he offered  advice  on the merits of investing. In this letter he said:
The only exception is the Property Bourse, which isnt mainstream but being FSA regulated 
makes me feel better about it.
I note Sesame says this letter was issued after the application was submitted, but the investment 
hadnt been finalised. In any event, I think its indicative of the sort of conversations that would  most 
likely have taken place before the application  was made. But even if this letter is disregarded because  
of when  it was written,  I think the other issues Ive referred  to provide sufficient  evidence to conclude  
Mr T was advised.
Im conscious  the MGCC fund was an esoteric, specialist, unregulated investment and I dont believe 
Mr T was a particularly sophisticated investor with extensive experience  of this type of product. I think 
the fact he employed  the services of an adviser suggests he was reliant  on advice to some extent.  On 
balance, I think its unlikely Mr T committed to the investment without advice from Mr P and I think  the 
evidence Ive referred to strongly supports the view advice was given.
Was the advice suitable?
In its most recent submissions, Sesame made the following key points:
Ref: DRN37882416Contrary to what I said, Mr T was an experienced  and sophisticated investor  and was well 
placed to understand the risks of the MGCC fund and to make an informed decision  about  
whether to invest. Hed previously made a number of investments through his SIPP  and also 
owned multiple  properties. By 2009, hed already made the earlier investment into MGCC and 
another unregulated investment into the London Mission Fund (LMF). He also made further 
investments into LMF despite  Parklands advice  against this and even after MGCC had failed. 
Mr T also held a share portfolio that he actively managed himself. Its clear from his 
correspondence with Parklands that he took an active  interest in, and was knowledgeable 
about, the financial  markets. For example, in a letter  to Mr P dated  15 April 2008  he said:
As we all know markets  are very volatile  at present,  and we are talking ourselves into 
a doomsday situation. I am sure that despite  the depression in the markets there is 
still money to he made.
Mr Y recalls Mr T was a very knowledgeable  investor who took active  control of investment 
decisions and said he had a good understanding  of the German  property market. Also,  that 
he explained in detail about  the gearing  in MGCC and that he had read the investment  
particulars when he made the initial  investment. Mr Y also says Mr T would even identify high-
risk and unusual investment  opportunities himself and present  these to Parklands, for 
example he identified  a scheme involving investment in car parking spaces in global city 
centres in 2011.
The correspondence  makes it clear Mr T was provided with MGCC fund particulars and 
information memorandum before he invested. These set out that the fund was an unregulated 
scheme and included  a lengthy list of risk warnings. Despite reading and understanding this 
information, Mr T was still happy to proceed.
Correspondence from the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  makes it clear 
Mr T was happy with any advice  he received from Parklands. In a letter  to Mr T dated 12 
March 2015, the FSCS said:  
Our understanding of your claim relates to three investments you made into the 
Property Bourse Mission  German Capital Cities Fund. These were  recommended  by 
Parklands Independent Financial Services  an appointed representative of Sesame 
Limited which is still trading however, you have no concerns over the actual advice to 
invest.
In addition,  the investments in MGCC represented  only a small  part of Mr Ts overall wealth. 
The total value of his investment portfolio at the relevant time was in excess of £500,000. 
Because he held numerous  other investments,  he could afford  to take more of a risk with a 
relatively modest proportion of his wealth.
Mr T says his attitude to risk was always medium,  but this oversimplifies the position. His 
overall portfolio was invested in line with an overall balanced risk profile. But a balanced 
attitude to risk does not require that every investment  carries  a medium level of risk. A 
relatively modest investment  in a higher risk fund is acceptable if balanced with lower risk 
investments.
This approach is consistent with risk assessments completed for Mr T in 2006 and 2008, 
copies of which were provided.
While  the MGCC investment was technically an unregulated collective investment scheme  
(UCIS), it was lower risk than most UCIS in the sense that it invested in tangible assets,  
namely German properties,  that could  always  be sold to repay  investors.  The operator of the 
fund was also an FCA regulated entity.  Ultimately, MGCC failed due to a fraud perpetrated by 
the fund managers and not due to any risks inherent in the nature or structure of the 
Ref: DRN37882417investment itself. With this in mind, investing in MGCC wouldnt have been inconsistent  with a 
balanced attitude to risk anyway even if viewed in isolation.
After reading Sesames  comments,  Mr T made the following key points:
Sesames comments about his knowledge, experience and sophistication are misleading. The 
investments referred to in his pension were those proposed by the company  appointed to 
manage the scheme. The Scottish Widows investment was a personal investment and 
nothing to do with his pension. He did purchase a second property,  but this has no bearing on 
his complaint and all these investments were made long before he became  involved with 
Parklands.
He had no understanding of the German investment market.  But he did believe  German 
property was a reasonable  investment because German residents  tend to live in rented 
property. Based on this view and the information provided  by Mr P, he felt MGCC was a 
reasonable investment.  
The comment that he could afford to take the loss because of the size of his pension fund 
displays a cavalier and unprofessional attitude.  He thought the job of an IFA was to enhance 
the value of his funds and not squander  them.  
Hes not aware that he ever presented  any investment opportunities  to Parklands.
Sesame has provided copies of historic risk assessments, but hes not been able to find these 
in his records  and doesnt  recall  seeing  them before.  He believes the validity of these forms is 
questionable as they arent signed and dated.
His attitude to investment risk has always been in the mid-range. He acknowledges that stock 
markets can rise and fall as demonstrated by the 2008 financial  crisis and more recently due 
to the coronavirus pandemic.  
The key issue in determining whether the advice Mr T received was suitable  for his circumstances 
and needs is whether the risks associated with the investment were consistent  with those he was 
willing to accept. This assessment must be based on what was known about the investment at the 
time of the advice rather than what happened later.
I note Sesames comments  on the nature  of the investment and its not my role to assess  the fund 
and determine a definitive risk rating. But I think there are valid reasons for thinking the fund did 
involve a significant degree of risk. While the underlying investment may have been tangible assets, 
the fact it invested exclusively  property meant there was a lack of diversification. It also appears the 
fund was highly geared, which increased  the chance of substantial losses. Even if the operator was 
an FCA regulated  entity, the investment itself was unregulated, meaning there was a lack of 
regulatory oversight and no access  to the FSCS if it failed. These are amongst the reasons the 
regulator has over time put in place various  restrictions concerning how UCIS investments  should be 
marketed and to whom.  Taking  everything into account,  I do think its reasonable to believe the 
MGCC fund should be seen as presenting a fairly high level of risk.
Mr T says he was a medium-risk investor but that doesnt necessarily mean  all his investments should 
have been placed in medium risk funds and that any presenting a higher level of risk were therefore 
unsuitable. Instead it means  anyone advising  him needed to make sure the balance  of his entire  
portfolio was appropriately  balanced and overall  involved a broadly medium level of risk. And it was 
appropriate to recommend a combination of different investments, some lower risk and some higher 
risk, to achieve this end. 
The risk assessments Sesame has provided indicate Mr T was willing  to put a small  part of his capital 
(up to 20%) into specialised and volatile  investments.  I note Mr T says he doesnt recall seeing  these 
documents before,  but I think the assessment that he was willing  to accept a higher degree of risk 
Ref: DRN37882418with at least  some  of his money is supported by his comments in his letter to Mr P of 15 April 2008  
referred to above. 
I think  Mr Ts correspondence with Mr Y when he was considering taking up the rights issue also 
indicates he was willing to accept a higher level of risk with some of his money  in exchange for a 
potentially higher  return.  In particular, Ive referred to an email  exchange on 16 August 2010 that 
started with Mr Y saying:
As mentioned  earlier I have  had a few conversations with Property Bourse recently. The 
reason being is that I wanted to understand exactly how the fund works and how you get your 
money back at the end of the term. As I had suggested it is down to when and if they can sell 
the property  portfolio at that point in the future.
However the fund is not in as good a shape  as it should be. This is in the main  due to the 
issues with the managing director of the fund in Germany. They have  now changed the 
management team and they are looking to renovate some of the properties held to ensure 
100% letting and also a better sale price for the portfolio in the future. To do this they have a 
rights issue to raise funds rather than borrow from the bank. The find is already geared to 
80% this means  that the fund has borrowed 80% of the net funds  value as additional money  
within the fund, this is very common practice with investment managers. It means  that if the 
fund makes a profit you would get an additional  80% more after interest is paid on the 
borrowing but on the flip side if the fund loses 10% you would lose 18% plus the cost of 
interest. The aim would be for rental incomes  to more than cover the borrowings interest 
payments.
Personally I would consider  buying  into the rights issue but only to a small extent. In basic 
terms a rights issue means creating more  shares,  this in turn devalues the existing shares 
that you own as the fund value has not increased  but the amount of shares has. The original 
shares were 60 cents  per share  and the rights issue  is at 30 cents per share. The expected 
future value or the goal is to value the fund at 1 euro per share. I think if you dont take 
advantage of the rights Issue you could get back a lower return on your existing shares. This 
may still happen  if you dont buy into the rights issue but if you do buy into it you will get the 
advantage of getting some more shares at a cheaper price and could  make a greater profit.
Later in the exchange, Mr Y also said:
I would put around 25% of the original investment i.e. £10k in as it could  be good money after 
bad. But if you dont you could kick yourself. Its your shout really.
And Mr T replied:
Well how could I refuse go for it put in £10k.
In my view,  Mr Ys comments are clear that the fund wasnt in as good a shape as it should be and 
that the borrowing  within it meant any loss would  be significantly increased. Mr Y even went  so far as 
to say a further investment  could be good money after bad. While  he said he would  personally invest 
a small amount, he did ultimately leave the decision for Mr T to make. If Mr T wasnt willing  to expose 
part of his capital to volatile investments that involved  a higher degree of risk, I think  its likely  he 
would have declined  to make a further investment. But he didnt and he instead decided  to commit  a 
further £10,000.
I appreciate this exchange  took place  around 18 months after the investment Im considering in this 
complaint. But Ive no reason to believe  Mr Ts attitude  to investment risk had changed significantly in 
the interim and I therefore  think  it provides  a relevant  insight into the risks he was willing  to accept  
with at least  part of the money available  to him. 
Ref: DRN37882419By the time Parklands advised Mr T to make his second investment into MGCC in March 2009, the 
value of his SIPP was more  than £500,000 and the total amount invested in MGCC accounted for 
around 10% of this. If his other investments are taken  into account, the proportion of his overall wealth 
invested in MGCC was lower than that. 
We have  information about the investments held within  Mr Ts SIPP from the provider  and I think this 
shows he had a broad spread of higher and lower risk investments. In the circumstances, I dont think  
it was unreasonable to recommend he invest a relatively  small proportion of the money he had in a 
higher-risk investment like MGCC that offered  the potential  for higher returns. And I dont think that 
investment upset the overall balance of his portfolio such that it was no longer consistent with his 
attitude to risk.
I realise my decision  will come as a disappointment  to Mr T and isnt what he was hoping to hear. 
While I do think he invested  with advice from Parklands, on balance,  I dont think  that advice was 
unsuitable or that it involved  a greater degree of risk than he was willing to accept  with this part of his 
capital.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN3788241