K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Link Market Services Trustees  Limited unnecessarily delayed the 
unfreezing of his share account.  This led him to incur a loss as the value of the shares  he 
wanted to sell fell significantly during  the delay.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ds complaint  in April 2019,  a copy of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. In it I explain why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In brief, I felt it was broadly reasonable for Link to have acted with caution  when  
responding to a request  from Mr Ds ex-wife to unfreeze  the shares, given the nature of 
previous correspondence between the parties.
I noted that at the heart of Mr Ds complaint was the fall in value of the shares  that occurred 
while the correspondence was ongoing. I acknowledged that it wouldve been a frustrating 
process and that the potential loss was significant.  But ultimately, in all the circumstances, I 
didnt think I could reasonably hold Link responsible for that.
I did, however, ask for further evidence to be provided where possible that might shed more 
light on what had happened  prior to the 2017  request from Mrs D. 
Mr D responded and supplied some  copies of additional correspondence,  including  some 
emails I hadnt previously seen. He also explained a little more about how his shareholding 
had been split in accordance with the court order. Around 130,000 shares  had been  
transferred to Mrs D in 2013,  leaving him with around 160,000,  which he felt shouldnt have 
been frozen and which  he shouldve been  able to access and trade freely from 2013  
onwards. He reiterated his position  that he felt Link had acted incorrectly and caused him to 
incur a significant loss. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As noted,  in my provisional decision I asked for more information  but I also stressed that I 
thought it was unlikely that further  correspondence  from the period  preceding Mrs Ds 
request would ultimately change my view of the matter.  And while I thank Mr D for providing  
more clarity  and the copies of emails, its proved to be the case  that my view hasnt been 
changed. 
Ive still not seen that an instruction was provided in respect of the lifting  of the freezing order 
that was sufficiently clear  that Link shouldve acted immediately upon it  at least  not until 
the letter 2 June 2017 from Mrs Ds solicitors, which Link did act upon. Prior to that there 
was, to my mind, sufficient  ambiguity  in the correspondence that it was reasonable for Link 
to progress with caution. 
In my provisional decision,  I highlighted the letters from Mrs D of January 2013 and August 
2016 in which she indicated that Mr Ds shares were still frozen.  On 22 August 2016, in 
response to a query from Mr D about  the situation  with his shares, Link replied to him to say 
that we have not received confirmation for the freezing order  to be removed; therefore we 
are unable to release  your dividends and shares. The following day, Mrs D wrote  to Link 
Ref: DRN35612822authorising payment of dividends but saying also that I will revert to you in due course re the 
Freezing Order which remains  in place on (Mr Ds) shareholding.
I understand that Mrs D was acting in entirely  good faith in saying this, but it remains the 
case that it wouldve  created some  uncertainty about the situation. As I noted previously, I 
appreciate Mr Ds comments about Link relying upon  what  Mrs D had said  and also its 
failure to act upon  the clause in the court order that allowed for the sale of shares with her 
permission in certain circumstances. But I nevertheless think  that until it was in receipt  of an 
entirely clear  confirmation of the situation  and instruction from Mr or Mrs D, it was 
reasonable for Link to act as it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN35612823COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr D complains that Link Market Services Trustees Limited unnecessarily delayed the unfreezing of 
his share account. This led him to incur a loss as the value of the shares  he wanted to sell fell 
significantly during the delay.
 
background
In 2010 a freezing injunction relating to matrimonial  proceedings between  Mr D and his ex-wife, Mrs D 
was registered against  his share account. The injunction was extended in May and October of that 
year on the same terms; that being until Mr Ds compliance with capital obligations or a further order 
being sought.  
There was some interaction between  Mrs D and Link (previously Capita)  over the next few years, 
which appears to have  been  primarily concerned  with confirmations that dividend payments could be 
made to Mr D. But then in January 2017 Mrs D contacted Link to say that the freezing injunction  could 
now be removed  from Mr Ds account.
Link was of the view that a further court order would need  to be obtained  but Mrs Ds solicitors 
responded to say that a further order wouldnt be necessary. Link maintained its position  but also 
suggested that Mrs Ds solicitors propose an alternative solution. The solicitors then confirmed that 
the original  court order had been complied with, which Link accepted. It in turn confirmed that Mr Ds 
shareholding was no longer frozen.  
By this time, in June  2017   some five months since  Mrs Ds original request  the share  price  had 
significantly fallen. As noted, it is the potential loss created by this fall in value that forms the basis of 
Mr Ds complaint. 
Link didnt consider  it had done anything wrong. In short, it felt that given the history of the matter and 
the size of the shareholding involved it was reasonable  for it to ensure it was acting properly in 
respect of the various  orders  and that unfreezing the account was the correct course of action. And 
doing so involved  referring the matter internally to its legal department and its Head of Legal, which 
unavoidably took some time to do. 
Mr D disagreed and maintained that Link was responsible for unnecessarily delaying the matter and 
causing him a loss. He said that Link shouldve  been aware that the injunction  had been  lifted much 
earlier than 2017. But in any event once Mrs Ds request had been received it shouldve acted sooner. 
He also highlighted that the injunction had moreover  contained provision for the shares  to be sold 
without it being lifted if circumstances  were  such that it was financially  prudent  to do so and Mrs Ds 
agreement had been  obtained. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but reached the same conclusion as Link.  Mr D maintained 
his view that Link was at fault, so the matters  been referred  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr D has said that he was in communication with Link in 2012, by which  point the injunction had been 
lifted, and he was able to sell shares and receive dividends. But in 2013 he encountered  problems, 
with Link saying that the account  was again frozen. There was then apparently further 
communication, up until late 2016, with both Mr D and Mrs D trying to get the account  unfrozen. 
Ref: DRN35612824Ive not, as yet, seen  documentation  to support this series of interactions. So it would be useful if in 
response to this provisional decision the parties could demonstrate more  clearly what happened 
between 2010 and 2016. 
But, that said,  Im not sure that it will ultimately  impact my overall view of the matter. I say this 
because I have  seen letters sent by Mrs D to Link, in January 2013 and August  2016,  authorising that 
dividend payments  be made  to Mr D. And these  both also say I will revert  to you in due course re the 
Freezing Order which  remains  in place   
This being so, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Link to act with caution when it then received Mrs 
Ds request in January  2017  only five months on from the second of these letters.  
Mrs Ds request said I hereby inform  you that the Freezing Order  which  was applied to the share-
holding of my ex-husbandon 7th April 2010 may now be lifted  and removed from his account. As 
Ive said,  I dont know exactly what information was supplied to Link between 2010 and 2016.  But in 
light of the contents of Mrs Ds request I dont think it was unreasonable  of Link to revert  to its legal 
department and consider the terms of the original 2010 order, which  did indicate  the possibility  of a 
further order  being needed.  
Mr D has said that at this point Link shouldve been aware that the injunction had been lifted  and 
certainly shouldnt have based its decision on what Mrs D said in her January 2017 request and her 
previous letters. But I dont agree. I think it was reasonable for it to look closely at the matter to ensure 
it proceeded correctly.   
In response to Mrs Ds letter Link explained  why it felt that a new court order would be needed. Her 
solicitors replied with a letter  that, although detailed, didnt in my view make the situation entirely  
clear. It was somewhat ambiguous,  and at one point said: It is our firm view, on behalf of our client, 
that as there is a Freezing Order currently in being  there is absolutely no need for our client or her ex-
husband to make an application to the Court. 
I assume this was simply a typo, but given the tone of the letter as a whole  I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Link to reiterate its view that a further order would be needed. And, importantly, at 
this point Link did acknowledge the frustration of the situation and suggest that a proposal be made  
as to how the matter might  be resolved without the need for a new court  order.  
The response  to this, again  from Mrs Ds solicitors, was a much clearer statement  of the position, 
saying that Mr D had complied with his financial obligations  arising out of the court orders and that 
consequently the freezing  order  had lapsed. Link accepted this clarification  and duly confirmed that it 
had removed  the freezing  order.    
Given the nature  of the correspondence  from Mrs D and her solicitors I dont think Link can be said to 
have acted unreasonably or incorrectly. I note that Mr D has pointed to a provision in the court  order 
that, in any event, allowed  for sale of the shares without the injunction  being lifted provided  certain 
conditions were  met  primarily  that such a sale would make business  sense and that Mrs D agreed 
to it. 
But Ive not seen that this was brought to Links  attention.  I accept that Link could  have taken account  
of this point  in its consideration of the order and followed it up with Mr D, Mrs D or her solicitors. But I 
dont think it can fairly be said that it should have done so. If Mr D, Mrs D or her solicitors wanted to 
rely upon this provision I think it was up to them to raise it. 
At the heart  of Mr Ds complaint is the fall in value  of the shares  that occurred while  the 
correspondence was ongoing. I appreciate it will have been a frustrating process  and that the 
potential loss is significant.  But ultimately, in all the circumstances, I dont think  I can reasonably  hold 
Link responsible.
Ref: DRN3561282