K821x#15complaint
Miss L has complained  about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision  not to 
offer her a renewal on her motor insurance  policy when it expired. 
Miss Ls complaint  was brought to us by her mother,  Mrs S, but for ease I will refer to 
Mrs Ss comments as Miss Ls.
background
Miss L had a motor  insurance policy with RSA which she took out in March  2018. In 
May 2018 a car (without its driver) rolled  down the street and crashed  into her car which  was 
parked on the street. 
Miss L said she made RSA aware of the incident  and it offered her a referral to its approved  
repairer. She said she declined the offer because the third party  insurance company offered  
to carry out the repairs to her car- as it was admitting liability.  Miss L made  RSA aware  she 
was going to the third party insurer directly.
Miss L said she received  a letter from RSA in October 2018 saying that the third party  had 
admitted liability in full and that if it didnt hear from her in 14 days  it would close the claim.  
Miss L said she didnt respond  to RSA and expected it to close the claim. 
The policy was due to expire on 27 March 2019 but before the policy  expired, RSA wrote to 
Miss L to say that it wouldnt  be offering  her a renewal. Miss L said RSA told her the claim 
was still open  on its system and was appearing as a fault claim. She said she reminded it of 
its October 2018 letter and RSA closed  it the claim.
Miss L is unhappy because she said when she tried to renew  her policy,  even after the claim 
was closed, RSA told her this wasnt possible as she didnt fit it underwriting criteria- but 
didnt explain why. 
Miss L then complained to us and said she wanted  an explanation as to why she doesnt fit 
RSAs underwriting  criteria. She said she would also like an apology and for it to admit it 
treated her unfairly and compensate her for the distress and inconvenience it caused  her. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think RSA acted  fairly  and reasonably. 
He reviewed RSAs underwriting criteria and said it didnt  explain  why Miss L wasnt offered 
a renewal. RSA said when taking into account previous claims made by the other  named  
drivers (which it knew about) and Miss Ls non-fault claim, a renewal wouldnt be offered. 
Our investigator didnt  agree and said a renewal could still have been offered but only to 
Miss L and that RSA could have excluded the named drivers.  
RSA wasnt able to show the premium it wouldve  charged Miss L had that been the case. 
But as Miss Ls new insurance premium  (with  a different insurer) was cheaper than her RSA 
premium our investigator thought that it wasnt  possible to show she had definitely suffered a 
loss in relation  to the premium. But he did think RSA had caused her unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience  for having  to shop around for a new policy unnecessarily  and for 
potentially paying  a higher  premium than she would have with RSA. He thought  that it should 
pay her £200 in compensation for this. He also thought RSA should pay Miss L an additional 
£50 for the inconvenience  of having to remind it to close off the claim that was still open on 
her policy.  
Ref: DRN31865162Our investigator also thought that RSA should change the claim on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) to notification only rather than non-fault as RSA had no 
involvement in the claims process. 
RSA didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
The decision  whether  to offer someone insurance cover rests  with the insurer.  Thats not 
something we would interfere with as long as we can see that that particular consumer hasnt 
been treated unfairly or unreasonably compared  to someone in the same  situation as them. 
I appreciate Miss L wants to know the exact  reasons why RSA said it wouldnt insure her but 
this isnt something that I can share  with her. RSAs  decision not to renew is based on its 
underwriting criteria. This information  is confidential and business sensitive and if shared it 
could give its competitors  an unfair advantage. I have  seen  this criteria and I agree with our 
investigator that RSA couldve  offered Miss L a renewal if it removed the named  drivers from 
the policy. On balance, I think this is something Miss L may have considered as she made it 
clear that she was quite  keen to renew her existing policy. 
I note that Miss L was able to get cheaper  cover  elsewhere and without knowing what  RSAs  
renewal premium wouldve been  its not possible to say that she lost out financially as a 
result of RSAs actions. But I also think  its likely  that Miss L would have received a new 
customer discount from her new insurer that shes unlikely to have got with RSA.
However, as I said above, RSA didnt point out to Miss L that it couldve insured her but on 
different terms. RSA was aware that Miss L was keen to renew with it and I think  it could 
have considered the option of removing her named drivers- or at least  suggesting that to her. 
Also, I appreciate  it couldnt explain in detail  why she wasnt  eligible for renewal but think  
RSA couldve at least explained why it wasnt able to provide details regarding  its 
underwriting criteria to Miss L. I think this would have limited the amount of distress  she 
experienced. Especially  because  at some point after it told her it wouldnt renew her policy, 
RSA mistakenly wrote  to Miss L reminding her to renew it.
RSA also kept the May 2018 claim open a lot longer than it should have and despite saying 
it would  be closed in October 2018.  RSA said it can take six months  to close a case  
depending on issues with the third party. But RSA was aware,  very early on, of the fact that 
the third party  insurer  had admitted liability and also that it was dealing  with Miss L directly. 
So it knew  that it didnt  have an outlay to recover. For that reason I think it had enough 
information to close the file earlier therefore preventing it from appearing as a fault claim on 
Miss Ls record at renewal. I appreciate  RSA has closed  the claim but this wasnt until Miss L 
complained. If Miss L was still under the impression that the file had been closed in 
October 2018 she couldve misrepresented her circumstances to her new insurer. 
In the circumstances I think RSA should pay Miss L £250 for the distress and inconvenience  
it caused her. 
Ref: DRN31865163I also agree  with our investigator that this incident should be logged as notification  only on 
CUE rather than non- fault. This is because RSA had no involvement  in it.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc must  do the following:
Pay Miss L £250 for the distress  and inconvenience it caused her. 
Note the claim as notification only on CUE.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss L accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
*If Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should  tell Miss L how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Miss L a tax deduction  
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3186516