K820x#14complaint
Mrs As complaint is about a claim she made on her Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
For the avoidance of doubt all references  to IPA include their claims handlers. 
background
Mrs As complaint is about a claim she made on her legal expenses  insurance policy for 
cover to defend  proceedings  brought against her by a parking company. IPA considered  her 
claim and said there  was no cover available  for the event  Mrs A wanted  to claim for. Mrs A 
also asked IPA to consider a claim under the data protection section of her policy. IPA did 
this but concluded that the cost of such proceedings would  be disproportionate to pursue. So 
they declined  to cover them.
Our investigator assessed Mrs As complaint and said he didnt think  it should be upheld.  He 
listed the sections  of Mrs As policy and explained  that none  of those provided any cover for 
the claim she was looking  to defend. He also said the data protection section of the policy 
didnt apply because  Mrs A hadnt  suffered financial loss. And in any event the likely costs in 
pursuing or defending any claims about  this issue wouldnt be proportionate to the value of 
any claim.
Mrs A doesnt agree.  She says the value of her claim would exceed  the £175  she initially  
said she was being pursued for. Shes  told us that although the proceedings brought  against  
her have now been settled through court mediation, she still wants to make  a claim under 
the data protection section of the policy. She feels shes due compensation for distress  and 
that her costs in dealing  with the claim against  her and any claims she wishes to make going 
forward should be taken  into account when valuing her claim. 
Our investigator asked  IPA to obtain  a legal opinion on the data protection  claim Mrs A 
wants to bring. IPA did this. The advice was that this claim wasnt proportionate to pursue. 
Mrs A is unhappy with this because  she feels  she shouldve had the opportunity to speak 
directly with the solicitors  who provided  that advice  before they did so. Shes also unhappy 
that IPA didnt tell her about the potential for receiving a payment  in lieu of proceeding with 
her case  with the parking company.  Because of this the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding it. 
Ill explain  why.
Mrs A wanted to claim for two courses  of action; defending a claim against  her for £175 in 
respect of a parking ticket and making  a claim against the parking company for breach of 
data protection  laws.   
Ive considered the policy terms in relation to the first claim and Im satisfied that this isnt a 
situation that Mrs As policy wouldve covered. So I dont think IPA did anything  wrong  by 
declining this claim. I understand that the matter has now been settled by way of mediation 
but that Mrs A is unhappy she wasnt told about the possibility  of receiving payment in lieu of 
Ref: DRN32711152these proceedings.  Because  the claim wasnt one that wouldve been covered  by the policy, 
this wouldnt have been something IPA wouldve explored with her- and I wouldnt have 
expected to see them to do this in the circumstances.
I know that Mrs A now wants to pursue a claim against the parking company for breach of 
data protection  laws but I dont think IPA have to cover  this claim. The advice theyve  
obtained is that the value  of any claim would be disproportionate to the costs involved. I 
appreciate that Mrs A is unhappy she wasnt given the opportunity  to speak  with the 
solicitors who gave  that advice before they did, but based on the type of claim she wanted to 
make and the information shed provided,  Im satisfied that they had enough to properly  
assess whether her claim would be proportionate  to pursue.  The  policy excludes cover  for 
circumstances where  an advisors costs  would be more than the amount in dispute. So I 
dont think IPA did anything wrong  either by turning down the claim or relying on the advice 
they were given from a firm of solicitors.  If Mrs A is able to provide IPA with an alternative 
solicitors opinion confirming the value of her claim will exceed the costs required to pursue 
it, then Id expect IPA to reconsider their position.  But until then I dont think  they should do 
anything further.  
Mrs A has referenced  her costs as a litigant in person being  relevant to the issues  in this 
complaint. But I dont agree. Any costs applicable to her time in dealing with a claim against 
her wont  form part of a claim against  the parking company for breach  of data protection laws 
because those costs  are distinct from an award  of damages arising out of that claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs As complaint against  Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3271115