K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about four PPI policies that Nationwide  Building Society  sold to 
Mr S and Miss T, in connection with mortgages on different properties.
background
In January 1997, Mr S took out a mortgage  with Nationwide. 
In June 2003, Mr S and Miss T applied  to make Miss T a joint party to the mortgage. At the 
same time, they also applied for PPI when they arranged to borrow  some extra money  on 
the mortgage account. This was set up for them in August 2003 when Miss T was added on 
to the mortgage.  The policy provided  cover for both Mr S and Miss T against  accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
In September  2003 Mr S and Miss T applied for another mortgage  with Nationwide and they 
arranged PPI at the same  time to protect  the mortgage monthly repayments. The policy  
again provided cover for both Mr S and Miss T against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment.
In March 2004 Mr S and Miss T took out a further mortgage with Nationwide  and they 
arranged PPI at the same  time to protect  the mortgage monthly repayments. The policy  once 
more provided cover  for both Mr S and Miss T against accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
In August  2005  Mr S and Miss T applied to take out another  mortgage with Nationwide and 
they arranged  PPI at the same time to protect the mortgage monthly repayments. Again, the 
policy provided cover for both Mr S and Miss T against accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Mr S and Miss T told our adjudicator that they wanted us to investigate  the sale of all the four 
policies sold to them. And theyre  also concerned that Mr S has paid for cover that he feels  
he couldnt have  benefitted from after he became self employed in 2006. Nationwide has 
already upheld Mr S and Miss Ts complaint about the sale of the PPI they took out from 
2010 and has offered  to repay  the premiums for that cover (with appropriate interest)   as it 
may by now have done  so I dont need to deal with that issue in this decision. 
Our adjudicator looked into what had happened  but didnt uphold any part of Mr S and 
Miss Ts complaint. 
Mr S and Miss T disagreed with our adjudicator. The complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, Im planning  not to uphold any part of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN33894522what happened  in June  2003
Mr S and Miss T took out the PPI when they applied for some extra borrowing on the 
mortgage account at the same time as they arranged  for the mortgage to be transferred into 
their joint names, in a Nationwide  branch.  
Ive seen the paperwork they completed.  Their transfer of equity application  offered them the 
choice of having PPI or saying that they didnt want it. The form is ticked  to show that 
Mr S and Miss T wanted PPI and theyve  both signed to confirm  that the form reflected their 
wishes. 
And they also both signed a separate application  to have PPI added  on to their mortgage 
account and confirming the type,  amount and period of cover and benefit split they wanted. 
Bearing in mind also that Mr S had originally taken  out this mortgage without PPI, I think  they 
wouldve been aware that it was up to them to say if they now wanted PPI. And the 
paperwork Ive seen  shows that they chose  to take out the policy, knowing it was optional.
I dont think its likely  that Nationwide  advised Mr S and Miss T to take out PPI. So it didnt 
have to check the PPI was suitable  for them. But it still had to make sure it told them enough 
about the policy for them to decide if they wanted to buy it. 
They were  both eligible  for the cover.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover but it 
doesnt look as if this affected Mr S and Miss T. So I dont  think  having more  information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve put Mr S and Miss T off taking it out. 
They say they both had good  sick pay arrangements  through work  full sick pay for 
6 months then half pay for the next 6 months.  But I think  PPI still couldve been useful. It 
couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months  per claim in the event of accident  and sickness.  
So the PPI provided better protection than Mr S and Miss T couldve relied on getting  
through their employers.  And it wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay, providing them with 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if they mightve had some extra costs as a 
result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI couldve also paid out the amount of monthly  benefit theyd selected for up to 12 months 
for any one claim if Mr S and/or Miss T became unexpectedly unemployed, on top of any 
redundancy pay they mightve got. And they couldve made repeated  claims on the policy , 
giving them long term protection for their mortgage.
I cant be sure they wouldve always had savings to fall back on if they werent able to work 
as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mr S and Miss T mentioned having life and critical illness cover when they first complained  
to Nationwide. But these  policies provided  a different sort of cover  and paid out in different 
circumstances to PPI. So this information doesnt affect my decision.  
Ref: DRN33894523And it looks like they preferred not to spend  their savings, or possibly they had other plans 
for that money, since  they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings to 
reduce their borrowing. Having PPI meant  Mr S and Miss T could depend  on being able to 
continue to keep  savings intact  to spend on other things or to provide financial security for 
the future.  So I can see why they mightve wanted  to take out the policy.  Taking into account 
what theyve told us about their situation at the time,  I think the PPI couldve provided them 
with a useful benefit.  
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr S and Miss T when they bought  the policy.  
But, from what Ive seen,  they havent  suggested that they couldnt afford  the monthly 
premiums. The mortgage was a major financial commitment,  due to run for a long period of 
time. And their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection than they had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr S and Miss T mightve wanted to have PPI. 
what happened  in September2003
In September  2003, Mr S and Miss T took out PPI when applying  for a mortgage with 
Nationwide when they moved house. The policy provided cover  in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim. The policy  benefits were  shared 
equally between them. 
Nationwide offered this policy free of charge to Mr S and Miss T for the first 12 months. 
Nationwides records show that Mr S and Miss T cancelled the policy  before they had to start 
paying for it because  they moved  house  and took out a new mortgage and PPI policy in May 
2004. This means that whether or not there were any shortcomings  with the sale, Mr S and 
Miss T didnt lose out financially as a result of taking out this PPI. So I dont need to say 
anything more about this sale because theres nothing Nationwide needs to do to put things 
right for Mr S and Miss T as they arent any worse off as a result of having  this PPI. 
what happened  in March 2004
In May 2004, Mr S and Miss T took out PPI when applying for a mortgage with Nationwide 
when they moved  house again. The policy provided cover  for each of them  for up to 
12 months per claim. 
Mr S and Miss T applied  for accident, sickness, and unemployment cover. They  specified  
the amount of monthly benefit required and both applied for the cover. They  both signed  the 
completed mortgage application  to get the insurance  theyd chosen  added on to their 
mortgage. 
Details of the PPI theyd  applied  for were shown  in and sent with their mortgage  offer.  And 
Ive also seen a copy of the Mortgage Product Confirmation Document Nationwide sent 
them which provided  them with a summary of the cover theyd taken out. Mr S and Miss T 
have both signed this. So I think Mr S and Miss T understood that the PPI was optional and 
it was added to their mortgage  at their request.
Nationwide didnt in my view personally advise Mr S and Miss T to take out this PPI. But it 
still had to make sure it told them enough about the policy for them to decide  if they wanted  
to buy it. 
Ref: DRN33894524As far as I can see their circumstances were broadly the same as on the earlier sales. The 
new policy gave Mr S and Miss T essentially  the same benefits  and it provided  them  with the 
long term protection  they had taken out previously. Mr S and Miss T continued to be able to 
take advantage of all the benefits under the policy.  
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way Nationwide 
sold them  this PPI, I dont  think that better information wouldve put Mr S and Miss T off 
having it. 
The policy was free of charge to Mr S and Miss T for the first 12 months and I think  its likely  
Nationwide told them the cost of the monthly  premiums before they had to start paying for 
the policy. So Mr S and Miss T wouldve been  able to decide if they wanted to keep the 
policy running  and they couldve cancelled  it at no cost if they hadnt wanted  to start paying  
for it. 
what happened  in August 2005
In August  2005  Mr S and Miss T took out PPI when  applying for a new mortgage with 
Nationwide. The policy provided  cover for each of them for up to 12 months  per claim. 
On their mortgage application Mr S and Miss T asked for accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. They specified the amount of monthly benefit required and both 
applied for the cover  to be shared equally between them. They  both signed the completed 
application. 
Details of the PPI theyd  applied  for were shown  in their mortgage  offer under the heading 
Optional Insurance. So I think Mr S and Miss T wouldve again been  aware  that the PPI 
was optional and it was added to their mortgage  at their request.
Nationwide didnt in my view personally recommend Mr S and Miss T to take out this PPI. 
But it still needed to give them clear  enough information about the policy for them  to decide if 
they wanted to buy it. 
It looks like their circumstances continued  to be broadly the same. The new policy gave  
Mr S and Miss T cover  in the event of accident, sickness  or unemployment for up to 12 
months for each successful claim.  And repeat claims were possible, giving them long term 
protection whilst  they were paying for their home. Mr S and Miss T continued to be able to 
take advantage of all the benefits under the policy.  
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way Nationwide 
sold them  this PPI, I dont  think that better information wouldve put Mr S and Miss T off 
having it. 
Nationwide gave Mr S and Miss T an indication of the PPI cost when it sent them a 
Customer Information Document which showed  what the monthly premiums would be after 
the first 3 months when the policy  was free of charge to Mr S and Miss T. 
This information was also included  in their mortgage offer.  So before they had to start paying 
for the policy Mr S and Miss T wouldve  been able to decide  if they wanted  to keep the policy  
running or cancel it at no cost if they hadnt  wanted to start paying  for it. 
Ref: DRN33894525And as this was a policy they paid for each month, Mr S and Miss T were  able to cancel the 
policy at any time at no extra cost if their circumstances  changed  or they no longer wanted to 
pay to have the benefits that PPI offered them.
Mr S told us that he became self-employed after this policy had been set up. And hes 
concerned that this affected his ability to make an unemployment claim on the policy.  But 
Ive checked the policy  details and I can see that the insurance did cover people  who were  
self-employed. 
 
Heres what it says in the policy document that its likely wouldve applied  to Mr S:
2) If you are self-employed  and make  an unemployment  claim you must also provide 
evidence that:
 you could not find enough work  to meet all your  reasonable business and living 
expenses  and declared this to the Inland Revenue , and
 the unemployment  is not a normal seasonal occurrence or a normal incident in 
your occupation.
I dont think those are unreasonable terms or that it wouldve been any harder for Mr S to 
make a claim for unemployment than it wouldve been for someone who was employed. 
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the policy terms wouldve made it any more  difficult  for 
someone who owned their own business to make a claim. So I hope this puts Mr Ss mind at 
rest on this point. For as long as he was paying  for this PPI policy  I think he wouldve been 
able to claim in all the circumstances he would reasonably  have expected to. 
Mr S and Miss T mentioned some  other  things during the course  of this complaint and I can 
see that our adjudicator has already  responded on those issues. In particular, Mr S 
complained that Nationwide didnt  take him off the policy when he asked it to, after he 
became self-employed.
Its possible Mr Ss recollection is correct and he did make such  a request in or around 2006.  
But Nationwide has told us it has no record of him doing that. And even if Nationwide 
became aware  in or around 2006 that hed become self-employed, he would still have been  
covered under the PPI policy. So I dont  think I can fairly and reasonably say Nationwide 
shouldve removed him from the policy  then,  although it did so at his later request in 2010.  
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  them,  I think  it unlikely Mr S and Miss T 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think theyd still have  taken out the policies. So, I dont find theyve lost out as a result  of 
anything Nationwide  may have done wrong when it sold these policies to Mr S and Miss T.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment for Mr S and Miss T. But 
I hope that setting  out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN33894526what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr S has responded to my provisional  decision. He disagrees with what Ive said.  In 
particular, he still feels strongly  that as he had started his own business (which he says he 
explained to Nationwide in 2006) the policy wasnt something he would  ever have claimed  
on.
Nationwide Building  Society hasnt made any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr S has said in response to my provisional decision. 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision why I dont think that running his own business  
meant that Mr S wouldnt have been  able to claim on the policy   I think  he couldve done. 
And Mr S hasnt said anything else, or told me any new information, that makes me think this 
is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably uphold.
As no further  comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
have changed  my overall view, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3389452