K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the wording of his landlord insurance provided  by Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) as, in respect of a proposed claim for escape  of water, it didnt  
cover his loss of rent or alternative accommodation.
background
In November 2018 the boiler at Mr Ms tenanted  property broke down due to what he 
described as an internal  escape of water. This caused the electrics to go down. He called 
out the manufacturers of the boiler  whose service engineer confirmed  it was beyond repair. 
As it was only six months old, a replacement was fitted by the manufacturers. The property 
was without heating  or hot water for ten days.  Mr M agreed to suspend his tenants  rent for 
that period and for part of that time the tenant  found accommodation elsewhere.
Mr M called the administrators of his policy and asked about making a claim for escape of 
water. There  was no other damage to the property. He was advised that the escape  of water 
term in the policy didnt cover the fixed water installation itself which is what the boiler was. 
Mr M said he couldnt understand  this  the damage  and consequential  loss of rent was due 
to an escape of water. His complaint was passed on to RSA who confirmed  that it wouldnt 
meet a claim in those  circumstances. Mr M was annoyed about that  he said he hadnt 
made a claim, and that his complaint was about the wording  in the policy.
On referral to this service  Mr M advised  that the boiler manufacturer  had paid him £250 
compensation. Our investigator advised  that RSA as the underwriter was responsible for the 
wording in the policy. He said that under the terms of the policy there  was no escape of 
water from the boiler. The escape  of water term had an exclusion for damage to the fixed 
domestic water installation unless freezing has occurred. 
Mr M didnt  agree, he thought that the policy covered escape of water  and there had been 
such an escape.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Ms complaint is not that RSA has declined his claim,  as he has never 
put in a claim. His complaint is about the wording  of the policy  which he believes would have 
covered his claim, he doesnt feel that it is any different from a burst  pipe.
As RSA  is responsible  for the wording in the policy the complaint is correctly  made  against  
RSA. The wording of the escape of water term is:
Escape of water from, or the freezing of water in washing machines, dishwashers or
any fixed domestic water or heating installation.
I think a boiler can fairly be described as a domestic  water or heating installation.  Any 
escape of water from it which causes damage  to the building (or contents if covered) would 
come under this term. But here there was what Mr M described as an internal escape of 
Ref: DRN36757632water which put the boiler out of action. There is an exclusion to the escape of water cover 
where the insurer wont pay for:
Damage to the fixed domestic water installation or pipework unless freezing has occurred.
Its a fairly common exclusion in most home  or landlords insurance policies. The insurer  
generally wont pay for the damaged  pipe or fixed water or heating installation.  The escape  
of water term is intended to cover  damage  to the building/contents but not to the 
pipework/installation itself. The same would  apply to a burst pipe  the repair  to the pipe 
itself wouldnt be covered. Mr M might be able to get cover  for the boiler  itself whether as an 
add-on to a policy or separately. But that would only cover the repairs, not other losses such  
as loss of rent.
The policy covers loss of rent and/or  alternative accommodation for tenants If the insured 
property is made uninhabitable  by any insured  cause But as the cause isnt insured there 
is no cover  for loss of rent or alternative  accommodation  either.
I understand that Mr M has had the boiler replaced and has been paid compensation by the 
manufacturers which should  go at least some way to covering any losses.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3675763