K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a store 
card PPI (payment protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs S took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 
March 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs S says she cant remember  anything about  the sale but feels  certain that she must have 
been misled or pressured into taking out the policy. However Ive seen  a copy of Mrs Ss 
application form for the store card. It has a separate section for PPI and Mrs S has signed a 
box in that section to request the policy. She could have left the box blank if she didnt want 
the PPI. Beneath the PPI section there  was another section for a different sort of insurance, 
but Mrs S hasnt completed  that section. If, as Mrs S suggests,  she was misled into taking 
out insurance cover, I might have  expected  her to end up with all the available insurance 
options.
The sale happened a long time ago and Mrs S has herself said that she cant  remember  
anything about  it. Based on the available evidence, I think  that FICL made Mrs S aware  that 
she had a choice about buying the PPI  and the way that the application form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Mrs S probably decided  to buy it, knowing  that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs S, so it didnt need to ensure  that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Ref: DRN35441202Mrs S would have received between three  and six months sick pay from her job. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs S would 
have received full pay for. Mrs S says she had some savings, but the policy would have 
allowed her to retain these or use them to pay for other household bills at what  would  have 
been a difficult  time.  Mrs S has said that her husband and parents would have been able to 
help, but other people  cant  always  be relied on as their circumstances can change.  Overall  I 
think Mrs S had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted from it if shed been unable 
to work due to illness or if shed lost her job. And she seems to have  found  the policy 
affordable.
Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs S wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mrs S had an interest in the policy  and decided to buy it, I dont think  that better 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs S isnt any worse  off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
Mrs S says shes  had other  complaints about  PPI upheld, so why isnt the one against FICL  
being upheld.  All I can say is that we look at complaints on a case by case  basis  and, based  
on the evidence  provided about this complaint, I dont think  that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3544120