K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms N say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Ms N took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005.  Mr and Ms N paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both in case  
either of them  was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Ms Ns case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Ms Ns PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see that Lloyds  adviser went through Mr and Ms Ns circumstances and recommended  
PPI to them  and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement. They didnt have to 
apply for PPI as part of the mortgage  application.  Mr and Ms N signed and submitted a 
separate application specifically for PPI, along with a direct debit mandate to pay for it, 
separately to paying for the mortgage itself. So I think that Lloyds made Mr and Ms N aware 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  even if, 
understandably, they no longer remember doing  so.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms N, so it had to check  it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, they 
werent affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. They  said they mightve  
already had an equivalent insurance  policy in place, but the documents  from the time record 
them as saying they did not have  any other  similar  insurance, and they were not able to 
provide any evidence of another policy. So I think its most  likely that they didnt have 
alternative cover. I understand  Ms N was entitled to some benefits through  work, but the PPI 
covered her for longer  and paid out on top. And Mr N doesnt appear to have  had any other 
protection in case  he was off sick or lost his job. Its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr and 
Ms N fell behind on their mortgage  payments,  they risked losing their home. So I think the 
PPI couldve really  been useful for them in protecting  their home  and giving peace  of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Ms N about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr and Ms N chose to buy PPI, so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. As I explained above, they werent  affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for them  in case  something went wrong.  
And if Mr or Ms Ns circumstances changed, they could  amend or cancel the policy  at any 
time without  a penalty. So I dont think that better information wouldve put them off taking 
out the cover.
Ref: DRN35090872my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3509087