K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has held him partially  responsible for 
an accident after he made a claim on his car insurance policy.  
background
In 2015 Mr M was involved in an accident  with another car and he claimed for the damage 
on his car insurance  policy. He also instructed  a solicitor  firm to pursue  his personal injury  
claim as he didnt have  legal expenses cover under his policy. Mr M held the other driver 
responsible for the accident. He provided  photographs of the scene, showing the location  of 
his car, the other cars skid marks and location  of debris in the road, which  he says shows  
that the other driver  was on his side of the road when the accident happened.
Liability for the accident was in dispute. UKI initially told the other drivers insurer  that it held 
the other driver responsible for the accident.  But the other insurer  said it felt it should be 
settled under a 50/50 split liability decision. UKI subsequently decided  to settle the claim on 
a split liability basis. It said that there wasnt enough evidence to be able to hold the other 
driver fully at fault.  And it said that there  was an independent witness  whod said that both 
drivers were at fault for the accident.
In August  2018  Mr M contacted  UKI to complain  that hed been found at fault for the 
accident. He said his solicitors had recovered his losses in full so he thought  the matter was 
resolved. So he didnt think the claim file should have recorded him as being at fault. He 
maintained that the photos  he provided showed  that he wasnt at fault for the accident and 
he thinks UKI should have  done  more to defend the claim.
UKI reviewed Mr Ms complaint but still thought the decision to settle on a 50/50 split liability  
basis was fair. It reiterated  that there was an independent witness  statement who said that 
both drivers were in the middle of the road and he thought they were both at fault.
Mr M didnt  agree with UKI and asked  this service to step in. And he raised the following 
points:
UKI says that the independent  witness states he and the other party  were  both in the 
middle of the road. But he maintains that they were not, as he says hed moved as far as 
possible to the left to get out of the way of the other  car, which  he says is clearly  shown  
in the photographic evidence he provided.
He said the other  driver crashed into him as he exited a bend  he was approaching. Mr M 
said that the witness was behind the other driver, so couldn't  see the position of both 
cars.
UKI said that the other driver's solicitors advised that his injury claim went  to court and 
the judge "threw the case  out" saying it should have settled on a 50/50 basis. But he said 
that his personal injury claim  didn't go to court as the other party settled  Mr Ms injury 
claim in full two weeks prior to the court case. So he said a judge didnt hear the 
proceedings.
He says UKI said that he could have moved his car after the accident. So it couldnt say 
the position of my car shown  in the photographs  was where the accident actually 
occurred. But he says he couldnt have moved  the car as it was a write of and was 
completely immobile.  
Ref: DRN34706992Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said this service cant say who was at fault 
for the accident,  but will look at whether an insurer has taken everything into account. And 
she thought UKI had done so before it came  to the decision  it did.
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He doesnt think the independent witnesss  
statement was a fair reflection of what happened and was open to interpretation. He said 
hed provided  physical evidence of the crash site, showing clearly  the position  of his car 
(which he says was written off as immobile) and skid marks on the road which clearly show  
the other drivers car.
He doesnt think  UKI has taken these into account.  He commented that the other driver was 
also insured by UKI. And he thinks UKI has taken the easier route to settle on a 50/50 basis 
for two companies under UKI rather than try to spend the time correctly resolving liability. He 
says this is unfair and he doesnt believe UKI would  have conceded liability  so easily  if the 
other driver wasnt insured by another insurer from the UKI group.
Secondly, he commented that the other  drivers solicitor said that the judge threw the claim 
out of court.  But he reiterated hed already stated it didnt go to court.  And he maintains that 
he received his full injury  claim  in an out of court settlement. He said he believes its unfair  
that his insurers  accepted  the other drivers  solicitors inaccurate statement. 
Mr M said that he employed a no win no fee solicitor who took on his case as they thought  
he had a strong case. He says no one from UKI made any attempt to contact his solicitor  to 
corroborate the other solicitors statements.  And  he reiterated that this was unfair and was 
only done as it was two insurers from the same brand.
As he didnt  agree, the complaints been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  UKI has carried out a 
fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision. I 
appreciate Mr M feels strongly  that he wasnt at fault for the accident, but Im not able to say 
whether he was at fault or not, but Ive looked  at whether UKI has taken everything  into 
account.
Mr M policy, like all other car insurance  policies, allows UKI to take over and carry out the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the 
best terms it thinks fit. And it has the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it 
must exercise this right fairly  and reasonably.
I note Mr M thinks UKI has taken the easy option to settle the claim on a split liability basis 
because both drivers were insured by UKI. But I dont agree. Its internal records show that it 
did review the claim separately and Im satisfied that its decision wasnt  influenced  by the 
fact that the other driver was also insured by UKI.
Ref: DRN34706993UKI did initially look to try and defend the claim in full. But the file also shows  that it 
explained to Mr M early on in the claim that it thought the claim would  be ultimately settled 
on a split liability basis. It said that on the evidence  available,  it wasnt a matter it would want  
to litigate on. In particular  it referred to the fact that the independent witness  said both parties 
were at fault for the accident. Im satisfied that it did take Mr Ms evidence into account 
before coming  to the conclusion it did. And, while I note Mr Ms comments about why he 
doesnt think it should have conceded  liability,  I cant  say thats decision was unfair.
Ive also taken Mr Ms comments  that his personal injury claim was settled in full and it was 
wrong for the other drivers solicitor to say a judge threw  the claim out. I dont dispute this, 
but it wasnt UKI who said this. And UKI said to Mr M that it didnt know  why the solicitor  said 
that. I can also see that UKI did discuss this claim with Mr Ms solicitor  throughout the 
matter. And UKI was still entitled to make the decision it did.
Ultimately, while I appreciate Mr M feels strongly he wasnt at fault for this accident, I cant 
say that UKI has treated  him unfairly in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3470699