K821x#15complaint 
Mr C has complained that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 19 December 2019 explaining why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld  in part. Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision and it forms part of 
this decision.
Uncle Buck  didnt respond. Mr C did respond and he thought that the second  loan should  
also have been  upheld. He said that hed taken out many  loans  and credit  cards prior to 
applying for his second loan, so says that Uncle Buck shouldve seen these loans when it 
carried out its credit check and in turn not agreed to lend to him.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I remain  of the view 
that only the third loan should not have been  lent to Mr C. I will explain why.
Mr C has provided evidence  of a large number of loans and credit  cards that hed taken  out 
prior to the loans.  Mr C says that Uncle Buck shouldve seen all of this debt - not just other 
short term loans - when  it completed its credit  check and should not have lent loan 2 to him. 
I can see that when  he applied for the second loan, Mr C told Uncle  Buck that he had around 
£250 in monthly  expenditure  on credit  cards and other debts. However, when Uncle  Buck 
assessed his loan application,  it completed  a credit  check and the information  from the credit  
reference agency suggested  that he had monthly credit commitments  of around £738.  So 
Uncle Buck  was aware of Mr Cs other  borrowing commitments when it carried out its credit  
check. However, even  when the increased amount  was considered  alongside the other  
monthly expenditure information Mr C had provided,  the loan still looked  to have been 
affordable for him. And I would also like to remind Mr C that the second loan was:
taken out in the early stages of the lending relationship; 
for a lower amount than the first loan; and 
there was a gap of a few months between repaying the first loan and the second.
Bearing all of this in mind, I dont  think that it was unreasonable for Uncle Buck  to have relied 
on what it had gathered, and I dont think  that it needed to do more  in order for its checks to 
have been proportionate.  Therefore, having  considered what  Mr C has said and provided,  I 
remain of the view that Uncle Buck should not have lent him loan three i.e. the loan given to 
him on 4 November 2018.
Putting things  right
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr C loan 3. So I require  Uncle  Buck to put matters right as 
follows:
A)Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 3, including payments made  to a third party where 
applicable, but not including  anything Uncle Buck has already refunded.
Ref: DRN37422882B)Uncle Buck should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Mr C which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C)Uncle Buck should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D)Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mr Cs credit 
file in relation  to loan 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr C a certificate  
showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr C asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
in part and require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to do what I have set out above to put matters  
right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37422883Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr C has complained that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Mr C took out three loans  with Uncle Buck. His borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan number Amount borrowed Date lent Date  repaid
Instalment  loan 1 £300 28 December  2017 16 January 2018
Instalment  loan 2 £200 13 June 2018 28 September  2018
Instalment  loan 3 £300 4 November 2018 18 April 2019
Our adjudicator ultimately upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought  that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt  
have been given to him. Uncle Buck disagreed  and so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Although, as there were only 3 loans 
taken out, with a 5 month break between loans 1 and 2, I dont think that point was reached  
with Mr Cs loans.
Ref: DRN37422884Nevertheless, I think that it is important for me to start by saying  that Uncle Buck  was 
required to establish  whether Mr C could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were  affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  And I currently  think  that had Uncle  
Buck carried  out proportionate checks,  it would not have agreed to lend the third loan to 
Mr C.
I say this because  for the first loan,  the most Mr C was required to repay in a month (the loan 
was due to be repaid  over three  months)  was £149.76. And based on the monthly income 
and expenditure  information Mr C provided, he had £500 of disposable income each  month 
to use towards repaying his loan. So, based on the information Mr C provided to Uncle  Buck 
at the time, the loans look to have  been affordable. And although Uncle Buck  did also carry 
out a credit check as well, Ive not seen anything in the results that wouldve made it clear 
that Mr C could not sustainably repay the loan.  For example, there was an outstanding  
balance of £364 on a short-term loan.  But this looks to have been an old debt that Mr C was 
not necessarily required  to repay (or was repaying) over the course of the Uncle Buck  loan.
Turning to the second loan, this loan was taken  out around 5 months after Mr C had repaid 
loan 1; the amount Mr C had to repay was lower than the first loan - with the highest monthly 
repayment being £75.81  a month; and it was due to be repaid over a period of 4 months. 
And looking at the income and expenditure information Mr C provided,  it again looked 
affordable. And given  all of the above  factors, I think it was not unreasonable for Uncle  Buck 
to have relied on this information to decide that Mr C could afford to repay the loan. 
I understand the adjudicator upheld  this loan, on the basis that Uncle Bucks credit  check  
showed that Mr C had three outstanding  loans. Uncle Buck  disagreed that is what  their credit 
check showed. I have  looked through the credit check results and, based on my 
understanding of how the results should  be interpreted, it does show  that Mr C had taken out 
3 Short term loans in the 50 days prior to the credit  check. But it also showed  that hed 
repaid them,  and he only had one active short-term  loan left - which looks  to have been 
(because it was for the same amount)  the same debt that was present when Mr C had taken 
out his first loan. Therefore, although  Mr C mayve  had other short term loans that didnt 
show up in the credit check, based  on what Uncle Buck was presented with in its credit  
check at the time, I think that Uncle Bucks checks were proportionate and that it was not 
unreasonable for it to have lent loan 2 to Mr C.
By loan three, Mr C had borrowed  more  than he did for loan 2, so was required to repay 
more per month, and the duration of the loan had increased to 6 months. And although the 
basic income and expenditure information  suggested the loan might be affordable,  the 
results of the credit check showed that Mr C had another  outstanding short-term  loan (in 
addition to the existing debt that had showed up on the two previous checks). 
Ref: DRN37422885Given the circumstances, I think this information  shouldve prompted Uncle  Buck to carry out 
a more in depth check on the extent of Mr Cs borrowing commitments, especially those on a 
short-term basis. Had it done  so, it wouldve seen by that stage Mr C had more  short-term 
loans (alongside other forms of credit) owed to a number of short  term lenders, than the 
credit check  had showed up. And it wouldve been apparent to Uncle  Buck that Mr C would 
not have been able to sustainably repay  the third loan i.e. repay  it without having to borrow 
more or without undue  difficulties.
So taking everything into account, I currently think that loan 3 was irresponsibly lent to Mr C.   
   
Putting things  right
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr C loan 3. So I intend to require Uncle Buck  to put 
matters right as follows:
E)Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 3, including payments made  to a third party where 
applicable, but not including  anything Uncle Buck has already refunded.
F)Uncle Buck should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Mr C which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
G)Uncle Buck should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
H)Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mr Cs credit 
file in relation  to loan 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr C a certificate  
showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr C asks for one.
my provisional decision
Based on the reasons given above,  I currently think that the complaint should be upheld in 
part and intend to require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to do what  I have set out above to put 
matters right.
I now invite Mr C and Uncle Buck Finance LLP to provide any further information or 
comments they want me to consider before I make a final decision on this complaint, before 
2 January 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3742288