K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about HSBC UK Bank  Plcs actions in relation to a scam in which 
they lost £27,240.
HSBC says its not liable as Mr F it wasnt able to retrieve the money from the recipient 
banks.
background
In early May 2017,  Mr F was contacted by a company  Ill call C. They  said theyd  got his 
details from the share register of another bank he held shares in  and they were offering 
him an investment  opportunity. Mr F was considering retiring  and, based on the projections 
he was shown, thought the investment would improve his income sufficiently to allow him to 
go through with this. After several discussions and having reviewed the literature  C provided  
about their investment strategy (including  details such as the average monthly return and 
performance history), Mr F was persuaded that C were legitimate  and agreed  to invest. C 
told him the minimum investment amount was £3,000 and sent him an invoice. He paid this 
sum via online banking from his and Mrs Fs joint current  account on 10 May 2017, having  
transferred the funds  from their savings. He was then told by C that they had been taken 
over by another business, A, but this wouldnt affect  his investments. He was given login  
details (supposedly) for an online account  to track  his investments. But this was a scam. Mr 
and Mrs Fs money hadnt been  invested.
A encouraged Mr F to make a further  investment. On 8 June 2017 he made a payment of 
£24,240 using  the new bank details  provided in an invoice from A. He again  made  the 
payment from their joint account after making  several transfers from their savings. But 
shortly after,  Mr F realised  the online account wasnt showing a further £10,000 payment 
Mrs F had made from another account.  Then  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a 
warning about  A. When he questioned this, A reassured him it was being resolved. But then 
his trading account stopped working and he had difficulty contacting A. They  ignored his 
requests to return his funds. Realising  it was a scam, he contacted  HSBC.  In July 2017  it 
told him it had tried to recover the money from the recipient banks  but none remained.
Mr F also pursued the matter with the police. In June  2018, they told him the initial  £3,000 
transfer had in fact been frozen.  The beneficiary bank said they required an indemnity to 
return the funds.  But HSBC wouldnt provide this. Mr and Mrs F complained to HSBC  and, 
when it maintained its position, referred  the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  could be expected to indemnify the initial £3,000 or that it 
should have identified this transaction as suspicious. But she thought it should have realised 
that the second transfer was. If HSBC  had checked  this payment appropriately, she thought 
the loss couldve  been prevented. So she recommended  that HSBC  refund the second 
payment with interest.
HSBC didnt agree with the view. It said it couldnt  be expected to act as an amateur 
detective. It was unhappy  that the investigator referred to a code  of practice  that wasnt in 
force at the time of the transactions. And it didnt think  wed adequately considered Mr and 
Mrs Fs responsibility  for what  happened. It also questioned the scope of this complaint  
saying it was about HSBCs decision not to indemnify the £3,000  transfer rather  than its 
actions at the point of the transactions. 
Ref: DRN37176572I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2021. Regarding the scope, I explained that 
HSBCs final response referred  to both disputed transactions. And it hadnt  asked to 
consider these concerns separately  until after it would have been out of time to respond to a 
direct complaint. So I was satisfied  that we could  appropriately consider all the issues  our 
investigator addressed  within this case.  I also explained why I thought it was fair and 
reasonable to hold HSBC liable for the £24,240 loss.
I invited both parties to submit any further  points or evidence. Both sides responded to 
accept my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my 
provisional decision. Ive explained  my reasons again below.
I accept that both transactions were authorised payments even though  Mr F was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. He used his online banking security credentials to request the 
payments. So, although  he did not intend  the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  (which applied  at the time), and the terms and 
conditions of their joint account, he and Mrs F are presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Im aware that HSBC  considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying  payments  that might indicate  a consumer is at risk of financial harm;  
and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. Im mindful  that the 
courts have  interpreted  Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are 
different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of
regulatory and industry  standards  beyond  the narrow legal duties considered  in that and
other court cases.
In any event, Im not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case. However, the broad legal 
position  i.e. that a bank is expected to process  authorised payments  is not absolute; and 
Ref: DRN37176573Quincecare (along  with regulators  rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time) is an example of that.
HSBC also says its unfair that the investigator  referred to the standards  set out in BSI: PAS 
17271: 2017 Protecting customers  from financial harm as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  
- Code of practice  (the BSI Code),  as this wasnt in force at the time of the transactions  and 
HSBC didnt sign up to it. But I dont consider the BSI Code to have introduced new 
expectations or practices. Rather, it codified  what was already considered  good industry 
practice at the time  in line with standards set by the regulators and/or the majority of 
banks.
Additionally, as a regulated firm, HSBC was also required to conduct  its 'business with due 
skill, care and diligence'  (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to 'pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers' (Principle 6). Given all of this, Im satisfied the standards Ive 
applied for good  industry practice  are reasonable and relevant  to this case.
Following this approach,  Ive considered  whether HSBC should  have  made further enquiries 
before processing  the payments. I dont consider the initial  £3,000 transaction  would have 
stood out as unusual or uncharacteristic, looking at how the account was being  run in the 
months leading  up to the scam. There were several  payments of a similar value  the 
highest being £5,000.  So I dont think HSBC fairly and reasonably  had reason to enquire  
further about this payment before processing  it without  undue delay in line with the 2009 
Regulations. But I consider the second  payment of £24,240 to be significantly  out of line with 
how the account had previously been  run. It was a very large payment to a new payee, for 
an uncharacteristic amount, made immediately after Mr F had transferred  over £20,000 into 
the account  utilising  around 95% of the account  balance. These are common  indicators of 
potential fraud or scams  and I believe  that most banks,  acting  fairly  and reasonably  
towards their customers in line with good practice, would have viewed  this as suspicious 
activity at the time and taken steps to prevent the risk of harm.  
I accept that a bank  does  have a duty under  the 2009 Regulations not to delay payments 
unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable checks and balances are 
also required  as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers  fairly and to 
safeguard against  the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what  a 
bank can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers to take responsibility  for their own 
decisions  and possibly  even bear a reduction  in compensation if there  is clear  evidence of 
blame on their own part (see below).  But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic  
account activity  exist, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud  alerts  to respond 
proportionately  and that might simply include,  for example, a phone  call or discreet 
conversation for transactions in branch to check that things are okay. 
Ive therefore  considered  what would probably have happened if HSBC had intervened in the 
way it might reasonably  have done.  Had HSBC spoken to Mr F about  the £24,240 payment, 
I think its likely  given his genuine beliefs at the time  that he would simply have explained  
that it was an investment  to A (formerly C). Once told this, I would reasonably  have expected 
HSBC to, at the least, explain about how investment scams  of this type work and encourage 
him to satisfy himself  that the scheme  was legitimate. And I think  that some further 
researching and reflection by Mr F  prompted by an informed warning  from his bank  
would likely  have broken the spell of the scam. Whilst  there  was no FCA warning about A or 
C at the time, they werent properly registered with Companies House  nor were they 
regulated  significantly affecting  Mr Fs protection. Additionally, the account  names  on the 
invoices werent for A or C  two different business names were given. So if HSBC had 
Ref: DRN37176574made a suitable  intervention, Im persuaded that the bank and/or Mr F would  have become 
suspicious about this investment company and wouldnt  have proceeded with the second 
payment  preventing that loss.
Ive also considered whether HSBC did enough  to recover the lost funds. At the time Mr and 
Mrs F reported the scam,  HSBC said the funds didnt remain. Theyve  since been told by the 
police that the initial  £3,000 is frozen and so hadnt been transferred on by the time they 
reported the scam. But the recipient bank wont send this back unless HSBC provides an 
indemnity for the funds. Its not required to provide this, nor would we expect it to in line with 
good industry practice. All things considered,  I dont  consider HSBC  responsible  for the 
£3,000 loss. Its possible Mr and Mrs F may be able to pursue the receiving bank  directly  to 
recover this frozen sum  though not through our service I am afraid,  as we have no 
jurisdiction over complaints about  payee banks  in relation to payment services from this 
period. The rules and regulations have since changed but arent retrospective, so dont help 
Mr and Mrs F.
HSBC has questioned Mr Fs responsibility  for the loss. But at the time of the transactions,  
he considered  them  to be for legitimate  investments. Hes shown me the investment 
literature provided  by C and A, which he considered professional. He had several 
conversations with C before investing,  further reassuring him it was genuine.  And he also 
believed the online account was allowing him to track the investments. There were no FCA 
warnings at the time of either transaction. Im satisfied he didnt foresee the risk of this sort of 
harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. Unlike the bank, Mr F wouldnt have 
been aware of the warning signs that the investment could be a scam. So, on the particular 
facts of this individual case,  I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for some of the 
loss due to any blameworthy acts or omissions  by Mr F. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr and 
Mrs F for the £24,240 payment they made to the scammer. That is the point at which,  in my 
view, the bank ought reasonably to have intervened and thereby prevented  the loss. As the 
money was largely  transferred from savings accounts, those rates  of interest should  be 
applied to the refund  to reflect the actual loss of interest on those funds. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and 
direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to:
Refund Mr and Mrs F for the £24,240 payment; and
Pay the relevant account interest  rates on this amount from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2021.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3717657