K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four high cost loans  Sunny  provided to Mr R between March 2016  
and July 2017 Mr Rs borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Highest Repayment Made
1 25/03/2016 29/04/2016 14 £1,000.00 £143.28
2 11/04/2016 31/05/2017 14 £1,000.00 £278.92
3 04/09/2016 31/07/2017 14 £200.00 £163.42
4 25/07/2017 31/08/2017 9 £400.00 £116.79
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought  loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have 
been given. Sunny disagreed and as the matter  couldnt be resolved informally,  the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN36959402There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. Having done  so, Im partially upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had carried out proportionate checks  for loans 1 and 2.  Mr R 
didnt disagree  with the view. As there is no dispute  with the adjudicators opinion about  
these loans, I wont be making any findings  on these  loans. 
Sunny says it carried out checks before  it lent loan 3 to Mr R and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns.  But this was Mr Rs third loan in six months so I think Sunny 
should have been looking to build  a clearer picture  than this about Mr Rs finances  before 
lending him this loan. 
Had Sunny  carried  out proportionate checks before lending loan 3, its likely to have found 
that Mr Rs regular spending was exceeding his monthly income. And he was in a cycle  of 
debt and the further borrowing was to cover the hole that prepaying  his previous loans was 
leaving in his finances. 
Additionally, the combined repayments for loans 2 and 3 were more than the disposable 
income Mr R had left after paying  his other commitments. So it was likely this behaviour of 
indebtedness was becoming increasingly more difficult to sustain. 
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 and 4 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Rs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Mr R a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN36959403my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3695940