K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited declined a number of his insurance 
claims.
Mr W is also unhappy with the amount of money Legal & General Insurance Limited  paid out 
on his successful claim.
background
On 24 October 2017, Mr W raised an insurance  claim  with Legal & General. Mr W explained  
that he was in hospital for a number  of days. And some people had the keys to his property. 
Mr W said somebody removed the hard drives  on his computer.  He wanted to claim for the 
damage caused to his computer. Legal  & General accepted this claim and paid Mr W for the 
replacement of the hard drives. As Mr Ws policy has an excess  of £100,  they deducted this 
amount from the claim. 
On 2 November  2017, Mr W contacted  the business to ask for alternative accommodation.
He explained  he made this request because  his property  had no electric. Legal  & General 
responded to this saying this wasnt an insurable event. So, they believed  there was nothing 
they could do to help Mr W on this occasion. 
On 7 December  2017, Mr W contacted  the Legal & General about his electrics, He explained 
he had issues for four years with the electrics at his property and he wanted  to make a claim 
for the freezer contents and alternative accommodation. Legal & General said Mr Ws policy  
only covered contents and could not consider the electrics  issue. They said Mr W should  try 
and speak to his landlord. Legal & General  said the policy wouldnt cover alternative  
accommodation unless  the contents  had been damage in such  a way that deemed  his house 
to be uninhabitable. 
Legal & Generals records say Mr W told them hed plugged out the freezer  because  of the 
electrics issue.  They  said there was an exception in the policy for deliberate  acts and this is 
why they were declining this claim.  The business  said Mr W got in touch on 11 December 
and told them the electrics issue was sorted and he didnt want to continue with the claim.
On 10 January 2018 Mr W called Legal  & General because he noticed a large number of 
clothes items were missing along with some  of his kitchen equipment. Legal & General
appointed a loss adjuster because of the value of the items  Mr W claimed for. Their records 
say Mr W contacted them on 30 January 2018 to say that his contents had reappeared
and he didnt need to make the claim.
On 10 January 2018, Mr W also explained that hed lost his mobile phone.  This claim
was also passed  to the loss adjuster to look into. Legal & General say Mr W told them that 
he had mobile  phone insurance with another insurance provider. As a result  of the 
alternative insurance being  in place the loss adjuster declined  his claim. But they did explain 
if Mr W could  provide  the IMEI number for the mobile and evidence  that the mobile phone 
had been blocked and also proof of purchase they would consider a contribution towards
the mobile phone.
On 24 January 2018, Mr W contacted Legal  & General because his Xbox and speaker 
Ref: DRN35153132werent working. Legal & General declined the claim because no insurable event had taken 
place. Mr W then told them the damage was caused  maliciously.  They told Mr W he needed 
a crime reference  number and further confirmation  of this before they could consider the 
claim.
On 24 January 2018, Mr W contacted Legal  & General and said there was an issue  with his 
computer. It had stopped working and he wasnt sure why. They  told Mr W this issue  isnt
an insurable event  and so they declined his claim.
On 30 January 2018, Mr W contacted the business and explained that when he sprayed
his toiletries they didnt  smell  the way they should. Mr W contacted the police about  this as
he believes  somebody tampered with his toiletries.  The business says the police didnt give
Mr W a crime reference  number and so they couldnt continue with this claim.
In February 2018,  Mr W contacted the business and referred back to his claim for clothing
and kitchen items. Mr W said in his email to the Legal & General:
I have been through the clothes that have  been returned and there are still a few items
missing as follows; multiple pairs of designer boxer shorts approx value £800:00, multiple
pairs off designer socks  approx value £200:00, kitchen stuff still not returned therefore  new
plates cups glasses cutlery and other kitchen items  to be replaced approx value £400.00
Mr W was unhappy with how Legal  & General  handled his claims and he complained to 
them. They issued a final response on 16 April 2018. Legal & General respond to eight
separate claims in their final response letter, these are:
theft of hard drives;
alternative accommodation due to no electrics;
freezer contents, electrics and alternative accommodation;
theft of contents;
loss of mobile phone;
Xbox not working;
computer programme  not working; and
malicious damage to toiletries.
In their final response letter Legal  & General say they couldnt progress a number of  Mr Ws 
claims because they needed more information.  Some claims were uninsurable events and 
they gave details of the successful claim Mr W had. 
Legal & General said they paid out on Mr Ws claim about his hard drives  and offered him 
£309.98 to replace them. Mr Ws policy has an excess of £100  so they took this into account  
when reaching  a settlement figure.  Mr W wanted them  to refund the cost of the computer. 
Legal & General said they couldnt refund the cost of the computer because  the computer 
wasnt stolen or damaged  during  the incident.  They also paid Mr W £100  for the service he 
received during this period when he had multiple  claims.
Mr W disagreed  with the final response  and asked our service to review his complaint
Our investigator reviewed  the case and he didnt think  the Legal & General had made an 
error in their handling  of Mr Ws claims.  He explained that they were correct  to ask for further  
Ref: DRN35153133information on some of Mr Ws claims and felt the £100 compensation paid to Mr W was 
reasonable. 
As Mr W disagreed with his opinion  he asked for his case  be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
So, Mr Ws case was passed to me to consider. 
I contacted Mr W before  reaching a final decision on the case, he told me:
the computer  was vandalised to remove the hard drive and therefore  the full claims 
should be £2,000;
the mobile phone  has been  proved already  with the receipt of ownership and IME 
number cant be blocked as the account  migrated; and 
he would  go through the clothes again  and put in a claim and he did this to the value 
of £800.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator.  And Ill explain why. 
freezer contents
Legal & General explained  they couldnt  consider the freezer contents because Mr W told 
them that hed plugged the freezer out. They said this was a deliberate act which isnt 
covered by the policy. I need to refer back to the policy and the definition  of deliberate acts 
which Legal & General have relied  on to decline this claim.
The policy says:
7. Deliberate acts
Any loss, damage  or liability caused on purpose by you or any person residing at your
home.
I appreciate that Mr W plugged  out the freezer because of the issues  with the electrics.  
Because Mr W made the decision to plug out the freezer, I do agree that this was a 
deliberate act. And this means,  in my view, Legal  & General were correct  in declining  this 
claim.
theft of contents
Mr W initially raised a claim for clothing  and kitchen items which were missing from his 
home. But later he told Legal & General that the clothing and kitchen items had been 
returned. So, he said he didnt need  to make  a claim. 
But I see that Mr W sent an email  in February  and said: 
I have been through the clothes that have  been returned and there are still a few items
missing as follows; multiple pairs off designer boxer shorts approx value £800:00, multiple
pairs off designer socks  approx value £200:00, kitchen stuff still not returned therefore  new
Ref: DRN35153134plates cups glasses cutlery and other kitchen items  to be replaced approx value £400.00
Having looked  at all the business  information I dont think  they realised Mr W wanted to
continue with this claim.  So, I think this was an error  on their part. Before they can
consider this claim they need to see evidence  that Mr W reported the incident to the
police. And proof of purchase before they could look at this claim further. Once  Mr W 
provides this information I would expect Legal & General to review  this claim. 
loss of mobile phone
Mr W called  Legal & General to raise a claim because he lost his mobile phone. During  the 
call Legal & General were able to establish  that Mr W had insurance  for his phone  with 
another insurance provider. They told Mr W if he provided them  with evidence that IMEI 
number has been  blocked across all networks and proof of purchase then they would 
consider things further. Mr W has said its not reasonable  for Legal & general  to request this 
information because  his phone provider is unable to block  his phone. Legal & general 
responded asking if his phone provider could put it in writing that they are unable to block  his 
phone then will progress the claim.  
Im satisfied that the questions that Legal  & General  asked were reasonable. And if Mr W 
can provide them with the additional information  they explained they would consider the loss 
of the mobile phone for him. 
When there is insurance in place  with two different businesses it is not unusual for the
businesses to share responsibility  of a claim. But a consumer cant  have double benefit  by
making a claim for the full amount with two insurers.
computer programme
Mr Ws computer  programme stopped working.  He called Legal & General to make a claim. 
He told them he didnt  know  why his  computer was not working.
Ive looked at the policy documents  in details and I cant  see that Mr Ws policy  covers  such  
incidents. Mr W policy covers for accidental damage and breakage which  is
defined as:
ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE:  Sudden,  unintentional  and unexpected  physical damage that
can be seen.
ACCIDENTAL BREAKAGE : Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical breakage that
can be seen.
The claim Mr W made doesnt  meet  either of these  conditions.  Because  of this Legal & 
General are correct in saying this claim is not covered by his policy.
malicious damage to toiletries and Xbox
Legal & General explained  to Mr W that they need  a crime reference number before they 
could consider this claim. Ive checked the details of Mr Ws policy to see what cover  Mr W 
have in place.
The policy says: 
Ref: DRN35153135the contents are insured  against loss or damage  caused by malicious acts or vandalism
This means  Legal  & General can consider a claim for malicious  acts.  So I need to consider if 
Legal & General is correct in asking  for a crime reference number before considering this 
claim
Im satisfied Legal & General  are entitled to ask for evidence from the police that a
malicious act has happened. As the police wouldnt provide this reference  number Legal & 
General cant take things  forward.  I would also point out that Mr Ws policy  also has an 
excess of £100.  So, even if Mr W were  to make a claim he  would be responsible for the first 
£100.
I appreciate Mr W is concerned because the police havent provided this information  and
He feels he shouldnt lose out as a result.
But under the circumstances  Im satisfied that Legal & General is allowed to ask for further
information from the police before accepting the claim.
alternative accommodation
Legal & General declined Mr Ws claim for alternative accommodation.  They said to have a 
successful claim  under  this term of the policy the contents had to be damaged  in such a
way that deemed  Mr Ws house to be uninhabitable.
I have to consider  what the policy says. The policy document says:
We also provided cover  for:
A. Alternative accommodation. During the period  your home is made uninhabitable
following loss or damage to the contents by any cause covered under this section,
we will pay for the cost of comparable alternative accommodation including for any
domestic pets permanently living with you. We will pay up to the sum insured on
your policy schedule.
In Mr Ws case  he asked for alternative accommodation because hed issues  with the
electrics in his property. Im satisfied  that Legal  & General were correct  not to pay out for
alternative accommodation as Mr W didnt meet the criteria set out in the policy.
hard drives
When Mr W was in hospital he says somebody went to his flat and swapped  his hard
drive and window  files. When any insurance company considers a claim it isnt unusual for 
them to get in touch with the police to ask for more  information about  the crime which took 
place.
In this case Legal & General was having  difficulty contacting the police to get the necessary 
information which caused delays. I dont think it is unreasonable for the business to obtain  
more information  from the police.
During November  the business were also asking for further evidence  and information about
Mr Ws computer.  Mr W wasnt able to provide the specifications  of the hard drive.
Ref: DRN35153136On 27 November 2017, Legal  & General called Mr W and explained  that they found two hard 
drives for £44.99  each and Windows 10 is available for £13.99.  They explained
Mr W had an excess on his policy of £100. So the amount they would pay would be £3.99.
In December 2017, Legal & General looked  at things  further  and considered the cost of
installing the hard drives  and the windows programme. They broke down  the costs  as:
2x £44.99 = £89.98 (2x 500GB  hard drives)
2x £80 =£160.00 (2x windows 7 home)
2 x £80 =£160.00 (2x Widnows7 professional)
This is a total of £409.98 but Mr W has an excess on his policy  which means he will pay for 
the first £100 of any claim. As a result  the payment made to Mr W was £309.98.
I think the business treated Mr W fairly by continuing with his claim and making  the payment 
of £309.98 to Mr W. They paid out on the claim even though Mr W wasnt able to provide 
them with sufficient evidence about  the model and specifications which had been removed 
from his computer. 
Mr W feels the business shouldve replaced  the computer. Legal & General  said they 
couldnt replace  the computer because it wasnt lost or stolen. 
After looking through  the policy I do agree with Legal & General. The policy does provide 
cover for theft, loss and damage. But it doesnt  provide cover for something  which  hasnt 
been damaged  and is still in Mr Ws possession.
The policy document says:
ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE:  Sudden,  unintentional  and unexpected  physical damage that
can be seen.
ACCIDENTAL BREAKAGE Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical breakage that
can be seen.
Mr Ws computer  doesnt meet this criteria.  So, I cant ask Legal & General to pay Mr W for 
the cost of the computer.
the service provided
What I need to consider is whether the business treated Mr W fairly  when dealing with his
claim. 
I do agree  that there was confusion caused to Mr W during the process and I can see
that the business has paid Mr W £100  compensation for this. I believe some  of this 
confusion was caused because there were multiple claims ongoing. And Mr W did decide  
not to pursue certain claim and at a later date changed his mind. 
So, I can appreciate  the difficult position Legal  & General were in. But Im of the view that 
this confusion did have  an impact on some of Mr Ws claims being  progressed and as a 
result, I do think £100 Legal & General paid Mr W is fair under the circumstances.
Ref: DRN35153137my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Legal  & General Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3515313