K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Virgin Money  plc has increased the interest rate that it applies to his 
credit card account.
background
Mr A received two letters from Virgin Money. In the first one he was told by Virgin  Money that 
it was increasing the interest rate on his account.  In the second letter, sent,  it seems,  in 
response to his query, it said the increase was due to the manner in which  he operates  his 
account and due to information  it received  from credit reference agencies  about him. But he 
says he has never missed a payment on this account and he has a good  credit score.
Further, Mr A wondered whether this was a legitimate way for Virgin  Money to act as a 
financial services business.
Virgin Money didnt  agree it had done  anything wrong  in raising the interest rate. It said it 
was allowed to do this under the relevant terms and conditions of the account. But it 
accepted it had taken too long to register Mr As complaint. It offered him £25 to make  up for 
this.
Dissatisfied with this response Mr A came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In short,  he 
thought that Virgin Money  had acted in line the terms and conditions for the account. He 
understood why Mr A might be disappointed by this turn of events. But our investigator didnt 
agree he had any fair and reasonable basis to say Virgin Money had to change its mind.
Virgin Money accepted  this recommendation, Mr A did not. In summary, he responded by 
repeating his earlier stance. He also expressed  his opposition to the behaviour  of large  
companies towards individual customers.
Mr A asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have finished my review of Mr As 
complaint. I am not upholding it. Please let me explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are the key issues 
here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN30804542Mr A doesnt  dispute Virgin Moneys  position that the interest rate increase has been carried 
out in line with the terms and conditions that apply  to the account. Rather he objects to the 
reasons that Virgin have  given him for the increase,  and the size of the increase.
Mr A agreed to the terms and conditions of the account when he applied  for and used the 
account. That being the case, as a starting point, I dont see why Virgin  Money ought not to 
be able to rely on them.
From the information I have seen, those terms and conditions permit Virgin Money  to 
increase the interest rate as it has done. That said,  I can see that Mr A is perplexed.  Nothing  
I have seen suggests he did not keep  his account  in good order, so from his point of view it 
is not entirely clear  what it is about  how he ran his account that might  have  contributed to its 
decision to increase the interest rate. Moreover, he tells us his credit rating was good, so I 
can also see why he does  not understand what this has to do with Virgin  Moneys decision.
However always paying on time and keeping your credit rating high are not the only things 
that a business like Virgin Money takes  into account  when making a decision like this. Many 
other behavioural and financial factors will be taken into account by it. I dont know what 
particular combination of factors  come into play when Virgin  Money decides to increase 
interest rates for its customers. That is commercially sensitive information, so it would  not be 
in the public domain. But clearly this is a commercial decision by Virgin Money. Im not Virgin 
Moneys regulator so I cant act in the way its regulator could in looking at policy  decisions 
taken by Virgin Money. I think that might disappoint Mr A as it appears he thinks  this service 
has such powers. However, what I can do is look at whether Virgin  Money has treated Mr A 
fairly when  making  this business decision.
All of this started off when  Mr A received  what  looks like a standard  template letter  to tell him 
Virgin Money intended to increase the interest rate it applied  to his account. The letter gave 
him the required notice.  It also gave  him the option  to keep his account and accept the 
increase or reject the interest rate increase and close his account.  In the circumstances I 
think this was a fair and reasonable  way of going  about things. Mr A ought to have known 
where Virgin Money stood  and he could either  accept the increase  or make alternative 
arrangements. I realise this rate increase  came  out of the blue for Mr A, but that is the nature 
of these sorts of products.  Interest rates can go up or down, but I accept they generally go 
up.
It is clear Mr A objects to the size of the increase in the interest  rate. But this, again, is a 
commercial decision - one that Mr A does not have to accept. As above, he can choose to 
close this account.  
 I cant tell Virgin Money  that it must decrease the interest rate. It has given him fair notice of 
the change. Virgin Money  has accepted  that Mr A has the right to decline the increase and to 
pay off his existing  balance at the old rate of interest. For all of these reasons I think  Mr A 
has been treated  fairly. It follows I have no fair and reasonable basis to tell Virgin Money  that 
it must  do more.
For all of these reasons I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN30804543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3080454