K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about his trading account  with Gain Capital  UK Limited  (Gain).  In the 
main, he says:
Gain did not properly  warn him about  the risks of trading, did not provide adequate 
education or any advice about  trading, did not provide education or advice about 
protecting his capital  in the course  of trading and did not warn him that the market 
was manipulated.
As a result  of the above wrongdoings Gain defrauded him, he has lost around  £8,000  
to £10,000 and he claims compensation for this financial loss. 
background
Gain disputes Mr Cs complaint. In the main, it says:
Mr C held an execution only account which  did not include advisory, monitoring or 
management services; the nature of this service was confirmed to him in the general 
terms and policy documents for the account which  he agreed to; the account  was 
opened in 2016  and closed in 2017, with total deposits of around £3,100,  total profits 
of around £2,400  and total losses of around £5,500;  his losses  were  genuine and 
were not caused  by Gain; and, at all times, Mr C was responsible for his trading 
decisions, monitoring his trades and managing his account.
In response to its appropriateness  assessment  Mr C said he had, in the previous 
year, execution only experience of trading derivatives frequently ; trading shares and 
bonds occasionally; spread betting, Contract  for Differences (CFD) trading  and 
margined forex trading  frequently  (between  25 to 49 times);  that he understood the 
risks and nature of trading  such highly leveraged products; and that he understood 
his responsibility  to monitor and manage  the risks in his trades at all times. The 
account was deemed  appropriate for him on this basis.
It provided Mr C with risk warnings (about the complex nature of the traded products 
and their associated  high risks) and with access to educational materials  within its 
online trading  academy.  It was his responsibility to use those resources.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld  
 for broadly  the same  reasons as those given by Gain. He noted  submissions that Mr C had 
made about wider  market  matters and wider alleged  practices  but said they are matters for 
which Gain could not be held responsible. Mr C disagreed with this outcome. He maintained 
his allegations,  his claim for compensation and his submissions about wider market  matters. 
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Cs submissions  about  wider market matters and his allegations of malpractices 
within those matters. These issues also appear  to relate to his assertion that he has been  
defrauded and has been  a victim of financial abuse.  My remit does not extend to addressing  
such matters so I have not done so. They appear  to be regulation related issues and this 
service is not the financial services  regulator.  My remit is to address Mr Cs specific  
complaint and the issues within it. I do so as follows:
Ref: DRN30993242Appropriateness of Mr Cs trading account
This matter is implicit within Mr Cs complaint,  given  what appears to be his overall  assertion 
that the account  and the trading  within it  was inappropriate for him. Appropriateness is 
assessed on the basis of information  from a client to a firm about whether the client has 
sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the risks involved in the service  or 
product(s) offered  by the firm. 
The contents of the 2016 appropriateness assessment which  was used in Mr Cs account  
application process are as I summarised above. Available evidence  supports that summary. 
It shows that Gain relied on information  from him  which confirmed previous familiarity 
with spread betting, CFDs and forex trading, frequent trading  in those products over the 
preceding year and his knowledge of the associated risks and need to manage those risks. 
In his submissions to this service Mr C has also referred to having  a total of over 15 years 
trading experience. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that Gain  was wrong  to 
accept Mr Cs application for the account.  It had reasons  to consider the account 
appropriate for him.
Risk Warnings
There is evidence that these warnings were  issued to Mr C within  the general terms and 
policy documents he agreed  as part of the account opening process.  Copies of the 2015  and 
2016 versions of these  documents  have been shared with us. 
The terms in both documents  begin  with a prominent section  headed Risk notice, in which 
 and in plain English   references  are made  to the leveraged and high risk nature of trading 
derivative products, the volatility of prices  in such trading, the risk of losing more than the 
amounts invested,  the need  for customers to understand the associated risks before trading 
and, in this respect,  the need  for customers to read Gains  Risk Warning  Notice.  
Mr Cs account was based on an execution only service, Gain  held no responsibility for 
advising on his trading, monitoring his trading (or account) or managing  his trading (or 
account). He had sole responsibility in these respects, including responsibility  for awareness 
and management  of his exposure  to risks. The risk warnings emphasised the importance  of 
him monitoring his exposure to risks. 
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that Mr C was adequately warned about high trading risks 
at the outset and, thereafter, Gain was not obliged to provide  risk management for his 
individual trades and/or account.
Trading and Risk Management Education
There is evidence that Mr C had access to Gains online trading academy and its trading 
education contents. I agree with Gains point that it was his responsibility  to use the available  
information to assist his trading. In the context of an execution only service,  that information  
was available  for customers like Mr C to use, learn and understand before trading and to use 
as reference points as they were trading. 
Mr C might say more  information could have been made available. However, that argument 
does not automatically  mean that the information  available from the trading  academy was 
poor or insufficient.  Its contents  appear  to have included information  about traded products, 
Ref: DRN30993243education on fundamental and technical  analysis, information about risk management,  
information about trading strategies and market news.  Overall  and on balance,  I consider 
that there  were sufficient  and understandable trading  education materials  available  to Mr C 
and his reference to a total of over 15 years of trading experience would  also suggest that he 
was familiar with or would have understood the educational materials  that were available.  
Fraud and Market Manipulation
I respect the strength of feeling with which Mr C has made allegations in these respects, but 
the balance of evidence does not support either  allegation  as far as they relate to Gain. 
I have not seen evidence of Mr Cs money  being unlawfully misappropriated and I am not 
persuaded by the argument  that his losses were caused by the matters of deception he 
alleges against Gain. With regards to the latter and as I have addressed  above,  the risks of 
such losses were sufficiently  (and repeatedly) declared to him at the outset, so they were  not 
concealed from him and he does not appear to have been  deceived in this respect. In 
addition, I have not seen evidence that there  was market manipulation by Gain in his case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 November 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3099324