K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of three  cars he acquired under hire agreements with 
Motability Operations Limited (Motability).  Hes also unhappy that Motability terminated his 
most recent agreement because of his behaviour. Motability says that Mr N has been 
abusive to its staff. Mr N thinks this is unfair and feels  hes being discriminated against  
because of his disabilities.  
background
Mr N acquired  a new car under a hire agreement with Motability in November  2017.  The 
agreement was due to last around  three  and a half years. Around a month after entering into 
the agreement, Mr N complained about the car. He said:
The passenger  doors  didnt  align.  
The paintwork  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
There was condensation in the lights and on the rear windscreen.  
The car wasnt big enough for his needs.  
The car was taken back to the supplying dealer, who liaised with the manufacturer. The 
manufacturer declined to carry out any repairs because it didnt think there were any issues 
with the car. Motability offered to allow Mr N to terminate the agreement,  and it agreed to 
waive the cancellation fee. It also offered Mr N £256 in relation to the advance payment and 
other costs  that hed incurred. Mr N accepted  this offer. 
In February 2018,  Mr N acquired another new car under  a hire agreement  with Motability. 
This agreement was also due to last around  three and a half years.  Shortly  after acquiring  
the car, Mr N was involved in a minor  accident. He subsequently complained  about  the 
repairs that were completed after the accident.  I understand  Motability offered to cover  the 
cost of repairs. 
Mr N wasnt happy with the repairs and complained about issues with the car  including 
scratches and damage to the trim. Motability attempted  to liaise with repairers to get the car 
repaired to an acceptable standard. It also arranged for an independent  report  to be carried  
out on the car. The independent report set out the following issues with the car:
Theres a stone  chip in the front bumper. 
Theres a minor  mark in the off-side rear door moulding. 
The near front windscreen pillar trim has a 5cm scratch. 
There are scratches on the near-side and off-side chrome  type window trim. 
The off-side rear door pillar trim has a mark approximately 10cm by 10cm. 
The technician said that all the defects were very minor and didnt  detract from the overall 
appearance of an otherwise flawless car. He said that with the exception of the off-side 
chrome trim, none of the issues could be attributed to the accident. He also said, aside from 
the off-side door pillar, all of the issues  were as a result of wear and tear and have occurred  
to normal use. 
Following on from this, Mr N complained again  because  he was unhappy  with the paintwork  
following the previous repairs. Motability spoke to Mr N about his options and he decided  to 
terminate the agreement and order a new car. Motability also pointed out that Mr N was 
abusive to its staff and to its scheme partners staff.  It explained to him that it would not 
Ref: DRN32166532tolerate customers who intimidate or verbally abuse  its employees  or those individuals 
working on behalf of its scheme partners. Mr N said that his disabilities can cause him to 
shout and swear 
Motability agreed to arrange another car for Mr N. And it offered to take back  the second car 
for no fee. It also agreed to refund the full advance payment and offered Mr N a courtesy car 
until the new agreement  was set up. 
Mr N acquired  his most recent car under a hire agreement in August 2018  which  was also 
due to run for around three and a half years. The car was brand new.  Mr N says there  were  
problems with:
A pre-sense fault system.
Scratches on the paintwork.
The incompatibility of his mobile  phone.
The gearbox jumping  out of reverse.
Mr N took the car to a main dealer to have  work  carried  out because  warning  lights had 
come on. The main dealer carried out some  works  on the electrics because  of various fault 
codes and said it would try to buffer out the scratches. It gave Mr N a courtesy car while  this 
happened. The main dealer said that all issues with the car were resolved. It also explained  
that Mr Ns mobile phone wasnt compatible. Mr N also contacted a breakdown recovery 
agent to look at the car. The recovery agent  said the gear change in certain circumstances 
felt a bit sticky, but otherwise there were no problems with the car.
Following on from this Mr N entered into discussions with Motability  about  rejecting the car 
and complaining about the breakdown recovery agents. Motability didnt  want  to deal with 
Mr N over the phone  because it felt that he was being abusive to its staff members. It said 
that it didnt think  there  were grounds  for Mr N to reject the car. It said that it would allow  him 
to end the agreement, but would not offer another car under the scheme. It also reiterated 
that it took the decision to refuse  contact  with Mr N over the phone  because of his behaviour.  
But it said that it would deal with a third party nominated by Mr N if required. 
Motability continued to correspond  with Mr N. And it continued to tell him on the phone that it 
would not speak to him because of his behaviour.  In November 2018, Mr N contacted 
Motability about problems he was having with getting a window replaced. Motability pointed 
out the glass repairers were also not happy  with Mr Ns behaviour  towards its staff. 
Motability decided  to terminate Mr Ns agreement because of his behaviour.  Mr N 
complained to our service. He was unhappy with the quality of the cars, and the service 
received. He also complained about Motabilitys  decision  to terminate the agreement.  He 
thought he was being discriminated against because of his disabilities. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that financial 
businesses are required to make adjustments for customers  with disabilities. But she said 
that she has to consider  whats  fair and reasonable and what  businesses  can be fairly 
expected to handle. She listened  to the phone calls between Mr N and Motability and 
thought his behaviour was regularly unacceptable. Mr N verbally abused and made obscene 
sexual comments to Motabilitys staff members.  
Our investigator noted that Motability tried to accommodate  Mr N by offering other contact 
methods. She says it also gave Mr N fair warning  that it would terminate the agreement  if he 
Ref: DRN32166533continued to abuse its staff.  So considering everything,  she didnt think  Motability was unfair 
to terminate the agreement. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said that the investigator hadnt considered the complaint properly or 
properly considered his disabilities. He reiterated  that there were problems with the car and 
asked us to look into things again. 
I recently issued a provisional decision  on this complaint saying:
Mr N acquired  all three cars under regulated hire agreements. We have  the power to 
consider complaints about these sorts of agreements.  Motability is the supplier of the goods 
under these sorts of agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints about  their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  covers hire agreements such as Mr Ns. Under a hire 
agreement, there is an implied term that the goods  supplied will be of satisfactory quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  says that goods will be considered of satisfactory 
quality where they meet  the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  
taking into account  the description  of the goods, the price paid and other relevant 
circumstances.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability. So with cars, this means that its components  must 
be durable and last a reasonable  amount of time. Exactly how long a reasonable period is 
will depend  on a number  of factors.  
In this case, all the cars that Mr N acquired were brand new.  So the cars should all have 
been in perfect  working order, free from minor  defects. 
Ive first thought about the quality  of the cars that Mr N was supplied under the agreements 
with Motability. 
car one
Mr N complained about the doors,  paintwork and lights shortly  after acquiring  the first car. 
Motability also says Mr N wasnt happy with the size of the car. The manufacturer didnt 
agree and said that it couldnt find any problems with the car. So theres conflicting evidence  
as to whether  or not there were any faults, which would have rendered  the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.  The car is no longer available, so its difficult  for me to safely conclude  
it wasnt of satisfactory quality. However, Motability allowed Mr N to hand the car back, at no 
cost. I think this was a fair step for it to take  particularly given that he said the car wasnt  
big enough for his needs. I dont think it needs to take any further action in relation to this 
part of the complaint. 
car two
Mr N also raised  various complaints about the quality  of the second car. He was 
unfortunately involved in an accident shortly after acquiring it. Mr N complained about  the 
quality of repairs and Motability agreed  to cover the cost of putting things right.  I think this 
was fair, and Im not persuaded that Motability  should have done more here. 
Motability also arranged  for an independent report on car number two. The independent 
technician said that aside from one issue, all the problems Mr N noticed  were down to either 
Ref: DRN32166534wear and tear or the accident he was involved in. I find the report credible and persuasive. 
And, in any event, Motability allowed Mr N to hand  back this car. I think  this was fair of it as 
well. Im not persuaded it needs to take any further  action in relation to this car. 
car three
Mr N also experienced  a few issues with the third car. He says warning lights  illuminated, 
there were scratches on the paintwork, and there was a gearbox  issue. He was also 
unhappy that his phone  wasnt fully compatible  with the car. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that a warning light came on because  of fault codes and that 
work was carried out to buff the paintwork. And while the manufacturer couldnt find a 
problem with the gearbox, the recovery agent noticed it was sticky. I dont  think a 
reasonable person would expect to have to deal with these sorts of issues  shortly after 
acquiring a brand new car. So taking all this into account, I dont think the third car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr N. But I should also point  out that I dont think  
the incompatibility of Mr Ns mobile  phone would have meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality.
Motability ended up terminating the agreement for other reasons. But I dont  think  it dealt 
with the quality of goods  issues on the third car fairly. And while  Mr N was provided  a 
courtesy car, I think  he was no doubt inconvenienced by having to take the car back  for work 
to be carried out and his use of it would  have been  impaired. So I think  Motability should do 
something to recognise this. And I think a fair amount of compensation is £200.  
other parties
Mr N has also raised various complaints about  other parties that have  been  involved. But I 
should point out that Im considering Mr Ns complaint about Motability. So Ive thought  about  
how Motability have  dealt with things. If hes unhappy with any of the other  parties, he may 
want to contact them directly. 
termination of the agreement
Motability decided  to terminate Mr Ns agreement and sanction  him for two years. But before 
this, it told him it would only deal with him in writing  or via a third-party  representative 
because his behaviour was inappropriate. It also warned Mr N that it would terminate his 
agreement if he continued to act inappropriately. Ive thought  about  whether Motability  acted 
fairly. 
Clause 15.1 of the hire agreement that Mr N agreed to enter  into says we may terminate  
the Agreement by providing you with notice if at any time, you do not comply  with any of your 
main obligations  under this agreement
And clause  19.1 of the agreement says:
You are responsible for ensuring that you engage with us and our Scheme Partners  in a 
reasonable and courteous manner  at all times.  We operate a policy  of zero tolerance of 
abuse towards our employees or the employees  of contractors of our Scheme Partners and 
reserve the right to withdraw  the services  and terminate  this Agreement if in our sole 
discretion your conduct falls below what is reasonable.
Ref: DRN32166535With this in mind, I think that the terms of the agreement  allowed for Motability  to terminate 
the agreement  on the basis that Mr N was abusive to its staff.  
However, I think its fair to say that Mr N has a disability. He has an impairment  that has a 
substantial and long-term effect  on his ability to carry  out normal day-to-day activities. 
Where a customer is disabled, the Equality Act 2010 says that businesses must  make 
reasonable adjustments so that the disabled  person  can access  services. And that a failure 
to make those adjustments is a form of direct disability discrimination. The duty to make a 
reasonable adjustment requires a business to do one or more of the following:
Change the way things are done.
Change something  physical.
Provide extra aids or services. 
A business cannot justify a failure to make a reasonable adjustment.  But the 
Equality Act 2010 does place certain restrictions on the duty for businesses. In particular, a 
business isnt required to take steps  that would  fundamentally alter the nature of its service 
or for it to do something which is outside of its powers. 
So in this case, Ive gone on to think about  whether Motability acted fairly by changing  the 
way things are done and providing extra aids or services  to Mr N by making a reasonable 
adjustment. 
What is a reasonable step for a business  to take depends on all the circumstances  of the 
case. And it will vary according  to the:
Type of service being provided.
Nature of the business, its size and resources.
Effect of the disability on the individual  disabled consumer.
A business can also consider the following:
Whether taking any particular steps  would be effective in overcoming the
substantial disadvantage  that disabled people face in accessing  the services
in question.
The extent to which it is practicable  for the service provider to take the
steps.
The financial and other costs of making  the adjustment.
The extent of any disruption which taking the steps would cause.
The extent of the service providers financial and other  resources.
The amount  of any resources already spent on making adjustments.
The availability of financial or other  assistance.
The question of reasonableness of an adjustment is an objective one and is ultimately  for the 
courts to decide.  
In Mr Ns case, I think Motability did try to engage  with him for some time.  It gave him 
alternatives to dealing with it on the phone.  And I think  it gave him sufficient  warning that it 
would terminate the agreement if his behaviour continued. I think it did offer to make 
reasonable adjustments for him. 
Ref: DRN32166536Ive thought long and hard about  whether  Motability  should now be required to accept Mr N 
as a customer again and for it to provide another reasonable adjustment, or for it do anything 
else. Im conscious that a lot of Mr Ns behaviour is likely as a result of his disability. 
Ive had regard  to the law, and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. And while I know it will disappoint  Mr N, Im not proposing  to 
require Motability to make any further  adjustments or to reinstate him as a customer.  I have 
to bear in mind  that the reasonable adjustments previously  offered simply didnt  seem  to 
work. Mr N continued to contact it regularly  and was abusive to its staff members. I think it is 
a fair step for Motability to seek to protect its staff from abuse.  I also think  Motability  has 
been caused a not insignificant amount of disruption, and there  are other  costs  it is entitled 
to take into account   not least,  the human cost to its staff.  
Furthermore, sexual abuse of other  persons is a condition that Motability  doesnt have to 
treat the same way as an impairment, for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010. I dont think  
its fair that its staff would be put at risk of being subjected  to this sort of abuse. 
So overall, while I sympathise with the situation, I dont think  Motability  acted unfairly in 
terminating Mr Ns agreement, and I dont think it now needs  to accept him as a customer at 
this moment. But I do think  it should pay him £200 in relation to the problems he had with the 
third car. 
Mr N responded to the provisional decision and accepted the compensation in relation to the 
faults on the third car. He also accepts that his behaviour was inappropriate,  but he doesnt 
think that Motability offered him reasonable adjustments.  He reiterated that the comments he 
made were directly linked  to his disability and associated difficulty in managing 
conversations. He also set out that there was a good evidence the reasonable adjustments  
would significantly mitigate  the risk of Motabilitys  staff facing further  abuse.  
Motability responded to the provisional decision but didnt accept it. It pointed out that it had 
refunded the advance  payment and waived the termination fee on the first two cars when it 
wasnt contractually required to. It acknowledged  the problem with the third car but said this 
hadnt caused Mr N any significant issue. It also highlighted that it did not itself supply, or 
indeed see the car before  Mr N acquired it as its simply a supply car. So it didnt think it 
should have to compensate Mr N for something that it was unaware of and didnt cause.  
Motability also highlighted Mr Ns behaviour towards its staff and said it didnt think it was fair 
that it should have to pay Mr N compensation after everything that had happened. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board everything that Motability  and Mr N have said,  but Im not minded to 
depart from the conclusions reached  in my provisional decision. 
I understand that some aspects of Mr Ns behaviour is as a result  of his disability, but I think 
that Motability did do enough  to offer alternative  ways for him to deal with it. It tried to work  
with Mr N for some time before deciding  to terminate the agreement. It didnt take the 
Ref: DRN32166537decision lightly and, given  everything  Ive said above, I dont think it would be fair to direct it 
to accept him as a customer  at this point in time.   
Ive also thought about what  Motability has said. I agree that it dealt with the complaints 
about the first two cars fairly, so Im not going  to go over that again here. But it doesnt seem  
to be in dispute that there were issues with the third car. A warning  light came on, and there 
was potentially an issue with the gearbox. So I think there was a degree of inconvenience  
and impairment as a result, which I dont think has been addressed.  
I also remind Motability that under regulated hire agreements like the ones Mr N entered  
into, Motability is the supplier of the goods  under these sorts  of agreements. So its 
responsible for dealing  with complaints about the quality  of goods hired under the 
agreement. 
I think the compensation of £200 is reflective  of the overall inconvenience  and impairment  
caused to Mr N because  of the problems  with the third car. Ive taken on board Motabilitys 
comments about Mr Ns behaviour. But, to my mind, it doesnt feel fair to reduce or remove  
the compensation because of behaviour that is linked to a disability.  
So all things  considered, my final decision is that Mr N should be compensated £200 for the 
problems with the third car, but Motability doesnt have to take any further  action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Motability Operations  Limited should 
pay Mr N £200. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3216653