K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Miss H complain that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited sold them life and critical 
illness policies which were wholly inadequate for their needs and that the premiums  are 
getting more and more expensive, something  they were never  warned about.  Theyre  also 
unhappy with the service  they received after they made a claim.
background
An adjudicator at this service  noted  that Phoenix  recommended these policies as mortgage 
protection even  though Mr R and Miss H had an endowment policy designed to pay off their 
mortgage in the event  of eithers  death.  But she felt it wasnt  unreasonable to recommend 
bespoke cover.
That said,  she didnt believe the particular recommendations were suitable.
She said Mr R and Miss H had a joint £30,000 mortgage but were recommended two 
separate policies,  something she felt was unnecessary  and unnecessarily expensive given 
that if one of them died a joint policy wouldve paid off the mortgage debt.
She also queried why Mr R was recommended a £30,000 mortgage protection  policy without 
serious illness cover plus a separate £70,000  policy (which  he didnt go ahead  with) while 
Miss H was recommended a single policy with £38,500 of cover including  serious illness  
cover. The advisor  did not fully explain the reasoning behind these suggestions.
She felt that a joint decreasing term policy with serious illness  cover  would have been 
sufficient. Further, she noted that the recommended  policies were  for a term of 43 years,  
way beyond the term of their mortgage.  Shed seen no convincing justification  for this.
She acknowledged that Phoenix claimed  the excess life and critical illness cover was 
something Mr R and Miss H both wanted  in order to help any surviving partner with the cost 
of bringing up their child. 
While she accepted that this was, in theory, a reasonable idea, she didnt  believe  the specific  
recommendations actually met this objective  given Miss H was only recommended to take 
out £8,500 more cover than the mortgage commitment while Mr R was advised to take out 
an additional  £70,000 cover. So while she would have had a significant  surplus  to help bring  
up their child in the event  of his death,  if she died he wouldnt have. The adjudicator  could 
not see any evidence  that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited explained  this.
She said that while Phoenix  said it didnt offer joint policies at the time she still felt the 
advisor shouldve  made  them aware that other providers did, and the potential cost benefit  of 
this option, particularly given their financial circumstances.
She then explained why she felt Phoenixs handling  of Mr Rs waiver of premium  claim had 
not been unreasonable, particularly given it had agreed to refund the premiums they had 
paid since their notification on 17 July 2017. She was satisfied it had kept to the terms and 
conditions of the waiver  of premium benefit.
She felt Phoenix should refund the difference between the premiums Mr R and Miss H had 
paid on their policies  and the likely cost of premiums on a joint level term 20 year policy i.e. 
one which  matched their mortgage commitment. 
Ref: DRN38654312She also felt that as they should  both have had serious illness cover in place, Phoenix 
should consider  the medical information provided  to determine if Mr R is (i.e. would have 
been) eligible for a serious illness payment. If he met the requirements  for a serious illness  
payment, it should pay the relevant sum assured based on the policy they should have been 
sold.
Phoenix disagreed,  and said:
While  the policy could  run till 70 or 75, the premiums (cost of providing the cover) are 
reviewed each  year so Mr R and/or Miss H could cancel it at any time
It recognises their main priority was for mortgage protection; and it does not know  
why Miss H was not recommended to take out an additional policy but this may have 
been for affordability issues
 It definitely did not offer joint decreasing term assurance policies at the time so it 
could not carry  out the calculation the adjudicator requested
They both had a life cover need  and the policies  went some way to meet  this need
It wanted clarification as to whether the adjudicators proposed redress  was based on 
level or decreasing  term cover (she subsequently confirmed that it should be level 
term cover)
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I agree with the adjudicator  and for the same reasons, which is why I have 
outlined her arguments in some  detail. I therefore will not repeat them all here.
Firstly, I should explain  that Mr R did not go ahead with the recommended £70,000 policy  so 
I have therefore  not considered its potential suitability. I note there  is some  disagreement  
about why it was not actioned but I think Mr R was, or ought to have been aware that it 
hadnt been started  and so if he had wanted  it to go ahead  he ought  reasonably  to have  
contacted Phoenix  to ensure it did.
Secondly, it is clear   in my view  that both Mr R and Miss H had a clear need  and desire  
for bespoke  protection for their £30,000  interest-only  mortgage which  was due to be paid off 
via an endowment policy in less than 19 years time.
The most cost-effective and appropriate  policy would have been a joint level term 19 year 
policy without indexation. If Phoenix  did not offer this, it still had a responsibility to explain 
that this was the most obviously suitable  product,  and that other providers did offer this. It 
could then have  still suggested other options  that it did sell as long as it pointed  out their 
respective advantages and disadvantages.
Given Mr R and Miss Hs circumstances and objectives, I believe it is more likely than not 
that they would have  sought the cheapest  bespoke cover, and not gone  ahead with this 
recommendation, if given  all the necessary information.
I dont dispute  that it was reasonable, in principle, for the advisor to have recommended 
additional cover  but I can see no logic to his particular  recommendations which  dont appear 
Ref: DRN38654313to be based on a clear  understanding of Mr R and Miss Hs top priorities or an objective view 
of their joint situation.
If, for example, they had wanted  and felt they could afford  additional life insurance for 
family protection, the obvious recommendation would have been to take out a joint policy 
with the same joint sum assured.  The advisor  should also have clearly  outlined and 
explained the period  of time he felt appropriate - whether this was till any children might have 
grown up or even for life. The advisor did not address  these questions  or explain the thinking 
behind recommending such a mismatch of cover between Mr R and Miss H.
I note that the adjudicator felt a 20 year policy would have been suitable but as their 
mortgage had less than 19 years to run by the time they took out these plans, I am satisfied 
that a 19 year plan would have been sufficient.
Given all these reservations, along with those outlined by the adjudicator,  I instruct Phoenix 
to pay compensation  by comparing  the premiums Mr R and Miss H paid on these two 
policies with what they might reasonably have paid on a comparable  19 year non-indexed,  
level term policy. It should pay the difference in premium costs and then add 8% simple 
interest per annum to each amount from the date each premium was paid to the date of 
settlement of this complaint. Obviously it should not include premiums it subsequently 
refunded under the waiver  of premium settlement.
I accept that Phoenix  did not sell this type of policy at the time. It will therefore  need to find 
out what similar large insurance providers charged, or would  have charged,  in order to make 
such a calculation. It should ideally obtain  two quotes and use a middle figure as the basis  
for compensation.  
Finally, for the reasons  outlined  by the investigator, I believe that Mr R and Miss H shouldve  
been recommended  to take out a joint policy which included serious illness  cover  (as part of 
a £30,000 level term policy) - and would have agreed to this recommendation if properly 
advised
Therefore Phoenix  must potentially offer compensation on this basis. To do this it must 
assess whether it would have paid out Mr Rs rejected claim under such a serious  illness 
clause. It would be reasonable  to use the criteria set out in Miss Hs policy unless there  are 
obvious reasons  why this is inappropriate.
As I am refunding the excess premiums, any pay-out would be based on a sum assured of 
£30,000  the amount of serious illness cover Phoenix should have recommended i.e. if it 
upholds the complaint in full it should  pay £30,000.  It should also add 8% simple interest per 
annum to any pay-out from the date it would most likely have made  such  a pay-out to the 
date of settlement  of this complaint. 
The medical evidence  required  when considering  a serious/critical illness  claim is far greater 
than that needed to assess  a waiver of premium  claim. So Phoenix  is likely to ask for far 
more information.  Obviously if Mr R doesnt  feel a claim is likely to be successful he can tell 
Phoenix that he doesnt want to pursue this issue.
If, however,  he makes a claim and is unhappy with the outcome of Phoenixs  assessment, 
he would  be entitled  to bring  a fresh complaint  to this service about  this specific  issue.
Finally, as this compensation is based  on Mr R and Miss H having been  sold a single  joint 
policy which  came  to an end as soon as possible after their mortgage expired (which is due 
Ref: DRN38654314to occur within a short  period  of time of this decision), they cannot  continue with either of 
their existing policies  and will need to surrender both, and without value, in order to receive 
the compensation I have outlined. According  to the case notes I understand they have 
cancelled at least one of their policies but it is not clear  if both were  cancelled. This 
compensation is dependent on both being cancelled.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited to pay compensation 
and potential compensation  as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3865431