K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained Lloyds  Bank plc didnt  refund  direct debit payments made  to an online 
payment scheme  in 2016-17.
background 
Mr W contacted  Lloyds  in 2017 after noticing transactions  on his bank  statement  that he 
hadnt made. These all seemed to be payments to an account with an online payment 
scheme (who Ill call P). Lloyds said they wouldnt try and get these payments back  for Mr W 
as they couldnt do this under the direct debiting scheme rules. 
Mr W was unhappy with Lloydss conclusion. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman  
service.
After considering evidence from Lloyds, P and Mr W, our investigator told Lloyds he didnt 
believe Mr W had authorised these  payments. The disputed transactions  didnt belong to 
Mr Ws P account.  They needed to refund payments to Mr W. Lloyds agreed to refund 
£487.27 along with paying 8% simple interest. They also would submit direct  debit indemnity 
claims to P for the remaining 23 transactions. Lloyds also subsequently agreed to refund 
banks charges to Mr W relating to these transactions.  They also offered £200  compensation 
for the trouble caused.
Mr W didnt agree. He wasnt completely sure he knew  exactly  what transactions were under 
discussion. Our investigator  confirmed it was the transactions on Mr Ws own spreadsheet. 
He was still concerned  that he was still getting direct debits  collected  which  he hadnt 
authorised. Our investigator told him these should be referred to Lloyds first as they had to 
have an opportunity to settle his complaint before it was referred to us.
As things  could not be settled, Mr Ws complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  a slightly 
different conclusion to our investigator   although  I dont think  this small change  will have a 
major impact on either party.  Although  it will ensure Mr W gets his money back slightly  
quicker. Ill explain why. 
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing thats  had an impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, as well as what both Lloyds and P has told us.
Firstly I can see the transactions in dispute  come from a spreadsheet which Mr W shared 
with us. These date from August 2016  to May 2017.  There are 23 payments made by direct 
debit and 29 other payments. Lloyds agreed to refund £487.27  which were payments made 
Ref: DRN36024942using Mr Ws debit card. They accepted  they should have used the chargeback rules to 
claim these  back  from P when Mr W first raised this with them.  They would submit direct  
debit claims for the 23 direct debit transactions.
These transactions all came from an account  Mr W holds  with Lloyds. He uses this 
specifically for online  transactions  therefore he doesnt think  he needs to monitor it that 
closely. Its clear  though that hes always  got a good  idea of what  hes bought using  his P 
account and what  he hasnt.
The facts  I think are pertinent to this complaint include:
Weve been  able to show all these payments relate to transactions  which dont  
belong to Mr Ws P account. 
Our investigator confirmed he didnt  believe  these had been authorised  by Mr W.
Lloyds has accepted this logic and wants to put things right.
Taking all the facts into consideration I dont think Mr W authorised any of these  
transactions. Lloyds  need to refund all the transactions  on Mr Ws spreadsheet. They 
absolutely can  and Im sure they will  submit direct debit claims for the 23 transactions  
where money was collected by direct debit.  But Mr W should  be refunded that money  
regardless.
Although this wasnt covered in our investigators  original view,  Lloyds has accepted theyll  
need to add 8% simple  interest to those transactions. They  will also refund  the charges and 
fees that accrued to Mr Ws account  whilst these payments were in dispute.
Mr W has explained his personal circumstances and why he believes he should  be paid a 
certain amount  of compensation. This would  cover the time hes spent on trying  to get this 
sorted. Our service  as Mr W knows  doesnt  pay customers  an hour-based compensation 
but we do take this into account when we consider what  happened.  
I appreciate Mr W has had to wait quite a time to have his complaint resolved. This is partly  
down to the volume of similar queries we have  to consider but also partly relates to Lloyds 
not getting this right first time around. Im increasing the compensation slightly to £250. Mr W 
is on a limited income so I believe the charges hes had to pay will have had an added 
impact.
Mr W has raised other transactions  on his Lloyds account. As far as I can see hes not raised  
these with Lloyds.  He needs to do that first so they have an opportunity  to resolve  his 
complaint before we consider it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Lloyds Bank plc to:
Refund all the payments  which  Mr W didnt authorise from August 2016 to May 2017;
Add 8% simple interest to those amounts from the date Mr W was debited until the 
date of settlement;  
Refund all bank  charges and fees that were added to his account because  of the 
impact of those transactions; and
Pay him a total of £250 for the trouble caused.
Ref: DRN36024943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3602494