K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs O, who are represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complain 
that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  rejected their claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of a mis-sold timeshare.
Background
In January 2011 Mr and Mrs O took a trial membership of a holiday club I will call R at a cost 
of £3,500. The loan was repaid in full in June 2011. 
In July 2018 they made a section 75 claim.  They say they were pressurised into taking out 
trial membership of R. They believed it would be tailored to meet their needs which turned 
out not to be the case. They also say that the benefits they were promised never 
materialised and the accommodation was not of the standard they were led to expect. 
Clydesdale rejected the claim and the CMC  brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  She agreed  with 
Clydesdale that the claim  had been made out of time.
The CMC didnt agree and reiterated  the points they had made  in their initial claim. It felt the 
tactics used by R amounted to undue influence. It argued that Clydesdale  paid commission  
to R which  had not been disclosed to Mr and Mrs O. It asserted that R had acted as the 
banks broker and wasnt authorised to do so. 
On the matter pf tine limitations, it said that Mr and Mrs O were  unaware that R had been 
guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation. It said that if it was considered that the claim fell 
outside the normal times limits, they believed  s.32 of the Limitation Act applied. In particular  
s.32(l)(b) which provides  that:
"(1) .... where  in the case of any action for which a period  of imitation  is prescribed  by this
Act...
(b) Any fact relevant to the plaintiff's right of action has been  deliberately  concealed from him
by the defendant...the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff has
discovered the... concealment... or could with reasonable diligence have discovered it."
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the information provided to us in order  to reach a fair and reasonable
outcome on this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Id like to
explain my reasons for this.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mr and 
Mrs O has a like claim against Clydesdale just as they would have against the supplier. So, 
Ref: DRN39787222if the claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, 
then that is something  Clydesdale  could  take into account when it considered  Mr and Mrs 
Os claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. Mr and 
Mrs O say the timeshare they bought was misrepresented to them. Under the Limitation Act, 
they had six years from the date upon which they suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation to bring his claim.
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  to work
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, I need to work out when it would
start if the claim  had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. In this case,  given the nature of
the complaint,  I think damage occurred when Mr and Mrs O suffered  a financial loss as a 
result of purchasing  the trial timeshare. Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs O say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, they paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused  them  to suffer a loss. They  say that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have  entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which
was in January  2011. Thats the moment when they accepted any potential benefit under the
contract, and it was also the moment they accepted  the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr and 
Mrs O needed to raise a claim no later than January 2017. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs O 
raised their claim in July 2018, which is more than seven years after the loss occurred.
They have has said they werent aware  they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier  than the date she 
became aware  that something might have gone wrong. I can see the investigator also 
considered s.14A of the LA and whether it made a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. I am not persuaded s.14A applies in this case so I will not comment on it further.
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into the
complaint. Under  s.140A,  the courts may make  an order  under section 140B in connection
with a credit  agreement if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor  and debtor
arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors.  Only a court
has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is unfair, but it
is relevant law we need  to take into consideration.
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr and Mrs O 
would have six years  from the date the related finance agreement ended  to bring her claim. 
From the information I have, the finance  agreement ended  in June 2011 so a s.140A claim
needed to be raised no later than June 2017. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs O raised their 
claim in July 2018, which is some seven  years after the finance  agreement ended.
Ref: DRN39787223The CMC has raised  the issue of s 32 of the Limitation Act. Typically, s.32 applies to 
fraudulent misrepresentation but it does  extend  to concealment.  However, Mr and Mrs O 
have raised a range of issues as grounds  for complaint over and above concealment which  
could have been discoverable earlier. As such I consider they would have  discovered  or 
ought to have been able to discover  that something  had gone wrong much earlier  and I dont 
consider the limit should be extended as suggested.  I would add that the CMC  has not 
established that there was concealment of commission or that this created an unfair 
relationship.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr and Mrs O may have 
against the supplier  or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs Os misrepresentation claim 
against the supplier  and the like claim against Clydesdale  more  than likely exceeded the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for 
Clydesdale to take this into account  when considering the s.75 claim against it.
So, given that the claim now is more than likely  time barred under the Limitation Act, I think
Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision I that I do not uphold  this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject my 
decision before  28 June 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3978722