K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SEs recovery agent damaged his car when he 
called for roadside  assistance under his motor breakdown policy.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint within my provisional decision, which is attached.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties disagreed  as to what happened  at the roadside and whether it is possible to fit a 
battery the wrong  way round. I didnt think Mr D had caused the damage  himself as there 
was no evidence of this when the recovery agent  attended.  
Both parties  have given  detailed descriptions of what  happened when the car battery was 
replaced. Mr D said the battery was returned  to the correct position by the recovery  agent, 
and I thought this would explain why the car then started.
The garage that Mr D took his car to said that the incorrect  fitting of the battery was the 
most likely cause of the damage and they had seen a previous incident and the damage 
this caused was similar to that suffered by Mr Ds car. I thought this view gave the most likely 
explanation of what had taken place.
I said that Great Lakes  hadnt shown that Mr D had failed to maintain his car in a roadworthy 
condition, and so I dont think the exclusion clause  it relied  upon  to decline his claim applies.  
I provisionally decided  to require Great Lakes to put things right for Mr D. 
Mr D agreed with the provisional findings  and sent photos demonstrating that it is possible 
for jump leads to be fitted to the incorrect terminals on his car battery when the battery  is 
fitted the wrong way round.
 
Great Lakes did not respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Great Lakes hasnt challenged  my provisional  findings and I see no reason  why these 
findings cant now form the final decision.
The damage to Mr Ds car put it beyond economical  repair. Mr D has said that hes scrapped 
his car and so I require  Great Lakes to pay the difference between  the value of his car at the 
time, and what he obtained for it as scrap. 
Our service has used trade valuation guides  to consider the value of Mr Ds car before it was 
damaged by the recovery agent. These guides  give valuations of £3,000,  £2,920 and 
£2,681. I think  it would be fair and reasonable to use the average of these to give a valuation 
of £2,867. Mr D has shown us an invoice for £320 that he obtained for his cars salvage and 
so I require Great Lakes  to pay him the difference of £2,547 to meet his loss.
Ref: DRN38058232Mr D said he was able to borrow a car from a friend  until he arranged  to lease a new car. He 
said he didnt incur  any insurance or other  costs for this and as he has been able to mitigate  
his loss of use, I do not award anything  for this. However, I think Great  Lakes should  
compensate Mr D for the inconvenience hes been caused, including  delays in his claim and 
I require it to pay him £200 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to take the following actions:
Pay Mr D £2,547  being the difference between  the value of his car and the amount 
he received for its sale.
Pay Mr D £200 compensation for the inconvenience its delays and handling of his 
claim has had upon  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38058233Copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Great Lakes Insurance  SEs recovery agent  damaged his car when he
called for roadside assistance under his motor  breakdown  policy.
Background
Mr D has breakdown assistance underwritten by his motor insurer, Great Lakes. He called
for help when  he accidentally locked  his keys in his boot, and had a flat battery.
The recovery  agent replaced Mr Ds battery and retrieved his keys.  Later that day Mr D
reported problems  to the recovery  firm with the radio and air conditioning, and said there
were warning lights on his dashboard. He later said that a local garage told him the battery
had been fitted the wrong way round  causing significant faults  and putting his car beyond
economic repair. The garage provided a report and Mr D has since scrapped his car.
Mr D said the recovery  agent had trouble  fitting the battery and had to widen the lead
bracket so that it would fit, and the terminal  was causing a problem. When  Mr D started the
engine he said the agent  told him to stop as he needed to turn the battery  around.
The recovery  firm said that its agent had correctly fitted the battery. It relied  on an exclusion
clause within Mr Ds policy to decline his claim:
The insurer will not pay for claims arising from or associated with:
7) Breakdowns caused  by failure to maintain  the vehicle in a roadworthy condition including
maintenance or proper levels of oil and water;
Mr D provided the recovery firm with a list of faults from his garage that he said the agent
had caused. The recovery firm said a replacement battery wouldnt cause the problems
described, although it said his garage said this was possible.  The recovery firm said Mr D
had advised that the car was jump started earlier  in the day, and it said this may have
caused the electrics to spike.
The recovery  firm said if the battery  cables were the wrong way round the connections
wouldn't have  reached the terminals, but more importantly the car wouldnt start.  It said the
problems would have  illuminated on the dashboard but didnt when  checked by its mechanic.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as the garage hadnt confirmed
the battery was connected  wrongly and there wasnt enough to show the faults were due to
the recovery  agent.  He said the faults might be due to jumpstarting the car, or its age.
Mr D pointed out that the garage told the insurer the damage was consistent with a battery
being fitted  the wrong way, but the insurer hadn't said this within  their file. He said he
wouldnt have bought a new battery at the roadside if warning  lights were displayed.
The investigator reconsidered, and recommended  the complaint  be upheld.  He said the
garage had in fact said the battery leads can be connected wrongly  and incorrect fitting was
"the most  likely cause" of the damage and they had seen  this before with a similar car. The
investigator said this contradicted what the recovery firm had said about the garages report.
Great Lakes disagreed saying the recovery agent did nothing wrong  and Mr D has only
offered speculation in support of his complaint. The recovery agent said the damage was
consistent with Mr D applying jump leads  to the wrong terminals. It said had damage been
caused by its agent warning  lights  wouldve appeared and the car wouldnt have got to the
garage. Great  Lakes requested an ombudsman  review the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN38058234Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint so far.
The parties  disagree  as to what happened  at the roadside; whether its possible for the
battery to be installed the wrong way round,  and whether  or not the car would  start in these
circumstances. Ive looked at the available evidence to see if Mr Ds car suffered from
problems as a consequence of the breakdown assistance he received, or for other reasons.
Ive taken into consideration  the possibility the car was damaged earlier by it being
jumpstarted and the limitations of whats possible for a recovery  agent  at the roadside.
The recovery  firm suggested  Mr D may have caused the cars faults by jumpstarting  it earlier
and connecting the terminals wrongly.  First of all I dont think Mr D damaged his car this
way. I say this because  he has been clear  that there were no warning lights on his
dashboard before  the battery  was replaced, and theres no report of any lights from the
recovery agent. Mr D explained that if his car was already showing warnings, then he and
the recovery  agent would  have known  there were more fundamental problems  than just a flat
battery and wouldnt have thought  a new battery would resolve the problems.
Mr D obtained information  from a garage that are specialists for his make of car. The garage
said it is possible for the battery  to be fitted the wrong way round.  Great Lakes said this
wasnt possible,  but its recovery  agents said had our technician fitted this battery  the wrong
way round then this would have sparked  excessively  and reacted by smoking. This would
appear to concede  the possibility of incorrectly fitting  the car battery.
Both parties have  given detailed descriptions  of what happened when the car battery  was
replaced. Mr D said the battery  was returned to the correct position  by the recovery agent,
and I think this would explain  why the car then started.
Great Lakes told Mr D that the incorrect fitting of the battery was described to it by the
garage as only speculation rather than fact. However,  in the call recording the garage
described this as the most  likely cause of the damage and they had seen a previous
incident and the damage this caused was similar to that suffered by Mr Ds car. I find this
view to be a more likely explanation of what may have taken place than the description  of
the conversation  given by Great Lakes.
Having considered  all of the evidence, I find Mr Ds and the garages explanation to be a
more persuasive view of what went wrong with his car. I have seen the service  history for
Mr Ds car and I dont think Great Lakes has shown that he failed  to maintain  his car in a
roadworthy condition, and so I dont  think  the exclusion  clause it relied upon to decline  his
claim applies. And consequently I am minded  to require  Great Lakes to put things right for
Mr D.
The damage  to Mr Ds car put it beyond economical repair. Mr D has said that hes since
scrapped his car and so I require Great Lakes to pay the difference  between  the value of his
car at the time, and what he obtained for it as scrap.  Our service has used relevant  trade
valuation guides to consider  the value of Mr Ds car before it was damaged  by the recovery
agent. These guides give valuations of £3,000, £2,920 and £2,681. I think it would  be fair
and reasonable to use the average  of these to give a valuation of £2,867.  Mr D has shown
us an invoice for £320 that he obtained for his cars  salvage  and so I am minded to require
Great Lakes to pay him the difference of £2,547  to meet his loss.
Mr D said he was able to borrow  a car from a friend until he arranged to lease a new car. He
said he didnt incur  any insurance  or other costs for this and as he has been able to mitigate
his loss of use, I am not minded to award anything for this. I do think  Great Lakes  should
compensate Mr D for the inconvenience hes been caused, including delays in his claim  and
am minded  to require it to pay him £200 compensation.
Ref: DRN38058235my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information that I receive  it is my provisional decision that the
complaint is upheld. I am minded to require Great Lakes Insurance SE to take the following
actions:
 Pay Mr D £2,547  being the difference between the value of his car and the amount
he received for its sale.
 Pay Mr D £200 compensation for the inconvenience its delays and handling of his
claim has had upon him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr D to accept  or
reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3805823