K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance, (PPI),  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out monthly-premium  PPI during a meeting  in 2002 at the same  time as 
taking out a secured personal  loan.  Although  the loan was in Mr and Mrs As joint names, 
the policy only covered  Mr A.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs A 
disagreed the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in making my decision in Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
Mr and Mrs A say that Halifax didnt make  it clear to them  that they had agreed to take the 
PPI. If it had been made clear, they say that they wouldnt have taken it. However, from what  
Ive seen I think that Mr and Mrs A knew that the insurance was optional  and that they chose 
to take it. I say this because Ive seen the paperwork  signed  by Mr and Mrs A at the time of 
the sale. Under a heading: Protecting your payments, their loan application  form had two 
equally prominent boxes   one requesting PPI and the other declining it. I can see that Mr A 
has signed the former box. Further, their loan agreement  has a printed  X in the box 
requesting the insurance, whereas the equal  sized box next to it declining  it has been left 
blank. I think its likely  that the agreement was printed this way following a discussion with 
Mr and Mrs A and following their wishes. As the sale was many years  ago I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs A dont remember the detail  of the sale.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs A. This means that it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable  for their needs.  Im satisfied that it was suitable because  
knowing what I do about the insurance  and Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time:
Mr A was eligible  for the policy;
Mr A wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations  such  as 
those affecting  someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN31715382Mr and Mrs A have  told us that Mr A wasnt entitled to sick pay from his employment and 
that they had no other insurance or savings to help them make their loan repayments  
had Mr A not been working. But following a successful claim the PPI would have paid a 
sum approximately  equivalent  to their monthly loan and PPI premiums each month. In 
the case of Mr A not being able to work  because of accident or sickness  these  payments  
would have been made  for up to 60 months. And in the case of Mr As involuntary  
unemployment they would have been  made  for 12 months. So Im satisfied that the 
policy could have  been of use to Mr and Mrs A;
The monthly premiums were under £10. And I find that this meant that the PPI was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit by reference to other policies available 
in the market at the time.  And Ive seen  nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs A couldnt 
afford it. In any event, as the premiums were  paid monthly, they could  have cancelled  
the policy at any time without further cost had they later felt that it was unaffordable or 
that they no longer wanted  it;
Im not clear whether Mrs A was working at the time. But Mr As income was substantial 
so I think its unlikely  that the fact that the PPI would only cover Mr A made it unsuitable  
for them. 
The loan agreement  showed the monthly  cost of the PPI separate  from the monthly  loan 
repayment. But its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs A all the other  information  
about the policy that it needed to so that they could make a fully informed decision whether 
to take it out or not. But, as Ive concluded that it was suitable for them and that they chose 
to take it, I dont think that better  information would have changed their minds and stopped 
them buying  it. So this means that Mr and Mrs A havent lost out because of anything that 
may have  been  wrong with Halifaxs sale process. So theres  nothing  I require it to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3171538