K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt tell her that her pet 
insurance premium had increased  and about its handling of her complaint about  this.  
background
When it renewed in 2018  Mrs Gs pet insurance premium increased  by around £135. Mrs G 
says RSA didnt  tell her about this, and it still took the increased  payments from her bank 
account. When she later realised she complained to RSA. 
RSA said it had sent Mrs G the renewal  letter  and schedule  of payments at the time her 
policy renewed. Mrs G said she would cancel  the policy  and RSA said she could ask her 
bank to charge  back the 2018 policy premiums,  which she did. RSA then wrote to Mrs G 
several times asking  her to pay this money back for the period  her cat had been covered. 
Mrs G spoke to RSA about the letters  shed  received and about the increased premium. 
RSA said it had treated  her in the same  way as other customers. It said that it would 
consider not charging for the period of cover if she could show  shed taken  another  policy  for 
the same  period (dual  insurance). Mrs G offered  to make  a payment based on the previous  
years premium for the cover shed received to the cancellation date. RSA broadly agreed to 
this, and reduced the amount due by £75. Mrs G paid the balance. Mrs G then complained  
about RSAs handling of the telephone call. 
RSA looked into her complaint and said the call could have been handled better. It 
apologised and said it had given feedback  to its staff member.  Mrs G wasnt happy and 
came to us. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said RSA had been able 
to increase the policy premium. Although RSAs call handling could have been better she 
didnt think this amounted to any major  service  issues. Mrs G didnt agree so the complaints 
been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
We generally take the view that an insurer is entitled to charge what  it feels it needs  to in 
order to cover a risk, so long as it doesnt  mislead people or treat people  unfairly.  Pet 
insurance can easily become expensive, but I dont think this means RSA treated Mrs G 
unfairly when it calculated her premium.
RSA has shown us that its increased Mrs Gs premium because of the increasing costs of 
claims and the age of her pet. RSA has also shown  us that its treated Mrs G in the same 
way as its treated  any other policy holder in her situation. I think RSA treated  her fairly so 
I dont uphold this part of her complaint. 
Mrs G says she didnt receive either  the policy renewal letter  or the schedule  of direct  debit  
payments for the forthcoming  year.  Ive seen both letters  and they were addressed correctly, 
but as she says she didnt receive advance notice she was able successfully to claim the 
payments back through her bank.  
Ref: DRN35297282But RSA did provide cover for Mrs Gs cat for the period until she cancelled it. It was correct 
that RSA said it would consider not charging  the premium if Mrs G had taken insurance 
elsewhere. Mrs G says she felt intimidated  during a call with RSA.  RSA looked into her 
concerns quickly and listened to the call. It acknowledged  that the conversation could have 
gone better,  and gave feedback to the staff member. It also said sorry to Mrs G. I think  this 
was a reasonable response to her complaint. Mrs G has explained how she felt but I dont 
think RSAs staff members acted inappropriately in his manner. He could have handled the 
call more efficiently. 
I know Mrs G says that she felt she had no option  but to make  a payment to RSA.  But I think 
RSA was entitled to ask her to pay for the cover  shed received. It accepted from her a 
payment which  was around £75 less than the 2018  premium due to the cancellation  date. 
I think this was fair so I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3529728