K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  acted irresponsibly  when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about five loans Myjar provided to Mr H between May 2015 and February  
2016. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
loan date taken date repaid original term/instalments due amount £
116.5.2015
 6/05/2015 
 6/05/2015 
 6/05/2015 26.6.2015 3 monthly repayments  300
2 25.7.2015 31.7.2015 10 days  1 repayment 400
3 9.8.2015 28.8.2015 19 days  1 repayment 400
4 29.8.2015 27.11.2015 3 monthly repayments 1000
5 19.2.2016 21.8.2018 3 monthly repayments 1000
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. She felt she hadnt seen enough to say it 
was unfair  for Myjar to have provided loans 1 - 3 to Mr H, but she thought Myjar shouldnt 
have given him loans 4 or 5. Our adjudicator set out the steps she said Myjar should take to 
put things right.  
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator. Myjar mainly said its checks for these loans had been 
proportionate and our adjudicators view lacked reasoning and detail.  Myjar was also 
concerned that our adjudicator hadnt  taken into account the 3 month gap in lending  
between loans 4 and 5.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN35358492the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Myjar was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the custome r should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loans 1, 2 and 3
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Mr H loans 1 - 3 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  At this stage in the lending 
relationship, broadly speaking I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. 
I think its fair to say that the amounts that Mr H needed to repay wouldve seemed relatively 
affordable compared  with the take home  pay hed declared, and what  was apparent  about  
his circumstances.  I dont  think  it wouldve been proportionate for Myjar to ask Mr H for the 
amount of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before 
agreeing these loans. So Im not planning  to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 1, 2 or 3.
As far as I can see, Mr H hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in 
relation to the first three loans, so I dont think that I need to say more about  them.
Loan 4
Unlike our adjudicator, I dont feel Ive seen enough information to be able to say that its fair 
for me to uphold  Mr Hs complaint about loan 4. 
I can see that Mr H paid loan 1 early and took out loan 2 barely a month  later  and 
borrowed more money. Then  he took out loan 3 barely a week  after he paid loan 2, and he 
took out loan 4 the next day after paying  loan 3. But these were  quite  modest loan amounts 
in relation to what  Myjar knew about his income and expenses. And in these circumstances, 
I wouldnt reasonably  expect Myjar to have been concerned that repaying  these  loans and 
then quickly borrowing again  necessarily indicated any financial difficulties.  
Ive also taken into account that loan 4 was for a very much larger  amount  of money  more 
than three  times the amount Mr H had borrowed around three months or so earlier when he 
first asked Myjar for a loan.
Ref: DRN35358493I think this shouldve prompted Myjar to think about  investigating Mr Hs financial situation in 
more detail. Ive taken into account  that Myjar was aware that Mr H was making other  credit  
repayments of around £320 at the time.  Looking at what he told Myjar about his monthly 
income and his other expenses, I dont  think Myjar had any reason to think  that Mr H was 
likely to face difficulty repaying loan 4. 
Its possible that Myjar could have done more,  or gone further  in its affordability assessment, 
before agreeing to provide loan 4 to Mr H. But based on the information  that Myjar had 
recorded at the time and all the information  Ive seen about Mr Hs circumstances then, 
I cant fairly and reasonably say that proportionate  checks shouldve led Myjar to decline his 
application for loan 4. So, unlike the adjudicator I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
loan 4.
Loan 5
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  by loan 5 Myjar should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt  have provided 
this loan. 
I say this because:
loan 5 was taken out less than three months after Mr H paid loan 4 
when thinking  about sustainability, Ive kept in mind that loan 5 was also for a similar 
significant amount  of money
by now, Myjar could  see that Mr H had already been borrowing for almost 9 months 
without any significant gaps  in lending  I don't  think the gap between loans 4 and 5 
is sufficient to be significant overall in the context  of Mr Hs borrowing history
and the amounts he was borrowing were generally increasing over time. Loan 5 was 
for the same amount  as loan 4  and more than 3 times the amount of loan 1 
Myjar ought to have realised that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably
and it was more  likely  than not Mr H had to borrow further to cover the hole repaying 
each previous loan was leaving  in his finances.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Myjar to think that it was likely  Mr H would be able to 
repay loan 5 in a sustainable way. And I think this is borne out by the difficulties Mr H had 
making the contractual repayments for this loan which was due to be paid in May 2016  but 
not repaid until August 2018.  
Ive carefully considered  everything Myjar has said, including its response  to our 
adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Myjar shouldve  seen that 
Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably  by the time he took out loan 5  and it 
shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue  to lending  to him. 
I think that Mr H lost out when Myjar provided loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  
Ref: DRN35358494the length of time over which Mr H borrowed these loans was likely to have negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for high-cost  loans.  
So Im proposing to uphold  the complaint about loan 5.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr H hasnt commented on what I've said in my provisional decision.
Myjar says it accepts  what I've said in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about  this case, I still think  its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what Myjar should  do
A) Add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 5, not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by Mr H which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay the amounts  calculated in "A" and "B" to Mr H. 
D) By loan 5, the length  of time that hed been  borrowing from Myjar means  any 
information recorded about this loan is adverse. So all information about loan 5 
should be removed  from Mr Hs credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN35358495my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct MYJAR  Limited to take the steps Ive set out above to put 
things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3535849