K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains that EUI Limited (trading as Admiral) unfairly  reported arrears  on his credit file. 
Background
Mr O had an insurance policy with Admiral going back  several years. In October 2018 
Admiral sent a renewal  pack. On 17 November 2018 Mr Os policy  renewed and it sent him a 
new policy document. As Mr O selected  to pay monthly Admiral also sent him a copy of the 
credit agreement. The credit agreement said that Admiral could report defaults  in the 
monthly payments  to the credit reference  agencies. 
In April 2019 Mr O contacted Admiral and queried  a late payment. Mr O went  on to complain 
that Admiral had reported the late payment on his credit file. Admiral said the credit 
agreement Mr O had accepted allowed it to report information about late and missed  
payments to the credit reference agencies.  Admiral didnt accept it had made a mistake  or 
agree to remove the arrears information.  
Mr O referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They  didnt 
uphold the complaint and said Admiral was able to report information about  payments to the 
credit reference agencies. Mr O asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O doesnt deny  that he made a late payment. But hes explained that he had previously 
made payments slightly later than the due date without an impact  to his credit  file. I 
appreciate Mr O feels Admiral hasnt been consistent in the way it reports  information  about 
his payments and that the process  appears  to have changed over time. But I have to take 
the contractual terms of Mr Os insurance  policy and credit agreement  into account.
Whilst I accept  Mr O has been  a customer of Admiral for several years,  each year he renews 
hes subject to new terms. The renewal  terms were sent to Mr O in October 2018 and 
Admiral sent the motor  insurance certificates to him on 17 November 2018. Admiral also 
sent Mr O a copy of his credit agreement. 
When a policy holder doesnt make  a payment on the due date, they are in default of the 
terms. The credit agreement  Mr O agreed to in order to make monthly payments allows  
Admiral to report late payments to the credit  reference agencies.  So whilst  I accept  Admiral  
may not always have  taken that step,  the credit  agreement Mr O accepted  as part of the 
November 2018  renewal meant the arrears information could be reported.  
Ive looked at all the available evidence  and I can see that not all of Mr Os payments were  
made in line with his credit agreement.  As a result, Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to 
report that information to the credit reference agencies.  
Mr O says that the regular  payment date wasnt suitable for him and made making payments 
harder. But theres  nothing to show he asked Admiral to change the date. And the premium 
collection date was also set out in the credit agreement Mr O accepted. I havent been  persuaded  
that Admiral treated Mr O unfairly by collecting his payments on the 30th of the month.  
Ref: DRN36816282Mr O has asked if we can tell Admiral  to remove the arrears  information as a gesture of 
goodwill. But I cant force  a business  to make a gesture  of goodwill and Im satisfied  the 
information reported fairly reflects  the payments made. Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I 
havent found grounds to tell Admiral to amend  the information on his credit file. 
Mr O has more recently raised concerns about  correspondence  hes received from Admiral.  
But this complaint relates to adverse information  reported to the credit reference agencies.  If 
Mr O remains  unhappy with the letters Admiral has sent him he will need to raise  it as a 
separate complaint. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O as I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter. But Im 
satisfied that Admiral has reported  accurate  information about his payments to the credit 
reference agencies  and has dealt with his complaint  fairly. As a result,  Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3681628