K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Welcome Financial Services Limited (Welcome) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2004 alongside  a Hire Purchase Agreement  to buy a car.
background
Mr L took out a Hire Purchase Agreement to buy a car in June 2004. At the same  time he 
bought PPI. This would  have cost him £1,645.12 and he paid for the PPI with a single 
premium which was added to his loan up front and Mr L paid interest on it.
The policy provided  him with cover  if he couldnt work through an accident or sickness,  for 
the remaining  term of the loan or until Mr L returned  to work whichever was sooner or if he 
lost his job for up to 12 months per successful  claim.
Welcome sent two final response letters to Mr L. In the first letter it said that it thought  the 
policy was mis-sold and offered compensation. I understand Mr L didnt contact Welcome 
following this letter. A couple of months  later it sent another final response  letter  to Mr L. This 
time it said it had sent the first letter in error and it was not upholding Mr Ls complaint. After 
referral to this service it offered to pay £250  to Mr L for the error, as a goodwill gesture.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed  with this view 
and asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding this 
complaint. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision below.
Mr L says that he thought  he had to take out the PPI as a condition  of getting the loan and 
he says he wasnt told it was optional.  Mr L has also told us he was unaware of the PPI. 
These two statements are slightly at odds  with each other but as this sale happened in 2004, 
I can understand why Mr L might  not remember exactly what  happened  at the time.
Welcome has been able to provide me with paperwork which was completed at the time. I 
think this shows that the PPI was optional and Mr L didnt have to buy it. The costs are set 
out on the agreement for the PPI under the heading   agreement for optional  insurance. And 
Mr L has signed the paperwork. So I think he understood he was paying for the insurance  
and could have  declined it if he didnt want it.
Welcome recommended the PPI to Mr L. That meant it had to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure it was right for his circumstances and give him enough clear  information so that 
he could decide  for himself whether  or not he wanted it.
Looking at Mr Ls circumstances  and the policy terms and conditions I cant  say it was 
unsuitable.
Ref: DRN33272172I say this as Mr L was eligible for the PPI and as he was working and in good health he 
wouldnt likely have been affected by any of the main limitations and exclusions which  might 
have made  it more difficult to make  a successful claim.
Mr L has told us he didnt  need the policy as he was working full time and would have 
received six months  full sick pay and six months  half sick pay from his employer if he was off 
work. Hes also told us about family help if hed needed. But this policy  would have paid out 
in addition to any sick pay he got and potentially  for the remaining term of the loan if 
necessary. It would also have paid out on top of any redundancy pay he was entitled  to, 
leaving this to pay for other important living expenses if things went  wrong. And any help 
from family cant  always be relied  on as and when it is needed.
The cost of the policy was added to the loan up front and interest was added. If Mr L 
cancelled the PPI before the end of the term of the loan I dont think its likely he would have 
received a proportionate  refund. But I cant say Mr L intended to repay the loan early when 
he took it out. So I cant say it was unsuitable  for him. 
Its possible that Mr L wasnt  given  all the information he should have been given so that he 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not he wanted  the PPI. But for much  the 
same reasons as Ive explained above as to why I think the PPI was suitable  for him I dont 
think better or clearer information would have put him off buying  the PPI.
Overall, I dont  think Mr L lost out as a result of anything  Welcome might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
But Welcome Financial  Services  Limited has said it will pay £250  to Mr L for the error it 
made when  it sent two conflicting final response  letters to him - the first telling Mr L it was 
upholding his complaint and the second  letter informing him his complaint was in fact not 
being upheld.  It should now get in touch with Mr L about this payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3327217