K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
The PPI insurer accepted responsibility  for the sale and, following a transfer of business, 
AXA took on that responsibility. So, I refer to AXA in this decision rather than to any other  
business. 
background
Mrs K bought the policy in 2000  around  a year and a half after taking  a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs K has said the PPI was sold to her in the shop when she applied for her card and she 
doesnt recall if PPI was ever mentioned.  Ive seen nothing to make  me doubt that Mrs K did 
apply for her card in a shop  like she says. But, from what  AXA has said and what Ive 
seen, her application was made some time before the date Mrs K and AXA say the PPI was 
sold (almost two years before). So, from what I have, I dont think the PPI was added  to 
Mrs Ks card when she applied for it in the shop.
AXA says the PPI was sold by phone. And from what I know  of sales  like Mrs Ks, where PPI 
was sold some time after the card started, the sale was usually  made by phone.  Ive nothing 
here that persuades me something different happened here.
The PPI was sold to Mrs K separately from the card  and after shed already had the card 
running for some time. So, I think its likely Mrs K wouldve known the PPI was something  
separate from the card  and wouldve known  she didnt have to take the PPI to have  the 
card running. 
AXA hasnt been  able to provide a recording of the sales call  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago it was  and it hasnt a call script from the time to show  what mightve been 
discussed. But from what we know of later scripts, AXA made  it clear  the PPI was optional.  
So, with this and all Ive said above  in mind,  I think it likely AXA made it clear in the call that 
Mrs K had a choice about taking the PPI.
In what I know of how AXA sold PPI like this at the time,  theres nothing  that makes  me think 
AXA wouldve  added PPI to Mrs Ks account without  her agreeing to it  and where PPI was 
sold on the phone the agreement wouldve been  given  during the phone  call. Ive nothing to 
make me think this isnt what  happened  here.  I say this bearing in mind that, from what she 
Ref: DRN33434862has told us, Mrs K hasnt a recollection  of the sales call  which  isnt surprising given how 
long ago it was. Also, buying insurance often isnt very memorable. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely  AXA made Mrs K aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and she chose to take it. But it would  be understandable if she didnt 
recall this now, given  the time that has passed.  
AXA and Mrs K agree AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K. This means AXA didnt  have 
to check if the PPI was right for Mrs K. But it had to make sure Mrs K got the information  she 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Mrs K has said she wasnt made aware  she was paying for the policy.  But bearing  in mind 
she doesnt recall  a PPI sales  call, and I think it likely the PPI was sold during a phone call, 
what Mrs K has said doesnt persuade me she wasnt made aware she was paying for the 
PPI. Its possible the information  AXA gave her about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But Mrs K doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  and, based on what  I know  about  her circumstances, it looks like the PPI could 
have been useful to Mrs K. So, taking everything into account,  I dont  think better information 
about the PPI wouldve stopped her buying  it.
Ive carefully considered  all Mrs Ks points and comments, including what shes said about 
having sick pay - of six months  full pay followed by six months half pay - and savings of 
£500, making nine months worth of cover. But, from what shes  said, Mrs Ks income  
wouldve halved after six months and her savings  wouldnt  have made  up the difference  for 
long. So, I still think the PPI couldve been  useful  to her. And, taking everything into account,  
these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3343486