K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund payments made  
from his bank account that he says he didnt authorise.
background
Mr H had a current account  with Halifax. 
Ive compiled a list of the relevant transactions  below. The transactions Mr H disputes are in 
italics.
Date Time Type of transaction Amount
14.08.2017 00.00 Bank Giro Credit £330.88 (cr)
14.08.2017 06:30 ATM  Balance enquiry
14.08.2017 06.31 ATM  Cash  withdrawal £330.00
15.08.2017 00:00 Bank Giro Credit £351.14 (cr)
15.08.2017 14:13 ATM - Balance  enquiry
15.08.2017 14:13 ATM - Balance  enquiry
15.08.2017 14:29 ATM - Balance  enquiry
16.08.2017 00:00 Bank Giro Credit £420.40 (cr)
16.08.2017 23:38 ATM - Balance  enquiry
16.08.2017 23:39 ATM  Cash  withdrawal £250
16.08.2017 23:39 ATM - Balance  enquiry
16.08.2017 23:40 ATM  Cash  withdrawal £250
17.08.2017 04:53 ATM - Balance  enquiry
17.08.2017 05:11 ATM  cash withdrawal £270
Total disputed £770
Mr H says he was out drinking on the night of the 15 August. He says he thinks  his drink  was 
spiked, and he felt very unwell. He cant remember anything  clearly after this. He said he 
was admitted to hospital. He was discharged in the early hours of 16 August.
On 17 August he went into his branch of Halifax and realised he didnt have his debit card. 
He then discovered a number  of withdrawals had been made from his account. Mr H got in 
to a dispute in branch, and the police were called.  Halifax  later made a decision to hold him 
liable for the amount in dispute. The bank also made the decision to close  his account.
Mr H says he didnt carry out the withdrawals and shouldnt be held responsible for them. 
Hes also unhappy with the service hes received from Halifax, and that they wouldnt 
approach the police to get CCTV to show he didnt carry out the withdrawals.
Halifax didnt accept  Mr Hs disputed transaction claim. They said they couldnt see how 
somebody else couldve learnt or known his PIN. They said if the police contact them  with 
CCTV theyll review it, but so far they havent heard from the police. 
Halifax also felt they were entitled to close Mr Hs account, as they feel he had been abusive 
to their branch  staff.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude  that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently and said it was difficult  
Ref: DRN39036842to see how they happened without Mr Hs knowledge or authority. He also didnt think  the 
service provided by Halifax had been  poor.  He didnt recommend Halifax do anything further.
Mr H responded to say Halifax shouldve contacted the police to obtain CCTV as it wouldve 
made a significant  difference to the outcome. He also felt that the service from Halifax had 
been poor and discriminatory.
Mr H asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Generally, Halifax are required to refund unauthorised transactions  and are entitled to hold 
consumers liable for authorised transactions. The relevant regulations,  to this effect, are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs 2009).  Mr H says he didnt make the cash  
withdrawals of £770 and is seeking  a refund of that amount. So my primary concern is to 
decide whether  or I not I think Mr H authorised the withdrawals.  If I decide, on the balance of 
probabilities that he did, then I am unlikely to ask Halifax to refund them.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. 
So I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests that Mr H most likely  consented  
to payment transactions taking place  and as such authorised them. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the withdrawals. 
Ref: DRN39036843Ive considered the possibility that Mr Hs card was taken  that he didnt carry out the 
transactions and someone else gained access to his card and PIN, but having considered all 
the evidence I dont think this is the most  likely explanation and Ill explain why:
The withdrawals  were made using Mr Hs genuine card and PIN, but I dont see a 
convincing explanation of how a third party could have known  his PIN. The last 
genuine usage was several  hours  before transactions that are disputed  took place.  I 
think its unlikely  someone who oversaw him enter his PIN would have followed him 
for that long to take the card.
Mr H hasnt shown us anything to demonstrate  when he was in hospital. But if I 
accept that he was admitted  on the night  of the 15 August  then I think  it would be 
unlikely for a fraudster to wait almost a day before carrying  out a withdrawal, 
especially as there would be a danger Mr H would notice he didnt have his card and 
cancel it.
Ive considered whether Mr H was mistaken about the night he thinks the card was 
taken and he went to hospital  and it was actually 16 August instead. This may mean  
the fraudster  did withdraw cash soon after obtaining his card. But Mr H has always 
been consistent on the point  he was hospitalised  on 15 August. And even then there 
is still no plausible explanation  of how the third-party  came  to know the PIN.
The withdrawals  match the general pattern of how Mr H uses  his account. Looking 
back through his transaction history  I can see he often withdrew  incoming payments 
as cash on the same day. The spending  doesnt look fraudulent, where you might 
expect a fraudster to make the most of having  access to the card and PIN in the 
shortest amount of time.
I think its worth noting that Mr H has been  consistent about saying his drink  was 
spiked. So Ive also considered if he made the transactions, whilst in this state of 
mind, whether  this would make  a difference. Even if he completed the transactions  
while under the influence of a substance, be that alcohol  or a drug, this doesnt mean 
the transactions werent authorised. The bank here wouldnt have known  of Mr Hs 
state and he was the one who ultimately  gave consent.  And for the reasons Ive 
already given  I think its most likely  that Mr H did consent to these transactions,  even 
if under the circumstances  he has described of his drink being spiked.
I know Mr H wanted Halifax to view the CCTV of the withdrawal. But that wouldnt 
necessarily have helped  in determining whether the person withdrawing the money was 
acting with Mr Hs consent or not. I havent  seen  anything  to suggest Halifax have received 
any contact from the police about  the withdrawals or collecting CCTV. And I can see that 
Halifax have always said if Mr H is able to provide CCTV theyll review it. I think  this is 
reasonable.
Ive considered what Mr H has told us about what happened when  in the Halifax  branch. I 
cant know exactly what happened  in branch  on the day in question. But having listened  to a 
call between  Mr H and the bank  from that day, I can hear Mr H acknowledges that he lost his 
temper in branch and he apologises for his behaviour. The evidence shows  Halifaxs staff 
were concerned enough to contact the police. This isnt something Id expect banks to 
normally do, so I think  this reflects how serious  they felt the matter was. And if Halifax  were 
this concerned with Mr Hs behaviour, then I dont think its unreasonable for them  to decide  
to end their banking relationship with him. 
I appreciate this was a very difficult and upsetting time for Mr H. But from the evidence  Im 
satisfied Halifax treated him professionally  and with courtesy. Im satisfied theyve listened to 
Mr Hs side of the story, and explained why they dont feel theyre  liable for refunding these 
Ref: DRN39036844transactions. Ive not seen or heard anything to suggest to me that Mr H has been treated 
differently than other customers in the same  situation. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr H authorised  the disputed 
transactions. It follows that Halifax is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Simon Coe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3903684