K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with his home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  because  
when it carried out repairs at his home following a water damage claim, the quality of work 
wasnt good and it took too long.
background
In August  2017  Mr B told Lloyds thered been a leak at his home. Lloyds  accepted the claim 
and it was agreed it would repair the damage. Once the property  was dry the repairs  began  
in late September  2017. Mr B and his family  were  able to return  home in the first week of 
October 2017.
In January 2018 Mr B contacted Lloyds. He said there were issues  with the repairs that had 
been carried out that needed rectifying.  But also that he was unhappy with how long things 
had taken. Lloyds  visited Mr Bs home to assess the problems. Having done that, in
March 2018, Lloyds issued its final response on the concerns  Mr B had raised.
Lloyds accepted that there had been some delays in responding to Mr Bs complaint and 
offered £50 compensation. Regarding the repairs it said it would calculate a cash settlement, 
as requested by Mr B, to allow him to replace a damaged shower  rail. Mr B had complained 
that his bathroom floor had dropped. Lloyds accepted this, by around  3mm, but noted  that 
Mr Bs wife had been satisfied with its work  when  completed. It didnt think there  was an 
issue with the floor for it to resolve. It said edging around the sink was appropriate and the 
sealant around the shower just needed cleaning.
Mr B remained unhappy  and complained to us. He told us he wanted the floor re-tiling  also 
drawing attention to a cracked tile, so it was flush with the lower edge of the walls.  He also 
said he wanted the sealant  sorting. Mr B was also unhappy about  how Lloyds had handled 
the claim as a whole  and asked us to look at that too.
Our investigator felt that Lloyds should  resolve  the problem with the floor and sealant.  Lloyds  
agreed but debated that re-tiling the floor was necessary. It also didnt accept that the tile 
Mr B had drawn specific attention to was cracked, and objected to us taking this issue  into 
account as Mr B hadnt complained to it about it before. Lloyds offered to fill the gap between 
the wall and the floor. Mr B wasnt happy  with this offer. Our investigator confirmed that he 
felt Lloyds should re-tile it.
Our investigator also said that Lloyds hadnt  always kept Mr B updated. He thought  this 
would have been particularly upsetting for Mr B because his complaint was to do with poor 
repairs. He said Lloyds  should pay a total of £100 compensation. Both parties accepted this.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached  as to how to resolve the floor, the complaint was 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision to be made. I issued  a provisional decision:
my provisional findings
floor
Mr B shouldnt be left with a crack/gap around the base of his walls.  But I dont think  the 
issue is significant enough to justify me requiring Lloyds to re-tile the whole floor.  Even if I felt 
that Mr Bs floor fitted neatly against the walls with no grout  or filler being  required before the 
Ref: DRN30759122leak and repairs, which I dont, I couldnt  reasonably award a disproportionate  settlement. 
Living with a small amount of neatly applied filling material,  or an edging  strip around the 
base of a bathroom wall isnt any different in practical terms to having  a wall and floor that 
meets flush, especially  as that joint would always need to be grouted to ensure it was 
watertight. And Im not convinced the two would  look much  different from each other,  or that 
the look of the repaired  gap would  impact Mr Bs enjoyment of his bathroom.  Therefore, the 
loss Mr B is facing is relatively limited,  whereas the cost to Lloyds, and disruption  to Mr B, in 
re-tiling the floor, would be significant.  So making Lloyds re-tile would, in my view, be a 
disproportionate remedy.
Ive also seen a before  picture of the bathroom  which shows a length of the floor/wall 
juncture coming  away from the toilet towards  the cabinet. The same section, or part of it 
anyway, is shown in the after  photos  as having a gap. I can see a solid white  line in the 
before photos  which  I think  is sealant.  It is certainly  of a brightness I would associate with 
sealant and which is different to the tone of the grout. So I think  there  previously was a clear 
join between the floor and wall tiles. Therefore Lloyds finishing this area off properly now 
will, in my view, put Mr B back into the same  position he was before.
shower sealant
Lloyds has agreed  to reapply sealant  in the area it repaired when it attends to sort the 
floor/wall juncture.  Ive seen photos  of the area of concern and I think thats a reasonable 
response in the circumstances.
cracked tile
Mr B may not have been  specific  about  this in his complaint to Lloyds. However, it has now 
had chance to respond on this issue so I see no reason to not provide this services 
consideration of the dispute  as part of this decision.
Mr B says the tile is cracked. Lloyds says its take on the photo is that the tile isnt cracked  at 
all, rather that dirt has amassed along  a ridge in the tiles surface (part of its natural 
finish).Having seen  the photo I can see why Lloyds might think  as it does.  It might  be correct.  
But I think the photo is far from conclusive.  As Lloyds  is already going to have to re-attend 
Mr Bs property  to resolve the floor/wall juncture  and the shower sealant, I think its 
reasonable for it to consider the tile in question when it does so. It can determine, and gather 
evidence to show, whether it is cracked, and if so, what the likely cause of that is. It can then 
tell Mr B if its prepared to do anything in respect of this tile.
compensation
If its reported that a complaint was handled  badly, I cant consider that or award 
compensation in respect of it. But I can look at what happened in respect  of a claim.
If Mr B hasnt  received  the proffered £50 from Lloyds  (to compensate  him for its delay in 
responding to his complaint) but wants to, he can contact it directly to arrange that. In the 
meantime Ive considered how Lloyds handled Mr Bs claim.
I think the claim, as a whole, completed  relatively quickly  it took around two months. But 
I think there are some periods during that time where for a week  or so here and there the 
matter seems to have been delayed. I can see this would have been frustrating for Mr B. Im 
satisfied that £50 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Ref: DRN30759123responses to my provisional  decision
Lloyds said it accepted my findings. Mr B said he couldnt accept what Id said as it simply 
didnt put him back into the position he was before.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B is disappointed by my findings.  However, I explained provisionally why 
I felt, based  on the evidence  available,  that the award made, did reasonably put Mr B back 
into the position he was most likely  in before the loss. Mr B indicating  he disagrees with me 
in this respect doesnt give me cause to think my findings were  wrong  or unfair. Ive no 
reason to change  my provisional findings; they now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part as Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  
must make good the gap in Mr Bs bathroom, leaving him with a watertight, satisfactory 
looking edge/join by a method such as application  of grouting, silicon or an edging  strip, but 
not such extensive work as re-tiling.
In carrying out that work it will also need to re-seal the shower  as previously agreed.
It will also have  to assess the tile that Mr B says is cracked and it says isnt. Having done  that 
it will have  to tell Mr B what  it intends to do about that, if anything.
I also require Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £50 compensation (in 
addition to the £50 it offered regarding its complaint handling).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or reject 
my decision  before 18 October 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3075912