K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the charges applied on a business account held with Lloyds Bank 
PLC. Mrs G doesnt think that she shouldve had any charges and would like them removed.  
background
Mrs G opened a business account  in October  2013  with Lloyds. 18 months free banking 
applied to the account which meant that there  were no itemised monthly service charges. 
The first service charge  was debited on 20 July 2015. 
Mrs G applied for a £5,000 overdraft on this account and this was fulfilled in June 2014 with 
an arrangement fee of £100 being charged. This overdraft was renewed annually. 
Interest was charged on the agreed overdraft at a rate of 10.56%  until 2016  when it was 
reduced to 10.31%. It has remained the same  since then. 
Mrs G complained to Lloyds as she didnt think that charges shouldve been applied  to her 
account. She, and her partner, Mr G, were suffering ill health and the business that she ran 
had been adversely affected because of this. 
Lloyds wrote their final response  letter on 27 December 2017. They didnt  think that the 
charges had been applied  incorrectly so they werent prepared to refund them.
Mrs G came to us. Our investigator couldnt  find that Lloyds  had done  anything wrong as the 
charges had been applied  in line with the terms and conditions of the account. He was 
sympathetic to the ill-health that Mrs G was suffering but he was unable  to ask Lloyds  to 
refund the charges. 
Mrs G has asked that the complaint be looked  at again by an ombudsman. So, it has now 
come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read,  with particular care, the emails and correspondence from Mrs G and I am in no 
doubt of the difficult  time that she is going  through. This is both with her own ill-health and 
the ill-health of Mr G for whom she is the carer.  These charges have clearly  caused her 
some stress and I am sorry for this. 
But, Im afraid that I cant uphold this complaint as I think that the charges  have  been  
correctly applied by Lloyds. I will explain why.
This complaint is limited only to Mrs Gs business  account with Lloyds and there may be a 
different decision reached on the other  complaint that she has involving the personal 
account. I am aware that Mrs G thinks that the two accounts shouldnt be separated but 
different rules and charges do apply to each so, I think, that they must be looked  at 
separately. 
Ref: DRN31891182Lloyds terms and conditions do allow charges  and interest to be applied to the business  
account. These charges and interest  have been applied correctly  as far as I can see. I do 
appreciate that Mrs G has been  ill but I cant tell Lloyds not to apply the charges and interest 
because of this. It is what Mrs G agreed  to when  she set up the account and overdraft. 
I dont think that there has been  any irresponsible lending on the part of Lloyds. Mrs G is a 
businesswoman who had sufficient means when she took the overdraft. Lloyds were right to 
allow her the overdraft. So there is nothing else for me to consider. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mrs G wanted. But I find that I can make no other  
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I wont ask Lloyd  Bank  PLC to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3189118