K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr C (the estate) is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has
turned down a claim the estate has made on Mr Cs travel insurance policy   and the service
received when handling the claim.
background
Mr C had an annual travel insurance policy (the policy). In July 2018, Mr C left his home  in
the UK to go for a bike ride. Mr C was involved in a collision with a vehicle. He was taken to
hospital but sadly died as a result of his injuries.
The estate  has made a claim on the policy  for the accidental death benefit  in the sum of
£15,000, and for legal expenses cover to legally pursue the driver of the vehicle which
collided with Mr C.
URV has declined  both claims on the basis  that travel insurance is designed to provide
coverage for the risks associated when travelling  abroad or on holiday in the UK. And
although Mr C was involved in an accident whilst away from his home he was taking part in a
leisure activity and the policy  isnt designed  to provide cover for day to day routines or
activities but unforeseen circumstances that may occur whilst  on holiday.
The estate  doesnt  think thats fair. It says under terms of the policy,  Mr C was undertaking a
trip at the time of the collision which ultimately  led to his death. So a complaint was brought
to our Service. Our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. The estate disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me to look at everything  afresh. 
I issued my provisional decision in July 2019 explaining why I was also intending to not 
uphold the complaint but as my reasons for doing  so were different to our investigator,  I 
wanted to give everyone an opportunity to provide their comments. URV had nothing further 
to add. The estate  replied saying Mr C did make bike trips to known cyclist meeting points 
and to visit people  but his intention on the day of the collision was unknown.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
The policy can pay out £15,000 as a result  of:
your accidental bodily injury whilst on your trip, that independently of any other
cause, results in yourdeath.
It can also cover up to £50,000 of:
legal costs and expenses incurred in pursuing claims for compensation and
damages due to your death or personal  injury whilst on the trip.
So the crux of the issue I have to decide  is whether Mr C was on a trip when the collision
occurred.
Trip is defined as:
Ref: DRN30600312a holiday or journey that begins when you leave home and ends on your return to
either (i) your home,  or (ii) a hospital or nursing home in the United Kingdom 
following your repatriation.
At the time of leaving to go on the bike ride in July 2018, Mr C wasnt going on holiday;  the
estate says he set off for a long bike ride a leisure activity  - which wasnt  an unusual 
occurrence.
Journey isnt defined  under  the terms of the policy. The estate says the bike ride is
tantamount to a journey  and if there is any ambiguity  as to what a term means it should be
interpreted in the favour of the beneficiary  of the policy.
Im satisfied the term isnt ambiguous, taking into account the context and purpose of the 
policy in which trip is being  defined.
The ordinary dictionary definition of journey  includes the act of travelling from one place to
another. Although the estate says Mr C did ride his bike from his home  to known cyclist 
meeting points and to visit people, theres  no evidence Mr C was travelling anywhere in 
particular on the day in question; it seems hed set off on a bike ride from his home  and was 
intending to make his way back  there  at some  point the same day. So, I dont think  he was 
on a journey.
Im also satisfied that the policy  wasnt meant  to cover every form of journey that started
from home and either ended at home  or in hospital  (or nursing home).  Taking into account
that this term forms part of a travel  insurance policy, Im satisfied that most people would
reasonably believe  that the reference  to journey  in the definition of trip would need to be
along the lines of a holiday; resulting in a break away somewhere in the UK or abroad -
rather than leaving home to go somewhere (or anywhere) as long as you intended to return
home at the end of journey. Thats supported  by the sort of cover afforded  by the policy
which includes medical treatment whilst  away, lost baggage, delays to departures of 12
hours or more and cutting short a trip for certain prescribed reasons.
As such Im not persuaded that URV has acted unfairly or unreasonably  by declining the 
claims made  by the estate  on Mr Cs policy; the injuries he occurred as a result of the
collision  which ultimately  led to his death - didnt occur whilst Mr C was on a trip.
Ive taken into account what the estate  says about the policy covering cycling.  Just because
cycling is covered under  the policy doesnt mean  URV has unfairly  declined  the claims.  Im
satisfied that just means had Mr C been  on a trip and had been injured  or died -
whilst cycling,  any claim wouldnt have been  declined on the grounds that he had been
cycling  as that was a permitted activity under the policy.
The estate  is also unhappy  with the way in which URV has handled the claim for
reimbursement of a pre-booked flight which Mr C was unable to use  which I understand
has now been paid.  Even if URV couldve handled the claim better, I dont  have the power to
award any compensation to the executor of the will and /or representative of the estate for
any inconvenience they experienced or frustration they mightve felt. Thats because they
are not the policyholder; Mr C was.
Ref: DRN30600313my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask the estate of Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 
29 September 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3060031