K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of payment protection  insurance  (PPI) with a Marks and 
Spencers account in 1994. 
A company called Allianz Insurance plc is now responsible for these types of sale,  so Ill be 
referring to Allianz  throughout this decision.
background
I can see Mrs and Mr B have been  offered some money back,  but Allianz says the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold.  One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and also said it wasnt mis-
sold. But Mrs and Mr B disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Bs mis-sale complaint.
Mrs and Mr B are represented by a company which  says Mrs B was unemployed at the 
time of the sale and wouldnt  have been able to benefit from the PPI cover. It also says Mr 
B was made redundant in 1994 and didnt  make a claim on the policy.  It says this shows 
Mrs and Mr B werent even aware  they had any PPI.
However, whilst  Im sure Mrs and Mr B now honestly and genuinely believe they were mis-
sold this type of cover, these events are now some 25 years old. So its not unreasonable  
for me to take into account that remembering what happened will be challenging.
I say this because  we were sent a copy of the application form Mrs B used to get her Marks 
and Spencers  account. There was a section on the form which  was about PPI and there 
was a box to tick if it was something that she wanted to have. To get the PPI added, Mrs B 
was required to tick the box. But there was also a section about who was to be the person 
insured. For this, Mrs B named her husband,  Mr B. And she went  on to provide his full title 
and date of birth. She also signed the application  form at the bottom  of the page. 
So I think Mrs B would have been able to see, back in 1994, that this policy was optional 
and that she didnt need to buy it if she didnt want to. I think she positively engaged in the 
PPI sale process by providing Mr Bs details and signing the form. Proper  consent  was 
therefore obtained in my view.
I dont think this was an advised  sale because I havent seen any of the type of paperwork  
we associate with advised sales. So I think Mrs Bs application form was filled out and then 
sent off to be processed, on a non-advised basis. This corresponds with many similar cases  
Ive seen.
This means  it was for Mrs B to decide for herself whether the PPI was right for her particular 
circumstances. She still had a right to be given information that was clear  so she could  make  
an informed decision about  what she wanted to do.
Ref: DRN33056142Obviously all this happened  a very long time ago and I cant say Mrs B was told everything 
she should have  been. And I can see ways in which the form could have  been  set out more 
clearly. But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall decision, because  I think Mrs B would 
have still taken out the cover.
This is because I think she could see the policy  wasnt something she needed  to buy. I also 
think Mr B, who she had specifically named as the person  she wanted to be covered, was 
eligible for the PPI and not caught by any of the main  exclusions we tend to see in some of 
these policies. I can see the cost was disclosed on the form at the point where  she was 
asked to make her choice. And at 64p for every  £100  outstanding on her card account, I 
think the PPI was probably affordable  for her.
I think the benefits on this PPI compared well with other PPI policies  Ive seen in that Mrs B 
could have had her balance reduced  by 15% each month if Mr B had needed to claim. This 
could have continued until the balance  was paid off. So I think  the policy  was of use and as a 
non-advised sale, Im afraid Mrs B made her own decision about  whether or not to add the 
cover.
Finally, I understand  the point being made  about Mr B being subsequently made redundant 
yet not making  a claim on the policy. I havent seen confirmation of this or when it was. I 
cant therefore say if Mr B was eligible to claim under the policy  rules and I cant  comment  on 
why he might not have  claimed. But as well as the very strong evidence Ive mentioned 
above about Mrs B choosing the cover, my experience  is that PPI would  have showed  up 
regularly on her card account  monthly statements. I think  she would have therefore been 
able to see the policy had been set up, in accordance with her instructions at the time of the 
sale.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr B, but I dont think  the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint and I dont  direct Allianz Insurance plc to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3305614