K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained he was mis-sold a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr H took out the PPI in January 2003 when he applied for a credit  card.  BoS said the sale 
took place during a meeting and that Mr H was advised to take the cover.  Mr H said he 
wasnt given a choice  about taking the PPI and he didnt get any information  about it  and 
he didnt need  it.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mr H had successfully claimed  on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and so didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mr Hs credit card application form. This shows a cross in a box to say 
that he wanted PPI (but no cross in a second box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all of the information on the form, including  Mr Hs 
income and employment details.  So I think its most likely that the form was printed out after 
a discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion.  I consider it 
reasonable to think that Mr H wouldve  looked  over the form he signed, even if only briefly. 
So, on balance, I think Mr H was aware  of the PPI and was given a choice about whether to 
take it - and that he agreed to it. I think he probably  just doesnt remember  doing so given 
that it was all so long ago.
Im satisfied BoS advised Mr H to take out the policy.  So it had to make  sure that it was 
suitable for him. I think  it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But Ive no reason to think that Mr H wouldve been affected  
by any of these. 
Mr H said he wouldve  been entitled to between six and twelve  months sick pay from his 
employer  and indeed had been  off work  for seven months in the past and had received full 
sick pay throughout. He also said hed had private  medical insurance and that his pension  
scheme included  death benefit.  He didnt mention having had any savings at the time of the 
sale. 
Ref: DRN33279112Ive thought about what Mr H told us  but I think its likely that Mr Hs medical insurance 
wouldve covered  medical  costs  only, rather than pay a monthly benefit that he couldve 
used for his day to day expenses (such as his credit  card repayments) . We asked Mr H for 
more information  about the policy, but nothing was sent in. So Ive no reason to think it was 
anything different. 
I accept that Mr H had good  sick pay  but on the other hand I think Mr H couldve found  it 
difficult to meet the monthly payments on the card once his sick pay ended  or if hed lost his 
job  and Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. So 
on balance I dont think there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mr H. As Ive said, I cant  know 
how the adviser explained the policy, or whether  Mr H mightve been given a policy summary 
during the meeting (although BoS sent in a copy letter suggesting the full policy  document 
was sent out shortly  after the sale). So its possible the information about  the cost and 
benefits may not have been  as clear as it shouldve been at the point of sale.
However, given Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed his decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr H back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr H now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt done so already.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3327911