K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr W says PPI wasnt mentioned when he took out the credit card. Halifax has given me 
a copy of the signed credit agreement from the sale. This had a separate  section for 
additional services.  I can see there  is an X printed  into the box next to PPI, but the box 
next to card care  has been  left blank. So I think Mr W was aware he could pick and 
choose which products he wanted.  
Ive considered the fact that the X in the PPI box had been printed onto the page. 
Looking at the credit agreement, Mr Ws personal information, such  as his occupation 
and income, have also been  printed onto the page. Because  of this, I think the 
agreement was completed and printed out for Mr W to sign following a conversation with 
him and a Halifax representative. And I think its more likely that PPI was also discussed   
at that point. On balance,  having taken everything into account, I think  Halifax made it 
clear that Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr W had no sick pay or savings available to him at the time of the sale. The policy  
couldve covered  his repayments for up to 12 months per claim if he was too ill to work,  
had an accident  or was made redundant. I appreciate  Mr W has said he had a good 
income and also sold items to supplement  this income. But the policy was there to insure 
him against the possible risk of not being  able to work, so I still think he couldve found  it 
useful. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more  and I understand  Halifax has already paid this 
to Mr W.
Ref: DRN39384072my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3938407