K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  acted irresponsibly when it 
gave him unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about thirteen loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr P between September 2014 
and November 2017. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
loan 
numberloan 
started loan paidamount 
£monthly 
instalments
1 26/09/2014 09/10/2014 550 6
2 19/10/2014 06/11/2014 610 6
3 06/12/2014 11/12/2014 700 5
4 27/12/2014 31/12/2014 500 6
5 02/01/2015 06/01/2015 500 6
6 17/01/2015 18/02/2015 400 6
7 15/08/2015 12/12/2015 600 6
8 05/01/2016 02/02/2016 650 5
9 19/03/2016 11/04/2016 450 6
10 18/06/2016 28/06/2016 650 6
11 30/09/2016 13/10/2016 800 6
12 14/10/2017 19/10/2017 700 6
13 17/11/2017 02/03/2018 1,000 6
Except for loan 13, all the loans were  paid early. 
Mr P complained that he took out a number of payday loans from Mr. Lender at high interest 
rates which he struggled to pay back on top of all his other loans. He told us that Mr Lender 
should have realised from the number  of times he borrowed that his debt problems were 
getting worse. And it wasnt responsible to continue  to lend to him.
Mr Lender said that before each loan was issued  Mr Ps applications were subject to 
responsible lending assessments which included thorough affordability checks and 
employment checks, along  with receiving copies of pay slips as proof of income. Mr Lender 
also said that although not obliged  to conduct  a credit check, it performed credit checks on 
each application.  
Mr Lender told us that when Mr P failed to pay the first instalment  due on loan 13 it tried to 
contact him about  the missed payment and it later heard from Mr P that he was entering into 
a debt management plan. To assist him, Mr Lender  put his account on hold whilst waiting to 
hear from the debt management agency   and then worked alongside Mr Ps chosen debt 
management agency to help him with settling the outstanding balance. 
Mr Lender sent Mr P a settlement offer and in March 2018 Mr P made a single payment to 
settle the account directly with Mr Lender. 
Ref: DRN33736002Mr Lender told us this meant  that Mr P paid £446.56 less than the original capital amount 
hed borrowed and no interest towards this loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say that loans  
1  3, and loans 12  13 were unfair,  but he felt that Mr Lender shouldnt  have approved  
loans 4 - 11.  
Mr Lender hasnt responded  to the adjudicators opinion. So the complaint comes  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
And Ive thought carefully about  everything Mr Lender has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators assessment.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN33736003Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I think  the gap in lending between loan 11 and loan 12 was long 
enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr P had put his finances in order as it would 
seem that he hadnt been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This 
meant that when his borrowing started  again,  and Mr P applied  for loan 12 in October  2017  
around a year after hed paid loan 11, he was effectively starting  over. So I think  it was fair 
for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests 
accordingly.
Ive taken into account what Mr Lender  says about the other  gaps in lending. But I dont 
agree with Mr Lender when it says that the gap between loans 6 and 7 was sufficient to say 
this broke  the lending  chain. 
It looks like this gap was almost 6 months.  I accept that in some circumstances it might be 
fair to say this could  be long enough  to suggest that it would be fair to treat the borrowers 
next loan application as if he was starting  afresh. 
But I don't  think  thats a reasonable assumption  here. I say this because Mr P had been 
borrowing regularly up to loan 6  and although after the first three loans the amounts 
borrowed had then been static or reducing, when he resumed borrowing loan 7 was for an 
increased amount  (£600).  This was half as much again as Mr P had taken out on loan 6. 
So overall I dont  think this gap in lending  was enough to suggest that Mr Ps financial 
circumstances had improved during  the period when he hadnt been  actively borrowing from 
Mr Lender. 
And I dont  think that the gap of just over three months between loans 10 and 11 seems long 
enough to me for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr P mightve put his finances in order 
during this period.
So Im looking at two lending chains with loans  1 - 11 in chain 1 and loans 12 and 13 making  
up chain 2.
LENDING CHAIN 1 
Loans 1, 2, and 3
I have looked  at the information gathered, including income and expenditure information 
from the time, and I agree that there  isnt enough  to say Mr Lender shouldnt have provided  
these loans to Mr P. As Mr P hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators  recommendation in 
relation to these  loans  I dont think I need to say any more about  them.
Ref: DRN33736004Loan 4 
Given that what Mr P was saying about his financial circumstances  appeared at odds with 
his borrowing pattern, I agree with our adjudicator that by now, Mr Lender shouldve  realised 
that Mr P was struggling to manage  his debt. 
Just 5 days after taking  out loan 3, Mr P repaid the £700 hed borrowed.  This was the third 
time in a row that hed arranged a loan to be repaid over five or six months and paid it back 
in just a few weeks  before taking out a new loan soon after.  This suggests  to me that Mr P 
wasnt using these loans  as intended.  
After paying loan 3, just over two weeks later and within the same month, he applied  to 
Mr Lender for loan 4. I think this was a clear  sign that he wasnt  responsibly managing  his 
money - it looks like Mr P couldnt  afford  to pay back what he had borrowed without 
borrowing again. And this pattern of borrowing is suggestive of borrowing elsewhere and 
using multiple short  term lending accounts.
Although loan 4 appeared affordable on the figures  Mr P gave, I think  Mr Lender shouldve  
realised that Mr Ps borrowing pattern meant it didnt look like this was the case. And I think 
that Mr Lender shouldnt have continued  to lend to Mr P without a more  thorough  check of 
his circumstances  to see if the loans really  were sustainably affordable  for him.
Mr Lender has provided some credit information   but it doesnt help explain Mr Ps 
borrowing history. So I think  Mr Lender  shouldve enquired further  to obtain a proper 
understanding of Mr Ps financial  situation  and specifically in relation to any other short 
term lending. Mr Lender hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant  fairly say that it carried  out a 
proportionate check before agreeing  loan 4. 
This means  I dont  think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think  that it was likely Mr P would  
be able sustainably to repay loan 4, or any further  loans  so it shouldnt  have provided this 
loan, or any further  loans  to him. 
Loan 6 onwards
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 6. Here are my reasons for saying this:
Mr P wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably. He had taken out 6 loans since  
hed started borrowing  from Mr Lender  barely 4 months earlier 
there hadnt been any significant gaps in borrowing
although loan 6 was for less that the amount borrowed when  he took out loan 5, this 
loan also followed the repay  and then quickly borrow again pattern that hed relied 
on so far  Mr P arranged  loan 6 to start less than two weeks after he paid loan 5, 
indicating his need for ongoing credit
Ref: DRN33736005this is borne out by the fact that loan 7 was for half as much again  as loan 6, and 
loan 8 was slightly  bigger  than loan 7 and taken  out soon after loan 7 was paid, 
despite the fact that Mr Lenders checks showed  that Mr Ps take home pay had gone 
up by more than a £100. And although there  was some reduction in loan 9, loans 10 
and 11 showed  an upward borrowing trend. This supports my overall view that this 
pattern of lending  generally shows that Mr Ps borrowing was unsustainable and hed 
become dependent on this sort of expensive credit.
I think that Mr P lost out when Mr Lender provided loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  
the number  of loans Mr P borrowed was likely  to impact adversely on his ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for high-cost loans. By 
loan 6 any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to his credit rating.
So Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint about  loans 4 to 11.
LENDING CHAIN 2
Loans 12 and 13
Mr P didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the period October  2016   October 
2017. Ive explained above  why I think that gap in lending seems long enough for Mr Lender 
reasonably to think that Mr P mightve  put his finances in order during this period.  
This meant that when his borrowing started  again, and Mr P applied for loan 12, he was 
effectively starting over.  So it was fair for Mr Lender  to treat this as a new chain of 
borrowing and assess his lending  requests accordingly.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks  it did before lending  to Mr P. It asked him to provide 
details of his income  and to tell Mr Lender what he normally spent each month  including 
what he was paying for other borrowing. Mr Lender  also carried out checks on Mr Ps credit 
file.
Its my view that:
the repayment amounts on loans 12 and 13, and 
given what was apparent about  Mr Ps circumstances  at the time,  and 
the fact that his previous borrowing history  wasnt a relevant consideration after a 
year when  he hadnt asked Mr Lender  for any loans, 
meant it wouldnt have  been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr P for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
these loans. So Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans 12 and 13.
Ref: DRN33736006putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans (loans 4 -11), including payments Mr P made to a third party  
where applicable, but not including anything it has already  refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr P which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally  made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender may  if it chooses to do so  use the total of A plus B to repay any 
principal which it wrote off as part of a redress scheme.
D) Pay any remaining refund to Mr P. If there  is no refund  left and still a balance outstanding  
made up of written-off  principal, it would not be fair for Mr Lender  to pursue this further.
E) Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5. The overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing for loans 6 to 11 means any information  
recorded about them is adverse, so Mr Lender  should remove  these loans entirely from 
Mr Ps credit  file. And if the debt purchaser to whom Mr Lender  sold the final loan put any 
information about it onto Mr Ps credit file, Mr Lender should ask it to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
should give Mr P a certificate  showing how much tax it deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should put things 
right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3373600