K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
background
Mr M took out six loans  with Mr Lender between April 2013 and June 2015. There was a gap 
of almost two years  between loans  3 and 4. 
Heres a table showing  more information:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 23/04/2013 30/04/2013 1 £500.00 £587.50
2 30/04/2013 10/05/2013 1 £500.00 £650.00
3 22/05/2013 14/06/2013 1 £550.00 £632.50
4 07/03/2015 20/03/2015 2 £500.00 £350.00
5 23/04/2015 29/05/2015 6 £900.00 £416.40
6 19/06/2015 01/09/2015 6 £950.00 £485.13
Mr M said that Mr Lender had issued loans  to him when he was already in a debt 
management programme  and he couldnt  afford the repayments as he had no spare cash.
When he complained  to Mr Lender it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and the 
loans Mr Lender issued  were fair and affordable based on the information Mr M provided at 
the time and the checks that were  carried out. 
So Mr M brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator said that he considered loans 1-3 and loans 4-6 as two separate lending 
chains  given  the length of time between loans 3 and 4. 
And overall,  our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Ms circumstances  and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Mr Lender to ask Mr M for the amount of information  needed  to show  the lending was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator  didnt think that the number of loans Mr M had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Mr Lender shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to think he was having money  problems. So he didnt  uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN32492212Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender provided Mr M with high-interest loans  intended for short-term  use. So Mr Lender  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Mr Lender was required to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr M before  providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were  proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much  
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr Lender says it agreed to Mr Ms applications after carrying out eligibility, creditworthiness  
and affordability checks. And it relied  on information Mr M provided  about his monthly 
income and expenditure as well as information obtained  from credit reference agencies.  It 
says the information Mr M provided showed  that repaying the balances wouldnt become  
difficult for him - and in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr M and Mr Lender have said. 
loan 1
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong  to lend Mr M loan 1. This was his first loan with Mr Lender 
 and so I think  Mr Lender was entitled  to rely on the information  Mr M provided. This 
suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr M didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve  alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems.
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr M provided or the information 
Mr Lender had, which meant that Mr Lender  shouldve enquired further  into Mr Ms financial 
circumstances. So I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint  about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr M repaid loan 1 early   and he took out the second loan the same day and borrowed the 
same amount again that hed just repaid.  
Ref: DRN32492213But I dont think there was anything in the information that Mr Lender had recorded  for Mr M, 
or anything  else that it shouldve  been  aware of, which wouldve made Mr Lender  think this 
loan wasnt affordable for Mr M. 
So I dont  feel Ive seen  enough to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mr M paid loan 2 early and took out loan 3 less than two weeks  later  and Ive taken into 
account that he borrowed a little more  money  this time.
But Mr M hadnt shown  any signs that hed found it hard to pay for loans 1 and 2, The figures 
hed declared,  and the information Mr Lender had collected, seem to support Mr Lenders  
lending decision  loan 3 appears  to have been affordable  for Mr M on the available 
information. And whilst  I think Mr Lender  couldve gone further in the checks  it did before 
agreeing to provide loan 3 to Mr M, I havent  seen  enough to make  me think that 
proportionate checks for loan 3 wouldve revealed  information showing that this loan was 
unsustainable for Mr M.
So Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about loan 3.
loan 4
I can see that Mr M deferred a payment on loan 3, which might  suggest  hed had a problem 
making the repayments on the due date.  But like the adjudicator, I think the gap in lending  
between loan 3 and loan 4 was long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think  that Mr M had 
put his finances in order as it looked like he hadnt been dependent on high cost short term 
loans during this period. 
This meant that when his borrowing started  again, and Mr M applied  for loan 4 in March  
2015, almost two years after hed paid loan 3, he was effectively starting  over. So I think  it 
was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess  his lending  
requests accordingly.
I think that the amounts that Mr M needed to repay on this loan wouldve seemed relatively 
affordable compared  with the take home  pay hed declared. And given what was apparent  
about his circumstances I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr 
M for the amount  of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before  agreeing this loan.
So Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about loan 4.
Ref: DRN32492214loan 5
Ive taken into account that loan 5 was the biggest  loan to date that Mr M had taken  out with 
Mr Lender  and hed only repaid loan 4 around a month or so previously. 
But on the figures hed provided,  this loan looked affordable. And Ive also kept in mind  that 
despite this being loan number 5, this was only Mr Ms second loan application to Mr Lender 
after a 22 month  break in lending. So I dont think there was anything in the information Mr M 
provided, or the information Mr Lender  shouldve  been aware of, which meant  it wouldve 
been proportionate for Mr Lender to make  more in depth enquiries into what Mr M had said 
about his financial  situation. 
So I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint about  loan 5.
loan 6
By now, Mr M had entered into a debt arrangement  scheme  this started in May 2015. But 
Mr Lender didnt know this at the time  Mr M hadnt said anything  about this. And as far as 
Mr Lender was concerned, Mr M had repaid loan 5 without any evident difficulty   so it had 
no particular reason to think  he was having  money problems. 
Ive looked at the information Mr Lender gathered, including income and expenditure 
information from the time, and I dont feel theres enough to be able to say Mr Lender 
shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. Or that it wouldve been proportionate  for 
Mr Lender to ask Mr M for the amount of information  that would be needed to show  this loan 
wasnt sustainably affordable for him - despite it looking like Mr M could  afford to pay.
So I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint about  loan 6.
Im sorry  that Mr M found repaying these loans  difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Ms 
financial situation possibly  wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Mr Lender obtained.
But Mr Lender could  only decide Mr Ms lending applications based on the information  it had 
available at the time. And, looking at his borrowing record,  I dont think  proportionate checks 
wouldve required Mr Lender to ask Mr M to prove what he was declaring or check other  
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. And the information Mr M provided  suggested that these loans were all 
affordable for him.
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Mr Lender  did anything wrong in deciding  to lend to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN32492215my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3249221