K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that she wasnt given reasonable warning that the term of her loan with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) was due to end and she had to repay the debt. 
background 
Ms S took out a £25,000 interest  only loan with RBS in October 2007 with a 10 year term. 
That meant she would only make payments to cover the interest during the term of the loan 
and had to repay the £25,000  she borrowed in October 2017. 
Ms S says she thought the loan had another five years to run before the term ended but after 
it wasnt repaid RBS got in touch and advised she needed to arrange repayment. 
Ms S complained as she thought RBS shouldve done more  before the term ended  to warn 
her. Ms S has explained that during this time she was arranging  a new mortgage  and the 
issue with her loan delayed this, increasing her costs. 
A complaint was made  but there  were  delays when RBS lost some information. RBS 
responded in February and March 2018  and offered Ms S £30 because  of the service she 
received. But it said Ms S had been  sent a reminder letter before the end of the term and 
that RBS had also sent her regular statements. There were delays discussing Ms S options  
with her because RBS had the wrong phone  number recorded. 
Ms S repaid the loan on 29 March 2018  and her mortgage completed around the same time.  
Ms S referred her complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked at what  had happened. 
They asked RBS to increase its offer to a total of £300 because they didnt feel it had given 
fair warning that the loan term was due to end. They also said that the service RBS had 
provided had been  poor and communication with Ms S hadnt been good  enough.  RBS 
agreed to increase its offer.  
The adjudicator forwarded the offer to Ms S but she hasnt accepted as she thinks the level 
of compensation  is too low considering  how she was treated and she also wants  RBS to 
cover her increased mortgage costs. As Ms S didnt accept the case has been passed  too 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I think  RBS couldve  done more to let Ms S know that the term of her 
loan was due to come to an end. RBS says it sent Ms S a reminder letter before the end of 
the term but its not provided any evidence to support that. And the statements Ive seen 
dont show an end of term date. This was a reasonably long term personal  loan and I 
appreciate that Ms S wasnt entirely  sure when it ended.  
However, I need to be fair to both sides of the complaint. And whilst I accept RBS couldve 
done more towards  the end of the term, theres nothing in the loan agreement  that says it will 
contact the borrower  before repayment  is due. In addition, Ms S accepted the terms of the 
loan agreement in 2007 when she borrowed the money from RBS. And the terms say that in 
Ref: DRN32953902October 2017 she would repay RBS the money she borrowed. I agree RBS couldve done 
more to ensure  Ms S was aware towards  the end of the term. But I also think  RBS had a 
reasonable expectation that Ms S wouldve been aware of when she needed to arrange  
repayment and take the necessary steps  to ensure funds were in place. 
Ms S says that repayment of the loan and her mortgage application were delayed because  
RBS wouldnt negotiate with her when she asked  to make a partial repayment. But RBS 
didnt have to relook  at the loan terms or agree a partial settlement. The loan agreement is 
clear in saying that after 120 months  Ms S will make a full repayment.  So whilst I appreciate 
Ms S wanted RBS to accept a partial settlement and provide another loan for the remainder, 
I havent found it treated her unfairly  by declining to do so. 
Ms S says that shes had to take another loan out to cover the amount she owed to RBS in 
full and thats going to cost her more  in the long run. But, for the reasons Ive give above, I 
dont think that means  RBS has made  an error as it didnt have to offer new lending. 
Ive thought about whether RBS should cover the additional interest Ms S incurred  while her 
mortgage was on the standard variable  rate but I dont think  thats fair. Ive not found any 
evidence that RBS told Ms S it would refinance the loan or accept a partial settlement. Ms S 
was aware from November 2017  onwards  and Ive not found  that RBS  actions caused the 
primary delay  that meant the loan wasnt repaid until March 2018.  
RBS had a wrong  telephone number for Ms S and that does appear to have affected its 
communication with her. I can also see that RBS appears to have  mislaid  some information 
and couldve  dealt  with the complaint more quickly. I agree that the service  Ms S received 
shouldve been  better and that there were some delays when trying to speak with her. The 
adjudicator asked RBS to increase its offer by £270  to a total of £300,  taking  into account the 
trouble and upset  caused to Ms S. Ive carefully  considered everything Ms S has said about  
the impact of these  issues on her. Having done so, Im satisfied that the £300 total 
settlement figure RBS has agreed to pay is fair in all the circumstances. So Im not telling 
RBS to increase  its offer or do anything else to resolve this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc to pay 
Ms S £300 less any compensation already paid. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept  or reject my decision 
before 18 March 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3295390