K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit  card in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However Mrs M has already received some  money back  for the commission Barclays  
received from selling her the PPI. Mrs M still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first 
place and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint  has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
I dont doubt that Mrs Ms recollections about being mis-sold PPI are honestly and 
genuinely held.  However, these events  took place a considerable time ago and Mrs M says 
she cant remember much  about getting  her new card. Barclays  records  show the sale took 
place in one of its branches.
I also think its clear  Mrs M was offered a choice about having PPI. This is because we 
have a copy of the actual  application form she used and I can see there is a yes or no 
option about having PPI with the new card. Mrs Ms form had a tick in the yes box. She 
also initialled at this point  and then signed the application form.
I think this therefore  shows she wanted  PPI. But I also think  she would have seen her 
monthly credit card statements showing that she had taken  out the PPI too. So, in my view, 
there is strong evidence  that Mrs M consented to the PPI policy and would have  been  able 
to see it had been set up on her account.
Barclays had a responsibility to make  sure the policy was suited to Mrs M. I think it was.
I say this because  she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I also see that the cost was around 79p 
for every £100 outstanding on the card, which  I think  would have been affordable  for her. 
Mrs M said she already had some protection  against  sickness  with her job. But Im afraid  this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use. The policy would have  paid off, for example, 
10% of her outstanding credit card balance, for up to a year, if shed  needed to claim. This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  she had at that time. 
So I think the policy was suitable for her. 
Ref: DRN35501462Barclays also had a duty to make  sure it provided  clear enough  information  to enable Mrs M 
to make an informed decision about  what she wanted to do. I can certainly see ways in 
which the form could  have been  clearer. But I also think  some  additional written and verbal  
information about the rules and terms of the PPI would have been provided at the time of the 
sale. And even if I accept Barclays could and should  have  done  more, I still dont think this 
would have changed what Mrs M went on to do. This is because the evidence shows  she 
wanted the cover and would have seen she had a choice.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but I think the evidence shows she chose the policy herself 
and would have  known it wasnt something  she needed to have in order to get the card.  This 
means Im not upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs M about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right,  it has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already paid her for the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3550146