K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Union Reiseversicherung AG when he 
made a claim on his travel insurance.  
background
In 2017 Mr C had an accident whilst on holiday in France and sustained  multiple serious  
injuries. He was airlifted to hospital and admitted  to intensive care. He received significant  
medical intervention  for his injuries  before being repatriated back to the UK. 
In summary,  Mr C is unhappy because he says it took a long time for URV to confirm  cover,  
they didnt communicate effectively with the treating hospital or the family and failed to 
arrange to pay the hospital. His family  had to repeatedly chase for updates and say they 
didnt get the right level of support. 
URV offered a total of £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C. They 
acknowledged the level of service Mr C received fell below their expected  standards  and 
apologised for any additional stress caused. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She explained that she could only award 
compensation to Mr C as he was the only person named on the policy.  And, whilst she 
identified issues with delays and poor communication, she was satisfied that this hadnt 
impacted on Mr Cs treatment or repatriation  to the UK. She didnt think that there was 
evidence to suggest that the bills werent  handled appropriately. 
Mr C didnt agree  he says URV relied on out of date medical evidence and this meant  his 
daughters partner, who Ill refer to as Mr L, had to step in to help. He doesnt see why URV 
were unable to get the information they needed  to start the repatriation process. So, I need  
to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  industry  guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer  must:
Ref: DRN31362262(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Experiencing a medical emergency abroad  is in itself upsetting and stressful.  My role is to 
decide whether  URV acted fairly and responded appropriately to Mr Cs circumstances. 
Mr C has made detailed  representations and Ive considered them all. However, Ill only refer 
to the points which I think are central to my findings.  I do think  there were  failings  in how the 
claim was handled.  But I think the offer of £750 is fair and reasonable because:
I can see Mr Cs family had a frustrating and upsetting  experience which included a 
number of issues such as calls not being returned, having to travel abroad to get 
medical information and not being kept up to date.  Communication was 
predominantly driven by the family,  not URV. Thats  disappointing  because Mr Cs 
family were already dealing with a highly  stressful situation  and ought  to have 
received a better service when liaising with URV on Mr Cs behalf. But I cant award 
compensation to Mr Cs family for the trouble and upset they experienced because 
they arent party to the contract of insurance
I think URV could have done  more to work with the treating hospital as there were  
lots of issues in relation  to communication. Mr C was in his 70s and had suffered 
from serious injuries. He didnt  speak the language  and the family were  put in the 
position of having  to liaise with the hospital to get information. This is something Id 
expect the insurer  to take care of, not Mr C and his family.  Mr C had paid for the 
benefit of cover  and they were entitled to expect a service in return  
There was a delay  in requesting the GP records. This should have been done more  
quickly and once  the claim was first reported  to URV. But I dont  think  it significantly 
impacted on the timescales for repatriating Mr C. I say that because  he remained 
very unwell  for several weeks and I think its unlikely he would have been repatriated  
at such an early  stage, especially given the severity of his injuries and his need  for 
ongoing treatment
Mr C says URV relied on out of date information.  Its disappointing that a copy  of the 
call between URVs doctor and Mr L isnt available. But I accept URV  may well have 
been relying on out of date information during  that call based on the evidence  that is 
available. The familys testimony  has been  clear, credible and consistent  on that 
point. And I accept this fell below the standard Id expect  as URV should ensure their 
medical team have  the most up to date information available.  However,  I can see that 
URV based their decision to repatriate  based  on all the updated medical evidence. 
So, even  if this wasnt considered by the doctor in the call, Im satisfied the relevant 
information was considered by the medical team at the appropriate time and was 
considered during  the repatriation plans
Ref: DRN31362263I appreciate that Mr Cs family may have  been  told by the hospital that he was stable 
enough to travel  home. But that isnt reflected in the medical reports in September.  I 
also bear in mind that during September  Mr C was still recovering from serious 
injuries. He was still receiving non-invasive ventilation until 11 September  and wasnt 
transferred out of the Intensive Care Unit until on or around 15 September. So, I think  
it is unlikely repatriation  could have taken place at that point, based on the 
information thats been provided
Mr L sent URV a medical report on 19 September. In the covering email  he says that 
the treating doctors saw no reason for Mr C not to travel. But the medical report  
doesnt say that. It provides an update about Mr Ls condition but makes no 
recommendation about how or when to move Mr C 
I can see URV were considering repatriation by road by 21 September  but this didnt 
progress as they were  told by Mr L during  a phone call that Mr C was having another 
operation that day. Thats consistent with the medical reports which refer to an MRI 
scan being requested on 22 September and a CT scan taking place the following 
day. So, I think its likely that the treating doctors were  considering  further treatment 
at that point
Following a review of Mr Cs overall  clinical condition the medical notes on 5 October 
say, the surgical  indication is no longer retained  which  is consistent with a call Mr L 
made the same day saying the surgery wasnt going ahead. I think  it is unlikely Mr C 
could have been repatriated before the 5 October,  despite  the failings  Ive identified. I 
say that because this was the first time that the treating hospital confirmed in writing 
that, a medical  evacuation  to England is possible at the request of the family. So, 
taking into account all of the available evidence, I think  its reasonable to conclude 
that this was the first time URV  could have  reasonably started  to make repatriation  
plans 
Mr C makes the point that URVs actions  were characterised by delays, 
incompetence and an utter inability to communicate  effectively with the treating  staff 
at the hospital.  He says their initial failures  certainly would  have delayed  the 
repatriation had the hospital  not reversed an earlier assessment that Mr C was fit to 
fly. Whilst I agree that URV let Mr C and his family  down for a number of reasons, I 
can only take into account what did happen  rather than what  might  have  happened.  
And, as Mr C acknowledges, the hospital changed their view about the treatment 
plan for Mr C during  his admission 
There was a delay  of a few days  in URV  chasing  up the final information  needed  to 
arrange the repatriation. This was an avoidable  delay that shouldnt have happened,  
particularly bearing in mind that Mr C had been  in hospital  with serious injuries for 
several weeks and they were  told on 3 October  that Mr C was becoming distressed 
and lonely
Ref: DRN31362264On 9 October URV  called the hospital  who said there had been no change in Mr Cs 
condition and agreed to re-send a medical report. On the same day Mr L emailed  
information to URV  as well - this was sufficient for URV to finalise  their review. On 
the 10 October the decision  to repatriate  Mr C was taken.  A medical escort team  was 
arranged, sent to Mr Cs location  on the 14 October and he was repatriated by road 
on the 15 October.  So, Im satisfied that the repatriation look place within a 
reasonable timescale
URV sent the hospital billing instructions on 27 September. I cant  say why the 
hospital contacted Mr C for payment  following his return  to the UK rather  than billing 
URV directly. But I can see the bills were paid shortly  after Mr L raised this with URV. 
So, this doesnt  change my thoughts about  the overall outcome of the case 
I accept the overall level of service was poor and impacted on Mr C. I understand he 
was becoming increasingly depressed and was anxious to get home. He felt isolated 
as there  were periods of time when he was on his own and unable  to communicate 
because he didnt  speak  the language. But the medical evidence indicates that it is 
most likely the earliest he could have been  repatriated was in early October. So, 
whilst the service  was poor,  I think the award of £750 - which  falls within  the 
substantial category for our service - fairly  reflects the trouble and upset  caused  to 
Mr C. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint as I think the suggested settlement is fair. Under  the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 March 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3136226