K820x#14Complaint
Ms N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt tell her that her property  was worth 
less than she thought. 
Background
Ms N approached HSBC  as she was going through a divorce  and wanted  to buy her 
ex-husband out of a property they jointly owned. She says that she told HSBCs adviser that 
shed obtained  an independent valuation of the property as part of the divorce negotiations, 
and that its value had been  estimated at £97,000.
HSBCs adviser  suggested that Ms N borrow enough to redeem the existing mortgage,  plus 
a further £20,000 to buy out her ex-husbands share of the home.  These amounts were 
calculated based  on the estimated value of £97,000 given by Ms N. 
Ms N says HSBC then carried out its own valuation, and told her categorically  that it was 
fine. But when  she later came to sell the property, she discovered that the surveyor HSBC  
appointed had only valued the property at £90,000.
Ms N complained to HSBC. She felt she could have obtained a more favourable divorce  
settlement if shed known  the property was worth  less than she thought. She also found out 
her ex-husband had put his divorce settlement funds towards a new property,  with help from 
the same  adviser.  She felt this was a conflict of interest. 
HSBC didnt uphold  Ms Ns complaint. It said the mortgage valuation  report was for its 
information only, and her ex-husbands application was assessed on its own merit. It said it 
was up to Ms Ns solicitor to have  advised her on the divorce  settlement negotiations. 
Our investigator didnt  feel HSBC  was obliged to share the details of the mortgage valuation 
report with Ms N, as it was carried out for its purposes not hers.  He felt Ms N had borrowed 
the amount she needed. And he didnt  think it was inappropriate that the same  adviser later 
helped her ex-husband. 
Ms N remained unhappy.  She continued to think her divorce settlement negotiations had 
been prejudiced by HSBCs actions. I therefore  need to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and although I recognise 
this will be disappointing for Ms N, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
In its Fact Find, HSBC recorded  that one of Ms Ns objectives was to buy out her 
ex-husbands share of the home. It recorded  that the estimated value of the property was 
£97,000. This ties in with what Ms N has said, so I accept that this amount came from the 
independent valuation shed obtained for the divorce  proceedings. 
Ref: DRN35927012Nevertheless, Ms N feels HSBC should have told her that the surveyor  it appointed thought 
the property was worth £7,000 less than that. But the mortgage valuation  report was carried 
out for the sole purpose of helping  HSBC make a responsible lending decision,  namely  to 
check the property  provided adequate security for the amount Ms N wanted to borrow. A 
valuation of £90,000 supported that. 
As the report served its purpose  for HSBCs lending decision, I dont think there  was 
anything it needed  to make Ms N aware  of.  And I dont think HSBC needed to share the 
report with Ms N for her use in the divorce  proceedings, as that wasnt  what it was intended 
for. The divorce proceedings were separate  from the mortgage application, and Ms N had 
appointed a solicitor to protect her interests in the negotiations with her ex-husband.  
In any event, it seems Ms N had already agreed the value of the property with her 
ex-husband. This was based on an independent  valuation carried out specifically for the 
purposes of the divorce proceedings, on the advice  of Ms Ns solicitor.  Its that valuation  that 
the courts would have relied on, not a lenders valuation. So even if HSBC  had shared the 
report with Ms N as a courtesy, its likely  she would  have  ended up in the same situation, as 
she still would have  needed to borrow the same amount. 
Ms N has said the same  adviser  later helped her ex-husband  to purchase a new property 
with his share of the divorce  settlement. But by that point Ms Ns mortgage had already been 
finalised. I cant see that there was a conflict of interest, because both Ms N and her 
ex-husband were  able to get what they needed.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint against  
HSBC UK Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.  
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3592701