K820x#14Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Advanced  Payment Solutions Limited (trading  as Cashplus) wont  
refund three transactions he says he didnt make.
Background
Mr C says his bag was stolen from a beach whilst  he was on holiday on 3 March 2016. 
Amongst the items in the bag was a prepaid card (the card).  The card was used later the 
same day in several transactions.
Below are the details  of those transactions, according to Advanced Payment  Solutions  
records:
Time of 
transactionType of 
transactionAmount 
of transactionPersonal  
Identification 
Number (PIN) 
entered 
correctly?Transaction approved?
17:03 cash  withdrawal £119.23 no no  incorrect PIN was 
entered
17:04 cash  withdrawal £119.23 no no  incorrect PIN was 
entered
17:20 cash  withdrawal £161.31 yes yes
17:21 cash  withdrawal £240.96 yes yes
17:26 cash  withdrawal £245.17 yes no  maximum daily 
cash withdrawal  limit 
exceeded
17:26 cash  withdrawal £122.58 yes no  maximum daily 
cash withdrawal  limit 
exceeded
17:30 card payment 
for 
goods/services£45.85 yes yes
17:42 card payment 
for 
goods/services£89.08 yes no  the card had been 
cancelled
There were no further attempts to use the card after 17:42.
Mr C reported the theft of the card to Advanced Payment  Solutions at around 17:30  on the 
day it was taken, and to the police the next day.
In considering Mr Cs case,  Advanced Payment Solutions noted that the three  approved 
transactions (the disputed transactions)  were  made using the card and by entering the 
correct PIN. And it concluded that Mr C was either  responsible for making the disputed 
transactions, or he wrote his PIN down and kept it with the card  which it said is gross  
negligence. So it didnt agree to refund the disputed transactions.
Ref: DRN37645202Mr C disagreed. He said he didnt have his PIN written down, and he made  the following 
points:
two attempts to withdraw cash were  declined because the incorrect PIN was entered 
 Mr C said this shows that the thief didnt have the PIN
the thief travelled to another part of the island he was staying on to use the card  
Mr C said this is unusual behaviour for someone who had knowledge of the PIN; he 
thought that fraudsters  had been  able to bypass the PIN requirement
Mr C also told us that:
he didnt have any other cards in his bag on the day it was stolen
he doesnt have  any other cards  with the same  PIN
his PIN was the original, random number Advanced Payment Solutions gave him
the card was marketed as a credit card, with the logo of a credit card scheme on it, 
but it isnt really and doesnt come with the same protection  Mr C said he wouldnt 
have taken the card out if hed have known  that
Our adjudicator said the way the card was used fit with how she thought a fraudster may use 
a stolen card. But she said that the disputed transactions were carried  out using the chip in 
the card and the correct PIN, and she couldnt see how a fraudster could have got the PIN 
without Mr C knowing. So she didnt ask Advanced Payment  Solutions to refund the disputed 
transactions.
Mr C asked us to look at his case again,  so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I provisionally decided  not to uphold  this complaint in July 2019,  and invited  Mr C and 
Advanced Payment Solutions  to send me any further information  they wanted  me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive set out my provisional findings below.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I consider the following  to be the relevant regulations and terms and conditions of the card, 
and Ive taken  them into account in deciding this case.
Relevant considerations
Advanced Payment Solutions  is a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated firm. So the 
FCAs overarching Principles for Businesses  apply, including the requirement to treat 
customers fairly (Principle 6).
Ref: DRN37645203The disputed transactions were made  in March  2016, so the Payment  Services Regulations 
2009 (PSRs 2009)  are of particular relevance to my decision. Amongst other things, the 
PSRs 2009 say:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment  transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer  has given its consent to
(a)the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment  service  user in relation to payment  instruments
57.(1) A payment  service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the Terms and Conditions governing 
its issue and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the 
payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security  features safe.
Evidence on authentication and execution of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service  user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been  correctly executed, it is for the 
payment service provider  to prove that a payment transaction was authenticated, 
accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and not 
affected by a technical breakdown  or some other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including  its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument  recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove either  that
(a)the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b)the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Ref: DRN37645204Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment  transactions
61. Subject to regulations 59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a)refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer; and
(b)where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state it would have 
been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
62.(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised  payment transactions arising
(a)from the use of a lost or stolen  payment  instrument; or
(b)where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security  features of the payment 
instrument safe,  from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a)has acted fraudulently; or
(b)has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
Consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must be given in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment  service 
provider. The Payment Services Directive itself (which the PSRs 2009  implement) says In 
the absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be 
unauthorised.
Gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis, taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in the PSRs 2009 or in the Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances. The evidence  and 
degree of alleged negligence should generally  be evaluated according to national law. 
However, while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care,  gross 
negligence should mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a 
significant degree of carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise 
a payment transaction beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  
detectable by third parties
Ref: DRN37645205Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting  out its role under the Payment  Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
we interpret gross negligence to be a higher standard than the standard of 
negligence under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant 
degree of carelessness.
Although neither of these  is directly relevant to this case, they are of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because  
they inform the meaning of a concept that has been in place for some time (in the Banking 
Code).
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The  Ardent)  [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed according to purely English principles of construction,  Gross  
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligenceas a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross negligence  seems  to me capable  of 
embracing not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks involved,  but 
also serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care.  But as I have 
described above, gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes  significantly  beyond 
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider  whether  Mr C fell so far below  the standard 
expected of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say he failed with gross  negligence 
to keep his personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions of 
the card.
Intent
Intent is not defined in the PSRs 2009 nor in the Payment Services  Directive. Ive therefore  
applied the natural meaning of intent - that being: something you want  and plan to do, a 
deliberate act.
This is also consistent with the FCAs 2013  guidance on the PSRs  2009, which gives a 
helpful indication  of the regulators view of what it means, and refers to:
8.108 a customer  who deliberately failed to comply with their obligations.
8.116 a customer  who has intentionally not  complied with their obligations...the 
burden of proof  lies with the payment service provider  the rejection must  be 
supported by sufficient evidence to prove that the customer  is guilty of  intentional 
breach.
The guidance also gives  an indication of the regulators view of whats  meant by taking all 
reasonable steps to keep  a payment instruments personalised security features safe at 
Regulation 57(2) of the PSRs 2009:
8.97 says What constitutes reasonable steps will depend  on the circumstances, 
but payment service  providers must say what steps they expect  customers  to take 
in their pre-contract  disclosure information.
Ref: DRN37645206I think what the PSRs  2009  mean is that when considering whether a payment service  user 
failed to comply with their obligations with intent,  the test I need to consider is whether they 
appreciated that by taking the actions  or inactions  they did, they would be failing to meet 
these obligations.
The terms and conditions  of the card broadly reflect the provisions in the PSRs  2009. They 
say:
4.2     Keep  your PIN safe,  by memorising it, never disclosing it to anyone, or by letting 
anyone see you enter it. We recommend you do not write it down. If you do write your PIN 
down or disclose it to any other individual, you may be held liable for any fraudulent  
transactions made using your card.
5.1     If your Card  is lost, stolen  or you suspect  it being used in an unauthorised manner 
call us immediately
6.      reporting transaction  disputes 
6.3      Unless  we have reason to suspect fraud, or deliberate or grossly negligent 
behaviour on your part we will refund the amount of the transaction.
13.4   You will be responsible for i) any unauthorised activity if you act fraudulently  or 
without reasonable care
Key questions
With the above relevant considerations in mind, I thought there were two key questions  for 
me to decide  when  thinking about whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Did Mr C authorise the disputed transactions?
2.If he didnt, can Advanced Payment Solutions  demonstrate that Mr C failed  with 
intent or gross negligence  to comply with the terms and conditions of the card,  or the 
obligations set out in regulation 57 of the PSRs 2009?
Did Mr C authorise the disputed transactions?
The disputed transactions can only be regarded as authorised by Mr C if he made them  
himself or gave his consent to the execution of them  that is, if he gave his permission for 
them to be carried out. And on balance, I wasnt satisfied that he did.
Mr C has been consistent in his story about what happened on the day of the disputed 
transactions. Hes said he was asleep  on a beach,  and when he woke  up, his bag with the 
card inside was gone  and he quickly reported the theft.
The evidence Ive seen  fits with this version  of events. The disputed  transactions, and the 
failed attempts to use the card, happened  over a short space  of time  between  17:03 and 
17:42 on 3 March 2016. Advanced Payment  Solutions was made aware  that the card had 
been stolen at around 17:30, and the card was cancelled.
Ref: DRN37645207The card was used  seven times in 27 minutes between 17:03 and 17:30.  In that time, there 
were two incorrect PIN entries, two cash withdrawals, two declined  cash  withdrawals 
because the daily limit had been  exceeded  and a card payment. This is the type of usage Id 
expect to see on a stolen card.
There was one further attempt to use the card at 17:42, and this suggests to me that 
whoever had the card wasnt aware  that it had been cancelled  at that time.
I understand that Mr C reported the theft of his bag containing the card to the police the day 
after it happened.
Overall, I thought Mr Cs story  was plausible, and I found him persuasive. I believed  that the 
card was stolen and a fraudster carried  out the disputed transactions. I didnt  think  Mr C 
gave his consent for the money to debit his account.
So, my starting point was that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr C to be held liable  for 
the disputed transactions  which I thought were more likely than not to have been 
unauthorised  unless he failed with intent or gross negligence  to comply with the terms and 
conditions of the card, or the obligations set out in the PSRs 2009.
Mr C has said the card was marketed as a credit card, with the logo of a credit  card scheme 
on it, but it isnt really and doesnt come with the same protection  he says he wouldnt have 
taken the card out if hed have known that. I thought hed raised  this argument because the 
law wouldnt  require me to go on to consider intent or gross  negligence  if the disputed  
transactions had been made  on a credit card.
But the card wasnt  a credit card, and I couldnt  see why Mr C would reasonably have  
believed that it was. I looked at the information Mr C wouldve seen and been given when he 
applied for the card,  and there was no suggestion of it being  a credit facility.  And the card 
doesnt operate like a credit facility  its a prepaid card that Mr C loaded cleared funds onto, 
to be used at a later date.
So I went on to consider intent and gross  negligence.
Can Advanced Payment Solutions demonstrate  that Mr C failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply  with the terms and conditions of the card, or the obligations  set out in 
regulation 57 of the PSRs 2009?
Under the PSRs  2009, Mr C had an obligation to take all reasonable steps to keep the 
cards personalised  security features safe.  The terms and conditions of the card require Mr C 
to keep the PIN safe, and they recommend that it isnt written down. They  say that if the PIN 
is written down, Mr C may be held liable for any fraudulent transactions made using the card.
It was clear to me that the person  who stole the card also knew the PIN. Mr C has suggested 
that the fraudster  used  the card on another part of the island he was staying on so they 
could bypass the PIN requirement. Although I dont know why the thief chose to use the card 
in the area they did, I was satisfied that the PIN requirement was not bypassed   the 
evidence Ive seen  shows that the disputed transactions were all carried out using the chip in 
the card and the correct PIN.
Ref: DRN37645208I didnt think the fraudster had an opportunity to observe  Mr C entering the PIN because  he 
didnt use the card on his holiday. And Mr Cs told us that he doesnt use the same PIN for 
any of his other cards, so the fraudster couldnt have  observed him entering the PIN whilst 
using another  card either.
Mr Cs said that the PIN was the same, random number that Advanced Payment  Solutions  
gave him with the card. So I didnt  think it was likely that the fraudster could  have worked out 
what it was using other information they knew about  him.
In the absence of any other explanation, I thought  it was most likely  that Mr C kept a record  
of his PIN with the card, and thats how the fraudster came  to know it.
So I didnt think Mr C complied with the terms and conditions of the card,  or the obligations 
set out in regulation 57 of the PSRs 2009.  And I needed to determine whether, in keeping a 
record of his PIN with the card, he was grossly negligent.
As I set out earlier, negligence  is often referred  to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. 
And I think it is fair to say that gross  negligence involves a degree  of negligence that is 
higher than ordinary negligence. I have to consider whether  Mr C fell so far below the 
standard expected of a reasonable person that it would  be fair to say he failed with gross 
negligence to keep  his personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of the card. And on balance,  I thought  he did.
Recital 72 of the second Payment Services Directive  says that gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Mr C hasnt told us in what  format  the PIN was recorded, or where it was kept in relation to 
the card. So I can only go on the evidence before me. Its possible that he took some  steps  
to disguise the PIN, and thats why it was incorrectly entered twice before it was entered  
correctly. But as the fraudster was able to enter the correct PIN on only the third attempt, 
I was satisfied that it must have been  kept close to the card,  in an easily detectable  format.
The terms and conditions  of the card recommend that the PIN isnt written  down. And I think 
a lot of people would consider that they were taking  an obvious risk in keeping  a record of 
their PIN with their card (even in a loosely disguised format)  in a public place. So I was 
persuaded that Mr C breached the terms and conditions of the card, and fell significantly 
below the standard expected of a reasonable person in this case. And I thought  that he was 
grossly negligent  in the circumstances.
Im not aware of any reason  why this might not be a fair and reasonable outcome  such  as 
a vulnerability that meant Mr C needed  to keep  a written record of the PIN.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr C replied to say that he understood how Id reached my provisional  decision. And 
Advanced Payment Solutions  let me know  that it accepted my findings.
Neither party provided any further information for me to consider.
Ref: DRN37645209My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also reconsidered what  the 
relevant considerations are here, and remain of the view that the considerations I set out in 
my provisional decision are the relevant  ones.
As neither Mr C nor Advanced Payment  Solutions have provided any new information for me 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3764520