K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Miss W have  complained about  Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim under their home  insurance  policy after an escape of water caused damage.
background 
In April 2018, Mr M and Miss W took out the policy  to protect  a house which  they had just 
bought from Mr Ms father.
About a month  or two later,  Mr M and Miss W say they noticed a leak coming through  the 
kitchen ceiling which was situated immediately below a wet room. Mr M and Miss W decided 
to take out the wet room  and install a bath instead. They also put down thin board  and vinyl 
flooring in the bathroom. This was done  in June/July 2018.
In December 2018, Mr M and Miss W decided  to improve the flooring in the bathroom. 
However, their contractor found that the sub-floorboards were damaged by water and 
needed to be replaced. Mr M and Miss W therefore made a claim under their policy.
Ageas arranged for its surveyor to visit the property.  The surveyor  noted the damaged sub-
floorboards though he couldnt find evidence of any recent or ongoing  leak and couldnt 
determine if it had emanated  from a fixed installation or was due to a failure in the seal to the 
wall and floor tiles. However, he considered that the leak and the damage had been  ongoing  
before the policy started.  On this basis, Ageas declined the claim.
Mr M and Miss W were unhappy with Ageass  decision. They  referred their complaint to us. 
In the meantime, they also arranged for the floor to be replaced.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She noted  that Ageass  
surveyor had estimated that the leak had been  ongoing for perhaps one or two years. 
However, she was satisfied that Mr M and Miss W wouldnt have known about the leak at the 
time they took out the policy.  Because it wasnt possible to differentiate between the damage 
caused before and after the policy had been taken out, she considered that Ageas should 
accept the claim for all the damage.
Ageas didnt accept  the investigators findings. It considered that the full extent  of damage 
could not have occurred in the relatively  short  period between when the property was bought 
and when the leak became apparent. It said that if Mr M or Miss W had taken out a full 
survey before buying the property, the leak could have been  noted in the report. It said the 
damage which would have occurred after the policy  had started would simply have been 
cosmetic. It offered a cash settlement of £1,076 less the policy  excess, to cover  the cost of 
repairs for this.
Mr M and Miss W didnt  accept Ageass offer.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
I shall explain why.
Ref: DRN37790592Ageas surveyor confirmed that the property had suffered damage as a result of an insured 
peril, namely an escape of water.
Ageas nonetheless thinks it shouldnt have to provide  cover  because the leak was ongoing 
before the policy started.  However, Im satisfied  that Mr M and Miss W werent aware of the 
leak until at least a month or two later when it caused damage in the kitchen. I consider it is 
unreasonable for Ageas to seek to decline the claim  on the grounds that the leak was pre-
existing given that Mr M and Miss W were  unaware of this.
Ageas has suggested  that Mr M and Miss W should have undertaken a more  thorough  
survey before buying the property and that this would have made them  aware of the leak.  
However, there is no guarantee that such a survey would have identified the leak. I dont 
think it is reasonable for Ageas  to rely on this to decline the claim.
Ageas surveyor believes  the leak may have been ongoing for one or two years to have 
caused the damage in question. However, the surveyor doesnt deny that some of the 
damage will have been caused since the policy started. And, despite Ageass assertion that 
the more recent damage would only be cosmetic, I consider there  is no reasonable way of 
differentiating between the damage  caused  before the policy started and that caused  
subsequently. In these circumstances, I think the fair outcome is that Ageas  provides cover 
for the repair of all the damage.
Mr M and Miss W say that they have now arranged for all the necessary  repairs  to be done. 
I consider that, on production of relevant invoices,  Ageas should  reimburse  them the costs 
they have incurred, less the policys excess.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to accept the claim and reimburse Mr M and Miss W the relevant 
costs they have incurred in accordance with the policys remaining terms and conditions.  
Ageas Insurance Limited should add interest to this payment at the annual simple  rate of 
8%, calculated from the date Mr M and Miss W incurred the cost to the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M and Miss W how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr M and Miss W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3779059