K821x#15complaint
Mr K says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 40 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr K between  March 2017  
and June 2018. Mr K borrowed amounts ranging between  £50 and £500  to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments.  From what I can see, some  of Mr Ks loans are still outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ks complaint and thought the loans from loan four onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint was passed to me to make  a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr K could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr K could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN37024072This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Sunny asked Mr K for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out credit 
checks. Mr K said he earned £2,300 a month.  He said his disposable income  ranged 
between about  £870 and £1,500 a month.  
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr K provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr K was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Sunny to provide loans one 
to three. 
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four, the pattern of Mr Ks borrowing should have 
alerted Sunny that Mr K was having  trouble managing his money. Hed taken out four loans 
in five weeks and he had three  loans outstanding.  So I think  Sunny should  have realised  that 
Mr K would be unable  to sustainably repay loan four and any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr K, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
By loan six, Mr K had taken out six loans in four months. The amounts  he was borrowing 
stayed about the same for the rest of his borrowing from Sunny. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr K was having to borrow further  to cover the hole 
repaying his previous  loans were leaving in his finances and that Mr Ks indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 40 was taken 
out 15 months after Mr Ks first. Mr K had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Sunny over an extended  period.
I think that Mr K lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN37024073the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ks ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 40 and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 4 to 40, offset this against any capital 
still outstanding  and pay Mr K the remainder;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Ks credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 40 should be removed from Mr Ks credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint. I 
require Elevate Credit  International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr K compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3702407