K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say the Bank of Ireland (UK) PLC, trading as Bristol & West, mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. In order  to keep things consistent, Ill refer 
mainly to BOI.
background and summary to complaint
It seems  Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1992 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
However, we know virtually nothing about  the circumstances;  Mr and Mrs T cant tell us very 
much at all about the sale as they dont recall  ever having PPI with the mortgage. Nor do 
they have any records and all they can say is that their mortgage  was probably arranged  by 
a broker who came to their home. BOI hasnt  retained any paperwork either because it says 
the mortgage was redeemed in 2003.
Nevertheless, I see BOI does have  some very sparse data on its system relating  to the 
mortgage. In my view,  this would tend to suggest  PPI was taken out with the mortgage 
application and probably kept until the mortgage was redeemed. We know nothing  about 
who was covered, so Ive assumed both Mr and Mrs T were, as that what  they put on their 
complaint form. Neither party can say what the PPI cost, although we know that typically,  
these policies covered the holder(s)  against  accident, sickness, and unemployment and 
would have paid the mortgage  repayments for around 12 / 24 months in the event of a 
successful claim. 
At the time,  both Mr and Mrs T were  employed  but both said they werent entitled to any sick 
pay with their respective  jobs. I believe both to have been in good health although I note Mrs 
T suffered  from a medical issue in 1987. Although distressing at the time, I dont think  this 
can be considered  as a pre-existing medical condition  as far as the sale of the PPI policy (in 
1992) is concerned. This is because it pre-dated  the sale by 5 years and Ive been  sent 
nothing to suggest it would have required claiming  for on the PPI they subsequently bought.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
 
BOI failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ts representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOI should  have  told 
Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOI should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs T and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN37389432The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale probably took place in 1992 before  the General Insurance Standards  Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself probably concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN37389433The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOI at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOI 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOI gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BOI gave  Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and BOI, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
Ref: DRN37389434did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
BOI had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. However, I simply cant  say it did 
this. On the other hand, Mr and Mrs T didnt  complain about the sale until many years  after it 
took place, and indeed, many years after their mortgage had closed.  Its not unreasonable  
that BOI has therefore destroyed much of the records which potentially would have flushed 
these issues out. And at the very least, I do think Mr and Mrs T would have needed  to 
authorise the transfer of the PPI monthly premium  from their bank  account,  probably by way 
of a direct  debit mandate. 
Also, BOI doesnt dispute it probably  did sell the PPI. So, Im afraid  I find it unlikely that the 
third-party insurer wouldnt  have  sent Mr and Mrs T the policy  schedule  and the rules about  
managing the policy.
I accept Mr and Mrs T may not remember  all of this now, but taking everything into account, I 
think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs T knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take 
it out without undue pressure. Ive decided  this on the balance  of probabilities.
did BOI provide advice?
Again, I cant  be sure whether advice was or wasnt provided during this sale.  But given how 
little we know, it doesnt affect the outcome anyway Im afraid.  As a minimum, BOI had to 
give Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im persuaded its more  likely than not Mr and Mrs T were given a broad  description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if they 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. But to be fair to Mr and Mrs T, the evidence from the time of sale doesnt  
tell us whether  BOI gave sufficient  information about  the actual monthly benefit, the actual  
cost or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr and Mrs T agreed  to take out the policy.  
So, I cant say BOI gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ts. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN37389435-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BOI ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOIs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOI didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs T. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs T would have still taken out the policy, had BOI done everything  properly. 
Mr and Mrs T say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs T probably chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that 
its reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs T thought they were  getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs T have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs T were  given about  the cost was probably clear enough. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefits  or limitations and 
exclusions might  not have been  as clear as it should  have  been.   Although  I consider it more  
likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay something  for the policy,  I 
cant say BOI told them the exact  premium at the point they applied for the policy. Having 
said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs T would have been told the cost before the policy 
started and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with 
BOI at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BOI made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs T would get back  in 
return in the event Mr and Mrs T made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ref: DRN37389436Ts expectations about what  the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, its more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of 
a claim than they would  have  expected  as there  was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy may have  excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr and Mrs 
T knew  about or ought to have known  about  before  the start date of the policy;  
The policy may have  contained limitations  on claims relating to back  and mental 
health conditions  placing more  onerous  evidential requirements to support a claim on 
those grounds;
The policy may have  limited, and in some  situations, excluded  unemployment cover if 
Mr and Mrs T werent permanent employees;
The possible requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  Mr and 
Mrs T be unable  to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their 
experience, education  or training reasonable qualified them to do.
The policy might  well have protected payments for up to 12 or 24 months, rather than 
the remaining  term of the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs T pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs T were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs T wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and Mrs T 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions (as defined by the policy rules I think  would  
have been in place) and were in permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions might  possibly have been more 
onerous than Mr and Mrs T might reasonably have expected  we simply dont know. But its 
unlikely they would have expected to be able to make  a disability claim anyway without 
having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while  policy limitations  might  
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs T from 
taking out the policy,  they,  in their circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs T had known they could only possibly claim for disability if they were unable to 
do both their job and any similar gainful  occupation  which in the insurers  view they might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs T were  unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN37389437BOI may not have told Mr and Mrs T that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month or possibly a 24-month period. This may have differed from what they expected and 
might have hoped for  but they had limited other means to fall back  on. Im not sure if this 
was a limitation in their policy  but Ive considered it anyway.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 or 24 monthly  mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs T be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. 
Having considered the lack of evidence in this case, I consider it more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs T would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently  close to what its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr and Mrs T were made  redundant, or unable  to work through accident or 
disability. Ive considered everything theyve also said about other means they had at the 
time. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs T would have 
taken out the policy  in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr 
and Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN37389438That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOI should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think BOI misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BOIs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BOI failed to act fairly 
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BOI gave Mr and Mrs T, in the way it did, was insufficient 
to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1992  when  
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find BOI negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BOI had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3738943