K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) mis-sold them  two mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
In 1993 Mr and Mrs C took out a joint mortgage  with BOI. At the same time they were sold 
two PPI policies,  one to cover Mr C and a separate policy to cover  Mrs C. The policies 
provided cover against not being able to work  due to an accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. Mr Cs policy cost £10.12 per month and couldve paid a monthly benefit of 
£168. Mrs Cs policy cost £10.11 per month  and gave the same level of cover.
In 2003 Mrs Cs policy was cancelled and around  the same  time Mr Cs policy  was altered  to 
increase the benefit to £337.17 per month and the premium rose to £20.23.                         
My understanding is that Mr C continued  to pay the premiums until at least 2012.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld  because at the time of 
the sale Mr C had a medical condition that would not have been covered by the policy.      
The adjudicator thought  this had not been made  clear to Mr and Mrs C and that they would 
not have bought the policy if it had been.
BOI disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed  to me.
In May 2019  I issued  my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties  to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, my 
main reasons were:
Mr C did not experience symptoms of his medical condition  until 1998  which  was five 
years after the sale of the policies so would not have influenced his decision to buy 
his policy.
Mr and Mrs C paid the premiums  on both policies for ten years  until 2003. At that 
point Mrs Cs policy was cancelled and Mr Cs policy was amended. Mr Cs policy 
was then paid for a further nine years. I thought that if Mr and Mrs C only took the 
policies out to obtain the mortgage  I would  expect them to have reviewed this 
decision at an early  stage once the mortgage had completed. But they continued  to 
pay for PPI cover  for 19 years after the mortgage was approved.
Taking everything into account  I thought  it most likely BOI made Mr and Mrs C aware  
the policies were optional and they chose to take them out.
Its possible the information BOI gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. 
Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Both                 
Ref: DRN38873162Mr and Mrs C were working and were eligible for the cover. So they would have been 
able to make  a claim if they needed  to.
Mr C told us his employer would  not have paid him any sick pay if he became too 
unwell to work. Mrs C has said she cant recall the sick pay benefits provided by her 
employer. But the PPI policies sold to them could have paid a monthly benefit on top 
of any sick pay and for up to 12 months  if either became unwell.  
The policies could  also have paid a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months  if either       
Mr or Mrs C lost their job.
So the policies  would  have been  useful  for Mr and Mrs C if something  went wrong.       
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
I also thought  about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI policies  and 
whether BOI treated  them unfairly.  BOI has told us that the commission  for              
Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what they paid for each premium.  Weve 
looked at how BOI has been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks  
like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell them about  the commission  so I dont 
think BOI treated  them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs C back  
any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
Both parties  have now replied to my provisional findings.
BOI has told us it had nothing further  to add.
Mr and Mrs C have said they disagreed with my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr and Mrs C have restated that that they were  led to believe  they had to return the PPI 
application forms that were sent with the mortgage offer. I have thought carefully about this 
but I must  take into account that they continued  to pay for both policies  for many years after 
the mortgage completed. And in 2003 when  Mrs Cs policy was cancelled  it would have  been  
clear that Mr and Mrs C could cancel the policies without  affecting the mortgage. Yet Mr Cs 
policy continued for a further nine years.  
Ive carefully read Mr and Mrs Cs responses to my provisional findings but these  points 
have not persuaded me to alter my findings.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this final decision,  and in my provisional findings I dont uphold    
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and I make no award  against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
Ref: DRN38873163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) mis-sold them mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies.
Ref: DRN38873164background
In 1993 Mr and Mrs C took out a joint mortgage with BOI. At the same time they were sold two PPI 
policies, one to cover Mr C and a separate policy to cover  Mrs C. The policies  provided cover against 
not being  able to work due to an accident,  sickness or involuntary  unemployment. Mr Cs policy cost 
£10.12 per month and couldve paid a monthly benefit of £168. Mrs Cs policy  cost £10.11 per month 
and gave the same level of cover.
In 2003 Mrs Cs policy  was cancelled and around the same time Mr Cs policy was altered  to increase 
the benefit  to £337.17 per month and the premium rose to £20.23.                          
My understanding is that Mr C continued to pay the premiums until at least  2012.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld  because at the time of the sale 
Mr C had a medical  condition that would  not have been covered  by the policy.      The adjudicator 
thought this had not been made clear to Mr and Mrs C and that they would  not have bought the policy 
if it had been.
BOI disagreed  with the adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so I am not intending to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
BOI hasnt been able to send us the paperwork from the time and has limited information  about  where 
and how the PPI was sold. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone 
by since  the sale took place. But where there is limited information,      I will make my decision based 
on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what   both 
parties have  told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Mr and Mrs C have said they were bought the PPI policies by completing a leaflet that was sent to 
them with the mortgage  application form. They  say BOI indicated that unless they took out PPI the 
mortgage may be declined.
Ive thought about this but Mr and Mrs C have not given details of how BOI led them  to believe that 
the PPI would  assist the mortgage application. And BOI have told us that whether they took out PPI or 
not wouldnt have affected the decision to grant a mortgage.
I have to take into account that Mr and Mrs C paid the premiums on both policies for ten years until 
2003. At that point Mrs Cs policy was cancelled and Mr Cs policy was amended. Mr Cs policy  was 
then paid for a further nine years.
If Mr and Mrs C only took the policies out to obtain the mortgage I would expect  them to have 
reviewed this decision  at an early stage once  the mortgage had completed,  but Ive seen no evidence  
that they did so. And they continued to pay for PPI cover for 19 years after the mortgage was 
approved.
Taking all this into account I think its most likely BOI made Mr and Mrs C aware  the policies were 
optional and they chose  to take them out. Although  I can understand how they may have forgotten  
this after so many years.
It seems likely Mr and Mrs C bought the PPI by completing a leaflet  sent to them  with the mortgage 
application. So I dont  think  BOI gave  them  a personal recommendation to buy the policies.  This 
Ref: DRN38873165means BOI didnt have to make sure the policies  were right for them. But BOI still had to give Mr and 
Mrs C clear information  so they could  decide for themselves if the cover met their needs and 
circumstances.
Its possible the information BOI gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like they were  affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Both Mr and Mrs C were working and were eligible 
for the cover. So they would  have  been able to make a claim if they needed to.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld as Mr C had a medical  condition that would  
not have been covered  by his policy. But Mr and Mrs C have  since confirmed that Mr C did not show 
symptoms of the condition until 1998 which was five years after the sale.  So in 1993 I dont think Mr C 
would be put off buying  the policy if he was told it excluded   pre-existing medical conditions as this 
would not have affected him.
Mr C has told us his employer would not have paid him any sick pay if he became too unwell to work. 
Mrs C has said she cant recall the sick pay benefits provided  by her employer.  But the PPI policies  
sold to them could have  paid a monthly benefit on top of any sick pay and for up to 12 months  if either 
became unwell.  
The policies could also have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if either Mr or Mrs C lost their 
job.
So the policies  would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if something went wrong.  It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said - including what they told us about  attempting 
to make a claim which  was declined. They  say Mr C tried to make a claim for unemployment  in 2001 
but could not claim as there was a 12 week waiting period. I checked the terms and conditions of the 
policy but these state the policy only had a 30 day waiting  period. And the policy insurer has told us it 
holds no record of any attempted claim. 
In any event I have only looked at the sale of the policies in this decision. And from what Ive seen I 
dont think the policies were  mis-sold in 1993. If Mr C feels he had a valid claim  turned down  in 2001 
he can contact the policy insurer as he may be able to make a backdated claim.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI policies  and whether BOI 
treated them unfairly. 
BOI has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what  they paid for 
each premium. Weve  looked  at how BOI has been working this out and based on what  weve seen it 
looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the 
case, I dont think it needed to tell them about  the commission  so I dont think BOI treated them  
unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for 
the PPI. 
Ref: DRN38873166my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and Im not intending to make any award against  
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3887316