K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  they were mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs E had an existing mortgage on part interest only and part repayment terms. 
Acting on L&Gs advice,  they converted this to a mortgage on repayment terms, moving 
lender and consolidating other debt in the process.
Mr and Mrs E are now represented by a claims management company  (CMC). Acting on 
their behalf,  the CMC  now says this was unsuitable  advice. It says they should have been 
advised to remain  with their existing lender to avoid the fees associated with moving. It says 
the fees the broker charged were excessive  and unfair. And it says there was no need  to 
consolidate their unsecured debt, which made  it more expensive  overall.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs E asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable  for Mr and Mrs E to want to make changes to their mortgage. 
According to the fact find, they had recently discovered that part of the mortgage  was on 
interest only terms and they didnt  have a means  of repaying the capital at the end of the 
term. So they needed to make alternative arrangements   switching the whole  of the 
mortgage to repayment terms. Everyone accepts that this was a sensible thing to do.
The CMC says that the broker  should have recommended that they use their existing lender 
to do this, because  doing so would  have saved the fees they were  charged.  But I dont think 
its right about that. Whichever firm the broker recommended  they use, it would still have 
charged for its advice.  And  for reasons Ill explain shortly  it was suitable to consolidate 
their debt, meaning their balance would have increased. So they would have still paid fees to 
the lender too. I dont think it would have  involved  significantly less fees to remain with the 
existing lender. 
I think the debt consolidation was suitable  too. While based on their existing mortgage 
Mr and Mrs E werent in any financial difficulty,  the fact find records they did want  to reduce 
their outgoings if possible.  They had a secured  loan,  two car loans and a credit card. They  
were paying  more each month on their unsecured debt than to their old mortgage. 
Re-mortgaging from part interest only to wholly  capital repayment would have entailed  a 
substantial increase in the monthly  payments  so without consolidating their outgoings 
would have gone up. Consolidating meant  they could convert their mortgage and still reduce 
their outgoings. 
I dont agree with the CMC that consolidating made  the debts significantly more expensive.  
The mortgage they took was for 13 years  at an initial fixed  rate below 6%. They  consolidated 
a secured loan at 20% and car loans at 15%.  While the terms were  shorter,  the interest rates  
were much higher. I dont think there  was a significant additional cost through  consolidation 
Ref: DRN31820512 and, in my view, what cost there  was, was outweighed by the benefits  of reducing 
outgoings to make it easier to convert the whole mortgage to repayment.
Ive noted what  the CMC  says about  the fees the broker charged. But they were clearly 
explained to Mr and Mrs E, they understood what they would be paying, and they received 
the service they paid for. Theres  no obligation  for broker  fees to be below a certain level,  or 
described in a particular way, and I dont think the overall amount Mr and Mrs E paid was so 
excessive to amount  to unfairness. I note L&G has now offered to refund commission the 
broker received from the solicitor, together with £100 compensation. I think thats a fair offer 
in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I think Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited has made a fair 
and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. Once  its paid that, I dont require it to take any 
further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3182051