K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr F says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Mr F applied for a credit card online. At the same time he also took out PPI designed 
to protect  his card payments in the event he couldnt  work because of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. The policy cost 79 pence for every £100 Mr F owed on the card and the 
benefit was 5% of the card balance (payable for six months and if the claim  continued into 
the seventh month the final payment cleared the remaining outstanding balance.)
At the time Mr F says he was entitled to 12 months  full sick pay followed  by 12 months half 
pay. He also said he had other  means at his disposal.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said Mr F chose to take out PPI on his 
application and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him given his 
circumstances at the time.
The adjudicator also said that AMEX didnt  have to pay back any of the commission  Mr F 
paid for the policy because  the commission level was below 50% of each PPI premium paid.
Mr F disagrees the policy wasnt mis-sold, so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think AMEX  made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out.
AMEX has provided a screenshot of the page  it says Mr F would have seen during his 
credit card application. And this shows that a consumer was presented with - Yes  and 
No options  for PPI under the question: Would you like to enrol in the AMEX Lifestyle 
Repayment Protection Plan?
AMEX has also provided records capturing  the information Mr F input during his 
application. And against PPI it is marked Y. So on the basis of the above and in the 
absence of any evidence  to persuade me something different happened in Mr Fs case, I 
think Mr F was presented with a screen  the same as or very similar to the one AMEX has 
provided and that Mr F selected the Yes  option to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN30531342I think AMEX  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr F  this was an internet application with no 
involvement with a member of AMEX staff - so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr F got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  for example its not clear from the evidence  presented  that the 
significant exclusions and limitations were clearly brought to Mr Fs attention  or that the 
full details about the cost was disclosed.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  
like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said - including what  he has said about the PPI being 
unnecessary because of the amount and length  of sick pay he had and other means at his 
disposal. But these  points dont change my decision.
As I said above Mr F chose  to take out PPI. And he did so knowing what sick pay and other 
means he had available to him at the time.  Im mindful that the PPI was described on the 
internet application such  that I think he wouldve been given a broad understanding of what 
the policy did  that is, it would  meet his card payments in the event he couldnt because he 
wasnt working. With this and the other  information he was given, I dont think the policy 
operated significantly  differently  from how Mr F expected it to.
In fact it may have  been slightly better  than he expected  in this case  while  the policy only 
met the minimum card payment of 5% for up to six months upon a successful claim, if Mr F 
continued to be unable to work or was still unemployed in the seventh  month,  a final 
payment would have  been made  to clear the remaining  outstanding balance.  And this is 
perhaps the key difference between  this policy and other similar  policies at the time.
So overall and in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont  think  Mr F has lost out by 
having PPI  I think hed have still taken  it out if AMEX had done anything  more.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr F paid on his PPI  and whether AMEX treated 
him unfairly.  
Amex has told us that the commission for Mr Fs PPI was less than half of what he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how AMEX  has been working this out and based on what  
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Fs commission  was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
AMEX treated him unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr F back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN30531343my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint and I make  
no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019..
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3053134