K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Egg  Banking Plc at the time of the 
sale) mis-sold him a monthly premium  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr E applied for a credit card online in 2002. He was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this credit card.
The PPI cost 74p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve covered 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mr E was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Es complaint should  be upheld. Mr E didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint.
Ive looked at the policy document  and am satisfied  Mr E was eligible for the policy  at the 
time of the sale.
Egg had to make it clear to Mr E that the policy  was optional  and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to the account. Mr E says that he didnt know he had PPI on the account 
and that he didnt ask for it.
I can see from the information provided that Egg wouldve given Mr E two equally clear 
choices during the online process as to whether  to take or refuse  PPI. The application 
couldnt proceed until one of the options  had been  chosen.  I think  its more  likely that Mr E 
selected PPI and thats how it came  to be applied to the account.  The alternative  would be 
that Mr E refused PPI but somehow it still got added to the account  I havent seen any 
evidence for me to conclude that this is what happened. 
So I think Egg made it clear to Mr E that the policy was optional  and that it was applied to his 
account because  he chose to take it out, although  I appreciate why Mr E may now no longer 
remember this.
Given that the PPI was sold online,  I cant see that there was any involvement from a 
representative. This means  I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mr E - so they didnt  
have to check if the policy was right for him. 
Ref: DRN35581472But they still had to give Mr E clear  enough information so that he could decide for himself  
whether or not the policy was right for him. Its possible the information Egg gave him wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But I dont  think better  information wouldve put Mr E off taking  
the policy out. I say this because:
-Although Mr E has told us that he wouldve been entitled to at least  6 months  sick pay 
from his employer,  the PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Es sick pay and I 
think for a longer  period  of time.  It would also have paid out if he lost his job. 
-Mr E didnt seem  to have been affected by any of the main exclusions  and restrictions in 
the policy  which wouldve  made  it more difficult for him to make a successful claim 
under the policy. For example, those relating to certain  medical conditions  and working 
arrangements.
-The PPI was competitively priced  and I cant see that it was unaffordable  to him.
-Mr E couldve cancelled the policy at any time without incurring a financial penalty.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Egg mis-sold Mr E this PPI policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against  Canada Square Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3558147