K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Ainsley Financial Management Ltd mis-sold  them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out the policy at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2008.  
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover just Mr R for accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint and asked Ainsley to pay redress  to Mr and Mrs R in 
line with this services approach. Ainsley originally disagreed  with this as it was unhappy that 
the premiums had increased during  the life of the policy and didnt feel that it should be 
responsible for paying this additional amount.  However, more recently Ainsley has indicated  
that it would  be willing to make an in-line  offer, although it maintains that the policy was not 
mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Ainsley advised Mr and Mrs R to buy the policy.  Therefore, in recommending  it to them,  it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs.
Ive seen a copy  of the Mortgage Questionnaire that was completed at the time. Section 8 of 
the form is headed Protection and relates  to insurance. Mrs R has been identified  as having 
a pre-existing health problem. Therefore, in the section for existing policies  Mrs R is 
advised to keep a current policy as she would  be unable  to get new cover. In the section 
entitled Protection Needs the column for applicant 2 (Mrs R) is struck through.  So it seems  
that Ainsley appropriately identified that PPI wouldnt be suitable  for Mrs R.
Mr R also had a pre-existing medical condition. Ive seen evidence that Mr R had suffered  
from anxiety between prior to 2008..
I can see from the Mortgage Questionnaire that Mr R would have been asked a series of 
questions about  his health.  He was asked if he was currently  on medication, whether hed 
been admitted  to hospital as an inpatient or an outpatient and whether any of his immediate 
family had suffered from a list of physical health conditions. The yes/no boxes have been left 
blank in the answers section, which Im assuming means that Mr R answered no to them  
because I consider thered be additional notes on the form if Mr R had said yes to any of 
the questions.
Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application form in which Mr R had to answer  yes or no to 
certain declarations.  Mr R has answered  yes in response to the statements:
Ref: DRN33464632I/We/The Applicants are in good  health and have been so for at least  the last 6 months and 
are not aware  of any condition which is likely  to give rise to a claim. 
I/We/The Applicants are aware that any condition that they knew about  at the start date or 
have suffered from or received  treatment or advice  on in the 6 months before the start date 
which recurs within 12 months  of the start date will not be covered by this policy.
These questions were not enough to bring to light that Mr R had suffered from anxiety. The 
questions only established  that Mr R had not suffered with any health problems during the 
previous six months.
There was an onus  on Ainsley, not just to highlight the significant exclusions,  but to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of the policy  for Mr R. But there  is no evidence that 
Mr R was asked about having suffered from any wider health  conditions, including  mental 
health conditions.
Ainsley says it did enough  to advise Mr and Mrs R correctly. I agree that the sale in terms of 
the financial advice  seems to have been  appropriate, with steps  taken to meet  Mr and Mrs 
Rs needs in regard to the mortgage. And Mrs R has been correctly identified  as not being a 
suitable candidate for PPI. But ultimately Ainsley  didnt take sufficient steps to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for Mr R.
As well as excluding  pre-existing medical conditions that had been treated in the six months 
prior to inception, the policy  also excluded claims for: any mental  or nervous disorder 
including anxiety, depression, stress or stress related conditions unless investigated and 
diagnosed by a consultant, or emotional or psychiatric condition (unless it is due to organic 
mental disease of psychosis) post viral debility  and myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME).
Not only should  Ainsley have  taken  into account  this significant term when recommending  
the policy to Mr R, it should also have drawn  his attention to it. Ainsley says that Mr R was 
sent the policy schedule and policy summary by the insurer prior to the mortgage going life. 
But Mr R did not base  his decision  for taking out PPI on the policy summary. It was 
reasonable for him to rely on the recommendation and information he was given by Ainsley 
during the meeting. I do not consider the provision of written  information at a later time to be 
sufficient to highlight  this exclusion.  Whilst it is possible Ainsley verbally drew it to Mr and 
Mrs Rs attention, I am not persuaded that it did so.
On balance, I dont  think that Mr and Mrs R would have purchased  the policy if they had 
been fully aware  that Mr Rs pre-existing  medical  condition was unlikely to be covered. 
Thats because theyd  have realised that their need for the cover was reduced.  And if Ainsley  
had established  Mr Rs circumstances fully before recommending the policy, it seems 
unlikely it would have  concluded that the policy was suitable for him.
It follows that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
putting things right
Ainsley should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out PPI. 
So it should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Ref: DRN33464633Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Ainsley  can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs R.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Ainsley to take off tax from this interest. Ainsley  must  
give Mr and Mrs R a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and require Ainsley  Financial 
Management Ltd to pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3346463