K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that TSB Bank plc made  it difficult for him to repay an overdrawn 
balance left on his current account  when he switched to another bank.  Hes also complained 
that it wont remove adverse information about  the repayment its put on his credit file.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 6 June 2019. A copy  of this is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I invited both parties to let me have any further  
comments and evidence.
Mr L and TSB both accepted my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given the parties acceptance of my 
provisional decision, I dont intend  to depart from it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision my final decision is I uphold this complaint. 
I require TSB Bank plc to:
1Remove any adverse information its put on Mr Ls credit  file in connection  with the 
repayment of the overdrawn balance on his current  account; and
2Pay Mr L £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38056352Copy of provisional  decision
background
In 2017 Mr L switched a current account he held with TSB to another  bank. After the switch had been 
completed, TSB wrote to him saying  he had an outstanding overdrawn balance  of £29.10 on his 
account that he needed to repay. It gave him details  he needed  to use to transfer the money  from 
another account.
Mr L tried to transfer £29.10 to TSB using  another banks on-line banking  facility and the payment 
details he was given by TSB. But the payment was returned. Mr L says he tried to make the payment 
by other means  but TSB told him the only option was to pay by cheque. He says he doesnt have a 
cheque facility.
Mr L complained  to TSB that it wasnt  allowing  him to make the payment and was recording late 
payments on his credit file. It said he could  make the payment by cheque or by cash at a TSB branch. 
It said it hadnt made an error and wouldnt remove the late payment notifications  from his credit file.
Mr L wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred his complaint to this service.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L was able to pay £29.10 to clear his overdraft  at a TSB branch in April 2018. He says he had 
difficulty persuading  the branch staff to accept  the payment. He says hed previously tried to make the 
payment at another branch  and had been told he couldnt make a payment into a closed account.  
Hed also tried, unsuccessfully, to make the payment by card and by transfer from another account he 
has with TSB.
Ive seen the entries  on Mr Ls credit file relating to his TSB current  account. There  are late payments  
recorded from December 2017 to March  2018.
TSB says it wrote to Mr L to ask him to repay the overdraft  in January 2018. It hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of the actual  letter but its provided a template it says would have been used.  The 
template requests payment within 30 days so, if the letter was sent in January 2018, Mr L needed  to 
pay the outstanding balance by February 2018. He hadnt been asked to make a payment in 
December 2017 or January  2018 so I dont  think TSB should have put late payments on his credit file 
for those months.
Its clear to me that Mr L tried to make the payment  to TSB on time.  It isnt clear why the online 
payment didnt work. But TSB was aware of the potential problem.  In its response to Mr Ls complaint  
it said it gave Mr L correct  details for the payment but not all banks are allowing payments to be 
made to those details. It says it isnt responsible for other banks failure to make the payment. But it 
was aware the details  it was providing might not enable  the payment  to be made.
The amount Mr L needed  to pay to TSB was small  and he wasnt trying to avoid payment.  The 
payment has now been made in full. In all the circumstances,  I think  TSB should have been more 
sympathetic to Mr L. and it would have been fair and reasonable for it to remove the adverse 
information it had put on Mr Ls credit file.
Given the above,  I think  TSB should remove the adverse  information its put on Mr Ls credit file. I also 
think its caused Mr L unnecessary  trouble and upset  by recording the information on his credit file, 
some of which seems  to have been incorrect,  and by refusing to remove it. I think TSB should  pay 
Mr L £150  to compensate  him for this.
Ref: DRN38056353my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties, my provisional decision is I 
uphold this complaint. I require TSB Bank plc to:
3 Remove any adverse information its put on Mr Ls credit file in connection with the repayment of 
the overdrawn balance  on his current account; and
4 Pay Mr L £150.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3805635