K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society lent to him irresponsibly, in giving him a 
mortgage that ran into his retirement age and allowing him to borrow funds on an interest  
only basis.
background
Mr L took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2006.  The application proceeded on a non-
advised basis. He borrowed £13,999 on a repayment basis  over a term of 25 years. 
Mr L applied for a further advance the following year,  again  on a non-advised basis.  He 
borrowed an additional £24,299 on an interest only basis, over a term of 24 years  and 
5 months.
Mr L converted the mortgage to a full repayment basis in 2016.
Earlier this year, Mr L complained to Nationwide. Recent  media  coverage had given him 
cause for concern that part of his mortgage  had operated on an interest only basis  and that 
the mortgage term wasnt due to end until after his retirement. 
Nationwide didnt uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  It said it hadnt advised him to take out either 
mortgage and that it had given him clear  information  about  the term and repayment  method, 
which for the interest only loan was said to be the sale of his property. And it said the 
application met its criteria  for mortgages  into retirement, highlighting in particular that Mr L 
was already in receipt of a pension  income  at the time.
Mr L then referred his concerns to us. One of our investigators reviewed the matter but she 
didnt think Nationwide  had done anything wrong. Looking  at Mr Ls circumstances at the 
time, she didnt think Nationwide had acted irresponsibly  in granting the mortgages. And she 
thought it had clearly  explained the terms of both loans  to Mr L in the documentation it had 
provided.
Mr L didnt agree. He still thought it had been irresponsible  for Nationwide  to lend into his 
retirement with the equity  in his home as security. He said hed not asked for an interest only 
product and had never been given  a comparison of what the loan wouldve cost on 
repayment terms. And he didnt think that signed paperwork was a sufficient defence,  
particularly given the difficult circumstances he was enduring  at the time and of which 
Nationwide had been aware.
As Mr L didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and while I appreciate why Mr L will have had cause for concern in light of 
the recent media  coverage of these issues, I dont think  Nationwide  has done  anything 
wrong. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN33751242Neither lending  into a borrowers retirement  nor lending on an interest only basis is 
inherently wrong or inappropriate. Neither is prohibited under the current (or previous) rules 
and regulations that govern the mortgage  market.  Whether each is appropriate will depend 
on the individual borrowers circumstances. So Id expect Nationwide  to have reviewed 
Mr Ls personal and financial circumstances when deciding whether  and on what  terms  
to lend to him when  he applied in 2006  and 2007.
Both of Mr Ls applications proceeded on a non-advised basis. So Nationwide wasnt 
responsible for ensuring that the mortgage Mr L took out was suitable for his needs.  But in 
deciding whether to lend,  it needed  to satisfy itself that Mr L could afford to pay back  the 
money he was borrowing.
In this respect and looking firstly  at the mortgage  term, both loans were  due to run until Mr L 
reached age 70. The application form he signed for the original mortgage showed that in 
addition to a small employment  salary,  Mr L was in receipt of a pension (in the region of 
£3,200 per year).  Those figures  were confirmed during the second application too (albeit  he 
was then earning more  in a new job and the pension  income  had increased  slightly  to 
around £3,350). 
Nationwide says that given Mr Ls pension income,  it approved  the mortgage term running 
into his retirement. I think this was reasonable. The application paperwork shows that Mr L 
was already in receipt of pension income in the region of £280 a month. Bearing in mind 
what he would then be eligible to receive  under a state pension at retirement age, I can see 
why Nationwide  was satisfied that the monthly mortgage  payments (of around £200 a 
month) wouldve continued  to be affordable  for him.
Looking at the additional borrowing on an interest only basis, again this is what  Mr L 
specified he wanted within his application form.  I dont  think the fact that he had an existing 
repayment mortgage renders this wholly inappropriate  or ought  to have given Nationwide  
cause to question  him further. Borrowing on interest  only has its advantages  most notably  
that the monthly payments  are lower.
As the monthly payments  were only covering the interest, Id expect Nationwide to have 
checked on how Mr L intended to repay the capital balance. The application form suggests it 
did this  as the repayment method is stated as sale of main residence. Mr L doesnt  think 
it was appropriate  for Nationwide to lend on such terms. But that wasnt  uncommon and 
again, in and of itself its not inappropriate. 
In Mr Ls case, I dont think Nationwides decision was irresponsible in light of the very low 
proportion of the property value that he was borrowing. I know  Mr L doesnt  think its 
appropriate to have used his equity  as security  but I dont agree. The sale of a property 
was a recognised  repayment method at the time, and the level of equity will in turn have 
been a key factor in assessing the viability of such plans. Mr Ls property was recorded  as a 
three-bedroomed house worth £190,000. Under the interest only mortgage, he would need  
to repay  capital of £23,900 when the term ended.  So it seemed Mr L would have more than 
enough equity  left over to buy a new, slightly cheaper property when the time came.  Again 
thats not uncommon  people often downsize in retirement for a number of reasons.
So I dont  think Nationwide lent irresponsibly to Mr L. His circumstances as recorded at the 
time evidenced that hed be able to afford the mortgage payments into his retirement, and be 
able to repay the capital hed borrowed on interest only terms when the time came.
Ref: DRN33751243Id also expect Nationwide to have given Mr L clear  information about his mortgage so that 
he could make an informed decision as to whether it met his needs. In this respect,  Ive 
reviewed copies of both mortgage  offers. They clearly set out the length of the term, what  
the monthly payments would be and the repayment method. 
In respect of the interest  only borrowing, there is a clear statement of what  this entailed:  that 
the capital borrowed  would remain outstanding,  that Mr L would need to arrange a way to 
repay it and that hed told Nationwide he intended  to sell his home to do so. The content and 
presentation of this information was in line with the relevant  regulations. This is all Id 
reasonably expect it to have done. I know Mr L thinks Nationwide ought  to have given him 
an illustration of this loan on repayment terms  but it wasnt  required to do so as a matter  of 
course.
I note that Nationwide has also sent Mr L correspondence over the years, including  
mortgage statements  and letters about the borrowback facility that hes utilised, which have 
reiterated that part of the mortgage operated on an interest only basis.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ls comments,  including what  hes told us about what he 
was going through around the time he took out these mortgages. I was sorry to read of the 
tragedy that hes experienced  and have no doubt that things  wouldve  been very tough for 
him when  all this was going  on. And it means  I appreciate that his mind will not have been as 
focused on his mortgage application as it otherwise wouldve been. But even  taking those 
circumstances into account,  I dont think theres anything else I could reasonably  expect 
Nationwide to have  done to ensure that Mr L understood the terms of the agreement. 
So having  considered everything, I dont think Nationwide made  an error either in agreeing 
to lend on the terms that it did or in the information  that it gave Mr L about the mortgages. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything further  in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3375124