K820x#14complaint
Mr R says TSB Bank  plcs IT problems  had an impact on him. 
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experience  IT problems. Mr R says this meant it took almost 
two months for a replacement debit card to be sent to him when his old one was cancelled  in 
May 2018. This led to him being unable to make payments on loans with third party 
providers. He said that because of this he incurred charges and his credit  file was affected.  
An investigator looked into the complaint and recommended TSB pay Mr R £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience the issue had caused him. Mr R didnt think  this was enough 
compensation. He also said his creditors were  demanding  the full balance of his loans due to 
non-payment and he had accrued additional interest  because of TSBs  error.  
A second investigator looked into the complaint  and contacted all of the creditors  Mr R had 
mentioned. Creditor  one (C1) provided  evidence that Mr R missed two payments due to 
either insufficient funds  or non-payment while Mr R still had his old debit card.   So the 
investigator didnt  think  the missed  payments  were  caused by a TSB error.  Creditor  two 
(C2) provided evidence  to show Mr R stopped  making payments to his loan in January 2018, 
around four months before Mr Rs old card was cancelled. And creditor  three (C3) evidenced 
Mr Rs last payment to the loan was in February  2018. So again,  the investigator  didnt  feel 
the missed payments to C2 and C3 were due to TSBs error. 
Mr R disagreed and still felt £150 compensation  wasnt enough. He reiterated  that hed been  
without his debit  card for almost three months  and this was very inconvenient. The 
investigator acknowledged this and recommended the distress and inconvenience  payment 
be increased to £300. Mr R accepted this as a way to resolve his complaint. 
Around two months  later Mr R contacted us again  to say hed recently incurred additional 
fees on a separate loan he was unable to pay while he didnt have a TSB debit  card. Ill refer 
to this third party creditor  as creditor four (C4) He asked for the additional fees of around 
£300 to be refunded to him. The investigator didnt agree this should  be refunded as he felt 
Mr R couldve  mitigated  the situation by trying to make the loan payments another  way. Mr R 
disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the recommendation of £300 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by Mr R not having  his debit card for a period of time. And I dont 
think the additional fees Mr R incurred on the loan he had with C4 should be refunded. Ill 
explain why. 
As Mr R previously  accepted the investigators  findings on the charges relating to his loans 
with C1, C2 and C3, I wont go into too much detail on these. Suffice to say looking at the 
evidence provided  by the third party creditors, Im satisfied Mr R began  having issues  with 
making repayments some time before his old debit card was cancelled. So I think its more 
likely that had Mr Rs new debit card been  sent to him in a reasonable timeframe, he still 
Ref: DRN36829562wouldve had problems  making his loan repayments. So I agree with the investigator that I 
dont think TSB is solely responsible for Mr Rs missed loan repayments for C1, C2 and C3. 
Mr R provided  a screenshot  of the letter he received from C4 in February  2019  in which it 
requested a final payment of £589.80.  This comprised of the principal remaining on the loan 
of £373.40 and expenses of £216.40.  Mr R didnt provide a full copy of the letter  showing all 
of the information within  it. Because of this, we contacted C4 and asked for some  further  
information about Mr Rs loan. 
C4 confirmed that Mr R took out his loan in March 2018 and was due to make a full 
repayment in April 2018. Mr R didnt make the payment on time and I can see he still had a 
working debit card at that time.  So  I dont think TSB are responsible  for Mr R missing the 
repayment date of his loan. C4 has also told us it tried to contact Mr R via text but didnt 
receive a response. Mr R did text C4 from the same mobile number C4 had been  trying to 
reach him on to request  a payment date change.  But after that point C4 were unable  to 
make contact so the account was passed to their collection partners.
Mr R did attempt to make a payment to C4 in January  2019.  But this was around six months 
after he received  a replacement debit card for his TSB account. Considering Mr R didnt 
repay his loan on time when he had his initial working debit  card, and then didnt attempt 
another payment for six months after he received a replacement debit card, I dont think  TSB 
is wholly responsible  for C4 now demanding full repayment with additional fees. So I dont 
think TSB should refund Mr R for any fees associated with the loan C4 provided.
But I do think Mr R was inconvenienced  by not having a replacement debit card sent to him 
in a timely manner. Looking at the statements for his TSB account I can see the last time he 
used his old card was 24 May 2018  and he first used  his new one on 7 July. In the six weeks 
or so that he didnt  have a debit card he transferred  funds  to a friend who withdrew  it for him. 
So I can see this wouldve been  distressing  for him. Having  considered  this, I agree with the 
recommendation already made  of £300  and I think this fairly reflects the impact the matter 
has had on Mr R.
what the business needs  to do
TSB should now pay Mr R £300  for the distress  and inconvenience its error has caused him, 
if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36829563
Ref: DRN3682956