K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mrs P in 2002, in connection with a
re-mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mrs P if she couldnt work because of 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main  questions I need  to consider are:
-If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs Ps needs?
-Did Santander give Mrs P the information  she needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there  was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mrs P is worse  off as a result. That is, would she have done something  different  such  as 
not taking out the policy   if there hadnt been any problems  with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs P says she was told she had to take the PPI to get the loan she wanted,  and that 
Santander didnt  give her a proper choice.  Ive noted  everything  Mrs P has said.
Santander hasnt  provided much  information  from the point of sale, as these events
occurred a number  of years ago. This isnt surprising and its similar to some other cases 
Ive seen.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs P and Santander when the policy 
was sold. But for me to decide that Santander didnt tell her the PPI was optional, Id 
have to conclude that this was more likely than not.
This is difficult, given  the lack of paperwork we have. Without anything  else to support what
Mrs P has told me, it seems to me that it couldve been just as likely that she knew  the PPI
Ref: DRN31774922was optional and chose to take it out.
So because of the limited  information available to me, Ive not been able to safely  conclude
that Santander didnt make  the optional nature of the policy  clear  to Mrs P.
Santander has accepted that it advised  Mrs P to take out the policy  and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
-Mrs P was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-Mrs P didnt  have any other  means  of covering her repayments  if she became 
unemployed. The policy cost about  £25 a month and wouldve covered the 
mortgage repayments while Mrs P wasnt working. Keeping in mind the 
consequences of defaulting  on a loan secured on her home, I think  the policy 
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs P. I understand Mrs P made  a successful  
claim on the policy in 2011.
-Mrs P wasnt affected by the policys condition that limited benefits  for self-employed 
people. So I dont  think Mrs P needed  better advice or information about  the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made  clear  to Mrs P before she agreed to buy it.
But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think it 
unlikely Mrs P would  have made a different decision if better  information  about 
the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs P wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations  and the policy seems to have been  affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mrs P 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall,  I 
think she would still have  taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3177492