K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains because he says he was unaware that Omni Capital Retail  Finance  Limited 
gave him a loan to buy an educational  programme for his children.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision, a copy of which is attached, and forms part of this final decision. I also 
explained why I didnt propose  to uphold the complaint or to require Omni  to remove Mr E 
from the loan agreement.  I invited Mr E and Omni to let me have any more  arguments or 
evidence they wanted me to consider, before making my final decision.
Omni had no further comments to add to my provisional  decision.  Mr E didnt  accept my 
provisional decision. In summary, Mr E said:
-The salesperson  only identified themselves as a representative of X, and not also a 
representative of a finance provider,  like Omni. And his wife was present at the 
meeting and can support his side or the argument.
-He agreed to the payment structure,  but didnt sign any documents or confirm 
anything on the salespersons  laptop.  And that Omni should have sent him 
paperwork through the post, or via an email to use with his IP address.
-There is no evidence of a credit search carried out by Omni. And he would not have 
applied for additional  borrowing at the time, due to his credit  history.
-He had no relationship with Omni, so had reason  to treat any emails from them as 
junk. And he verbally gave the salesperson his bank details, rather  than signing the 
direct debit  instruction.
-His children no longer make use of the online educational programmes.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise Mr E will 
be very disappointed, Ive come to the same  conclusion  I set out in my provisional decision, 
for the same reasons.
I can see that Mr E has put a significant  amount of time and effort  into telling us his side of 
what happened. And I acknowledge  how strongly he feels about the events leading up to the 
sale of the lifetime licences. Id like to be clear, that my conclusions  are not to simply dismiss 
what Mr E has said, but to consider them alongside the other  evidence  that I have to look at.
the sales person  from X and their relationship  with Omni
Mr E says that the salesperson  from X didnt explain that he was also representing Omni, or 
that Omni  could provide the borrowing to finance  the purchase of the lifetime  licences. The 
finance providers  name doesnt appear  on the enrolment form, customer  agreement  form or 
the self-declaration of affordability. Instead  each of these documents suggest that a finance 
provider will be used to provide the borrowing.
Ref: DRN32447752The customer clarification and satisfaction form shows  Mr Es handwritten signature, when 
he agreed to buy the lifetime licences. In one section, this form says that the finance will be 
provided by a third party. So, I think Mr E was made  aware  that a party  other than X was 
involved with the purchase.
Omnis name does  appear on the loan agreement form and direct  debit mandate,  which both 
show Mr Es electronic signature, from the day and time the meeting with X took place. Omni 
also sent conformation  of the loan to Mr E, in an email a few days  after the agreement was 
made. And the direct debit to pay for the lifetime licences, shows Omni as the beneficiary, on 
Mr Es bank  statements.
I acknowledge that Mr E treated the email  as junk and thought nothing of the mention of 
Omni on his bank statement. But, I think the information about Omni was given to Mr E at 
the time he agreed  to buy the lifetime  licences and that their connection to X wasnt  hidden  
in any of the information that followed.
the paperwork
Mr E says that his wife was present when the salesperson from X, sold him the lifetime 
licences and she can support, what he says happened. I have thought  about  what  Mr E says 
here. But, Ive also considered all the documents available, as well as what happened after 
the sale was agreed.
Omni have  provided  a loan agreement form where  Mr Es electronic  signature is shown. 
They have sent us the customer clarification  and satisfaction form, where Mr Es handwritten 
signature is shown. And the enrolment form shows his electronic signature,  in five separate  
places. Omni have also provided  records to show that they sent a follow  up email to Mr E 
after the sale.
Having considered everything, I think Omni gave Mr E information  about the loan at the time 
he agreed to the purchase and in an email  message  afterwards. I understand that Mr Es 
wife will be able to support what he says happened. However, looking at all the information 
and evidence available,  Im persuaded that Omni  have treated Mr E fairly, by giving him the 
details of the loan agreement at the time of the sale.
the credit  search
Within the documents sent to us, Omni provided  notes showing that they looked the 
borrowing Mr E had elsewhere, when he agreed  to buy the lifetime  licence.  Omnis  notes 
also show that they had information  about how much Mr E repaid to his other lenders each 
month and what that left from his income.  
Those details match  the credit  reference  agency  report and the bank statements, Mr E has 
sent to us. I acknowledge that the income  and expenditure details are absent from the 
enrolment form. But, taking everything into consideration, I think  Omni carried  out a check on 
Mr Es monthly commitment to his other  borrowing.
Ive also thought about the other information  Omnis  records show they took from Mr E. 
Omni gathered details  about Mr Es employer, role and salary and these details were 
correct, when looking at Mr Es bank statements from the time and from their internal 
Ref: DRN32447753records. So, I think the information Omni  gathered,  together with their review  of Mr Es 
borrowing, means they did conduct  an appropriate  credit search.
Mr E has explained that because  of his previous experience with credit, he would not have 
applied for any further borrowing. The loan for the lifetime licences didnt include any interest 
and Mr E says he was satisfied to go ahead with the purchase and could afford the 
repayments. I acknowledge that Mr E may have been hesitant to take out further borrowing, 
but I think he was prepared to pay Omni, in instalments for the lifetime licences. So, I think  
Mr E accepted that he would be entering  into an agreement, of some  sort, to gradually repay 
what he had bought.
I accept that Mr Es children may not make use of the online educational programmes. But, 
Mr Es complaint was that he says Omni didnt tell him he was entering  into a loan 
agreement. So, it wasnt for us to consider here,  if the services Mr E bought from Omni, were 
right for his children. Our investigation was to find if Omni had acted fairly, when they 
provided a loan to Mr E. And in all the circumstances, I think Omni did treat Mr E fairly.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32447754copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr E complains because he says he was unaware that Omni Capital Retail  Finance Limited gave him 
a loan to buy an educational programme for his children.
background
In early 2018, Mr E spoke to a salesperson from a company,  who Ill call X, about an online 
educational programme, that he was interested in to help his children. One of the things X sell to their 
customers, is something they call a lifetime licence,  which  gives the customer  access  to educational 
programmes in English and maths.  To help customers purchase the lifetime licence, Omni allow X to 
sell their loans on their behalf.
Its common for a salesperson from X to visit potential customers at their home. Instead of a 
signature, X complete most of the loan application documents with electronic signatures on a laptop 
or tablet. During his meeting with X, Mr E says he agreed to buy an English and maths licence, to be 
paid by a monthly direct debit.
After a few months of using the lifetime  licence, Mr E says he thought  that the educational programme 
wasnt benefitting his children and it wasnt really  being  used. So, he contacted X to talk about 
stopping his repayments and ending his agreement with them. 
X didnt allow Mr E to cancel the lifetime licence.  They said the terms and conditions of a loan from 
Omni, which was used  to buy his licence, meant he could  not cancel the agreement. Mr E says this is 
when he discovered X had entered  him into a fixed sum loan agreement  with Omni, under  which he 
was expected to pay 47 monthly instalments of £65.41.
Mr E complained to Omni and said he wasnt aware  of the loan given  to him. He says he didnt agree  
to a loan and the salesperson from X didnt mention  it during their discussion. Mr E also says his 
credit history at the time, meant that Omni  should  have  declined any loan application  from him. In 
their final response,  Omni  told Mr E that he had signed the loan agreement  form, so he was aware 
hed borrowed money from them. 
X also investigated Mr Es concerns and said all the information  about the loan was available to him 
before he signed the agreement  form. They  said Mr E had 14 days  to cancel the loan, when he first 
bought the lifetime licence. But as he didnt cancel  the agreement within  those  14 days, he was 
responsible for all the repayments. X also said that their salesperson denies  that any information was 
kept from Mr E and that they could still help Mr E get more from the learning  programme.
Mr E disagreed and brought his complaint about Omni to us. One of our investigators looked into the 
case and concluded that the agreement  forms were electronically signed by Mr E and are clear, in 
that they are for a loan to pay for the learning  programme. She also found  that Omni had sent Mr E an 
email after the loan was agreed, confirming  the loan and that there was nothing  on Mr Es credit 
report which meant  they should have declined  the application.
Mr E didnt accept this and said he didnt look at Omnis  email because  he had never  heard of them, 
and hed only ever dealt with X. He also reiterated that the salesperson didnt  tell him about the loan, 
and that his credit report should have stopped Omni lending him money. Mr E added  that he only kept 
up with repayments to stop further  damage to his credit  file, and that his children  now use a private 
tutor, instead  of the learning programme.
The investigator didnt change  her conclusions and Mr Es case has now been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
Ref: DRN32447755my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When a customer buys goods or services using  a loan similar to the one Omni has provided  to Mr E, 
they can make  a claim against the finance provider  for a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation 
made by the supplier of those goods or services. But, certain conditions  must be met for them  to do 
so. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides consumers with protection, if they think  a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation has happened. Where loans, similar  to Mr Es are sold by a 
credit broker, then the finance provider  is responsible for any incorrect  information given by the 
broker, about  the loan and during the sales process. Under section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974, the broker is treated  as acting as the finance providers  agent.
Ive also thought  about  the debtor, creditor supplier relationship between  Mr E, X and Omni. I think  X 
supplied the licence to Mr E, using the finance agreement from Omni.  The educational programme 
was for Mr Es children  to use. But, Mr E was the contracting party, not his children. So, I think  the 
necessary conditions  have been met, for a claim  to be considered under section  75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
In Mr Es case, he is able to bring a complaint  about Omni, if X had made incorrect statements  about 
the contract. He can also complain if he feels X failed  to keep  to the terms of its agreement, or about 
incorrect information X may have given him about the learning programme.
Did X mislead  Mr E about the finance agreement?
Mr E says X didnt discuss a loan with him when he agreed to buy the lifetime licence. The 
salesperson from X denies  that they kept any information about the loan, from Mr E, when they met. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr E has told us and what  he says he agreed to when he spoke about 
paying for the licence.
Throughout his complaint to Omni, X and us, Mr E accepts that he arranged monthly  repayments with 
X to pay for his children to access the educational programme.  I think  this means a payment structure 
was discussed with the salesperson at the time of the meeting.  Also, Mr Es hand written signature 
appears on the customer satisfaction and clarification form, where  the total cost of the course is 
included. From looking  at this, I think its likely that any discussion about a payment structure with Mr 
E, included  the total cost to him for the licence.  So, I think Mr E was made aware of the option to pay 
for the licences over time, rather  than in one lump  sum.
But, Mr E says the payment structure wasnt presented to him as a loan. So, Ive looked at the 
information Omni says Mr E electronically signed  during the meeting and that they sent to him in an 
email afterwards. 
The enrolment application and customer order form outline the English and maths modules Mr E and 
the salesperson  discussed.  Other details, such as the names and dates  of birth of Mr Es children  and 
the cost of the lifetime licence is also included.  This form ends with a declaration which  says:
my chosen method of payment is via an interest free finance agreement, for which Id like to 
apply.
The declaration also says:
Payment by: Finance agreement via monthly Direct  Debit.
Ref: DRN32447756I have considered the enrolment application and the order form, along  with the five instances where  
Mr E was asked  to add his electronic signature. Ive also considered the customer satisfaction  and 
clarification form,  which shows Mr Es hand written signature. I think  that these forms made  Mr E 
aware that he had chosen to pay for the licences,  by using a finance agreement. 
Around the same time as Mr Es electronic signatures were added  to the enrolment application  and 
order form, the fixed sum loan agreement was signed in the same way. I think  the loan agreement 
shows the repayment amount and term Mr E had agreed to, for the purchase of the lifetime licence.  I 
also think the loan agreement is clear  in that its for finance to pay for what he bought from X. 
I think  the total cost, the monthly repayment amount and that there would  be no interest charged on 
the amount borrowed, was explained to Mr E before  he agreed to the loan. Mr E says the salesperson  
from X didnt  make this clear. But, I think the hand written and electronically signed documents, show 
that Mr E was given information  about  how the payments would be structured. In all the 
circumstances, I think Mr E was made aware by X, that he was applying for a loan to pay for the 
lifetime licences.
During his complaint, Mr E has told us that he agreed to buy the lifetime licence from X and that any 
paperwork he signed didnt contain  any information  about a loan. Mr E also says that the Internet 
Protocol (IP) address used, when the credit  agreement was electronically signed, is different from his 
IP address. As such, Mr E says the credit agreement couldnt have been signed at his home.
Omni have explained that one of the reasons why a different IP address was used  on the credit 
agreement forms is that the salesperson from X, may have used a different internet provider,  on their 
device. I think this explanation is credible and explains why the IP addresses differ. 
But, Ive also considered that X obtained Mr Es bank account details, for use with the direct debit,  on 
the credit agreement forms. So, I think Mr E gave the salesperson from X his account details and I 
think this means its likely  he also agreed to the finance. Mr E accepts he signed  an agreement  of 
some sort. So, on balance I think Mr E signed the credit agreement with Omni and Im persuaded the 
salesperson was likely to have  used  a different internet provider, on their device.
Mr E has told us that he didnt open the follow up email from Omni,  which  summarised the credit 
agreement hed signed previously. He says he didnt recognise Omni as a company he was involved 
with, so treated the email as junk. 
The title of the email  from Omni was Welcome to Omni Capital  Retail Finance. The content  of the 
email summarises the total cost of the lifetime licence,  the monthly  repayment and what Mr E should 
do if he needs  to talk about the credit agreement. I have considered this carefully and I think Omnis 
email was sufficiently clear to have prompted Mr E towards  the finance  agreement  made with X. So, 
after the loan was agreed I think  Omni gave Mr E appropriate information  about  the finance 
agreement.
Mr E has told us that the direct debit to pay for the lifetime  licence, shows on his statement as 
GOCARDLESS, so he didnt recognise  any association  with Omni or a finance agreement.  Mr E has 
also sent a copy of his bank account statement to us, to support what  he says.
I have looked at Mr Es bank  account statement.  Although GOCARDLESS is shown for the direct 
debit payment for the lifetime licence, the entry also shows  OMNICAPITAL. I think  there is reference 
to Omni  on the direct debit payments Mr E has made from his bank account. So, I think Omni have 
always been  connected to Mr Es payments for the lifetime license. And I dont think they have tried to 
hide their connection to Mr E or X.
Having considered  everything, on balance, I think Mr E was aware that he had chosen to pay for the 
lifetime licence in instalments. And I think Mr E was made  aware by X had organised  an interest free 
finance agreement to structure the repayments. I also think that Omni reiterated what  had been 
Ref: DRN32447757agreed, in the follow up email, which was appropriately titled to draw  Mr Es attention  to it. So, I think 
Omni treated Mr E fairly when they arranged the loan.
Should the information on Mr Es credit  report have  stopped Omni from agreeing  to the loan?
The fixed sum loan Omni sold to Mr E was interest free and the loan agreement forms show that the 
repayments covered the purchase price  of the lifetime  licence. So, I think the cost to Mr E didnt 
include anything  above what  hed agreed to buy from X. Whilst I have to have regard to the additional  
borrowing Omni gave to Mr E, I think a loan without interest does not add to the monthly cost which  
Mr E was expecting to pay. In other words, Mr E was not required to pay any more for the service  
from X, than he agreed  to. 
At the start of his complaint to us, Mr E sent us a copy of his credit report, which shows what lending 
he had at the time the loan was agreed with Omni. I can see from this information, that Mr E already 
had a loan with another provider. Mr E had paid less, every  month, than he was contracted to repay 
with the other lender. So, that loan was showing as being in default.
For this reason, Mr E says Omni should have declined  any loan application from him. I think  lenders 
are required to check if a potential loan can be sustainably repaid at the time of an application. Omni 
have sent us information about what Mr E told them at the time of the application and what they 
considered about his credit history. Additionally, Mr E has sent us a copy of his bank statements from 
the time, so we can see if the details  Omni  recorded  were correct.
I can see that Omni conducted a search which looked at Mr Es income  and what he was paying to 
other lenders. Their records show that they gathered Mr Es employment details, salary  and what he 
had paid to any other lenders he had in January  2018. I can see from Mr Es credit reference agency 
report, that the figures used by Omni, to look at what he paid to other lenders  at the time, was correct. 
So, I think Omnis check of Mr Es credit history is accurate. 
I have considered that the income and expenditure section of Mr Es enrolment  form is incomplete.  I 
think a responsible lender  would have made sure these details  were completed, so that all parties 
know the reasons for agreeing to a loan.
But, in Mr Es case, I think the information Omni recorded on their own search, about  Mr Es financial 
circumstances, shows they asked the appropriate questions, for the finance they provided. I can see 
that Omni took Mr Es salary details, his job role and employer. These details match  to the bank 
account statements Mr E has sent to us. I can also see from Mr Es bank statements  that the amounts 
he paid to his other lenders  every month, is consistent with the information  contained  within Omnis 
own search.
Omnis records also show that they checked to see if Mr E had any history of bankruptcy, insolvency 
or if he had been served with a County Court Judgement. Their searches discovered that he hadnt, 
which again matches  with some of the information on Mr Es credit reference agency report. So, I 
think Omni were responsible  here with the information they sought before agreeing to the finance.
Omni also had a signed declaration from Mr E, saying he could afford the repayments. I think this 
showed Omni, that Mr E was satisfied with that level of repayment. I dont think there was an 
obligation on Omni to automatically choose not to lend to Mr E, because of what they could see from 
his credit history.
In this instance,  Omni was prepared  to lend to Mr E. And since the loan was agreed,  Mr E hasnt  
suggested he cannot afford the repayments,  only dissatisfaction  with what  he bought from X. 
In all the circumstances, I think Omnis decision to agree to the loan was fair and reasonable. I think 
they considered  the additional borrowing Mr E had, his income and his payment  history and then 
made a reasonable decision about the history he had with the other lenders. I think Omni should  have 
recorded the details of a full income and expenditure check.  But, the information  they did record,  
Ref: DRN32447758matches with Mr Es own bank account statements. So, overall, I think Omnis affordability check was 
proportional, given the lending they provided. 
Having considered  everything, I think its likely X told Mr E he was entering a loan agreement when he 
bought the lifetime licences. And I think  the information on Mr Es credit file, didnt  automatically 
require Omni  to decline  the loan application.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive  from Mr E or Omni 
Capital Retail Finance  Limited by 22 October 2020  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3244775