K821x#15complaint
Mr A, the representative for Mrs As estate,  complains about ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs  
(ERVs) decision to turn down a personal  accident  claim  under a travel insurance  policy.
background
Whilst on holiday, Mrs A fell and fractured  her hip. She was admitted to hospital, where she 
contracted pneumonia. A few days later, she then had a cardiac  arrest  and sadly  passed 
away. 
Mr A made a personal accident  claim under the policy on behalf of Mrs As estate.  ERV 
turned down the claim. It said Mrs As fractured hip wasnt the sole and direct  cause  of her 
death, as required  by the policy.  Unhappy  with this, Mr A brought a complaint to this service 
on behalf of the estate.  
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2019.  My provisional  findings were:
The policy says:
We will pay to you or your legal personal  representatives if you suffer  accidental  bodily 
injury during the trip which  within 12 months  is the sole and direct cause of death  or 
disablement one of the following benefits

Death £20,000
Accidental is defined  as An unexpected event which results in your bodily injury, which is 
due to a violent sudden and external cause occurring during a trip. This must  occur at an 
identifiable time and place.
Bodily injury is defined as An identifiable physical injury sustained  by you caused by 
violent, sudden, unexpected, external  and visible means.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mrs As fractured  hip was an accidental bodily injury.  
However, ERV says the claim isnt payable because her fractured hip wasnt  the sole and 
direct cause of her death. 
Ive looked at the death certificate,  and this gives three causes of death.  The immediate 
cause of death is given as cardiac  arrest. It then says this was because of pneumonia, which  
was because of a hip fracture. 
I accept that Mrs As hip fracture  wasnt the sole and direct  cause of her death. A fractured 
hip doesnt naturally lead to pneumonia and then cardiac arrest. I would assume that other 
risk factors,  such  as Mrs As age and perhaps other health conditions, contributed to this. 
Having said that, I cant ignore  that Mrs As accident  did start the series of events that led to 
her death.  That being  the case, I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be for ERV to 
pay a proportion of the benefit.  As there were three entries on the death  certificate,  I think  a 
third of the benefit  would  be reasonable. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make.
Ref: DRN39950782Mr A accepted my provisional decision.
ERV responded  to say the death certificate shows that the hip fracture was not the cause of 
death, but a contributing factor. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld. 
ERV says the death certificate shows the hip fracture wasnt the cause of death,  and instead 
was a contributing  factor.  I accept this. But it remains the case  that if it hadnt been  for the 
hip fracture, Mrs A wouldnt have been  in hospital and contracted  pneumonia, and then sadly 
died.
I therefore remain satisfied that a fair outcome in the circumstances would be for ERV to pay 
Mrs As estate  a third of the benefit.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to 
pay Mrs As estate a third of the benefit. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple 
from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
Mrs As estate,  to accept or reject my decision  before  18 December 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3995078