K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (AEGON) distributed the death benefits from her 
late husbands pension  unfairly. 
background
Mrs Ds husband  Mr D  held two policies with AEGON. In 2002 both policies were 
updated with a death benefit nomination, appointing  Mr Ds son as sole beneficiary. 
In July 2015, an expression  of wish form was submitted in respect of one of the policies, this 
requested that death benefits be split as follows: 75% to Mr Ds son, 20% to Mrs D and 5% 
to Mr Ds ex-wife.  There was no updated  expression  of wish submitted in respect  of the other 
plan. 
Mr D sadly passed away in 2016.  AEGON looked into the potential  beneficiaries.  
AEGONs letter in respect of paying  benefits explained that: 
Pension plans  are not part of an individuals estate. So, we, as the administrator of 
this personal pension scheme,  have the responsibilty of deciding who receives the 
death benefit lump  sum from these plans  please  dont assume that anyone is 
automatically entitled to this money.
And
We may,  at our discretion, pay the death  benefit  lump sum to one or more people from 
the following  categories:
Any person  or persons (including trustees) who the planholder told us in writing  
before their death they wanted  the death  benefit lump sum to be paid to.
The planholders surviving husband, wife, civil partner or children and remoter 
issue.
The planholders dependants  any individual(s) who is seen as being  financially 
dependant or interdependant on the planholder when the planholder died.
Any individual(s)  entitled to any interest  in the planholders estate whether under 
the planholders will or if the planholder died intestate, the individual(s) who would 
be entitled to an interest  if the estate is of sufficient amount.
The planholders legal personal  representatives  this is anyone who is 
responsible for settling  the estate of the deceased. 
Originally, AEGON decided to follow the existing expression of wish forms on both policies. 
Then, after its investigation, AEGON reviewed  its decision and decided  to apply the updated  
expression of wish form to both policies. So Mrs D would get 20% from both rather than just 
one of the policies. 
Unhappy with AEGONs  decision Mrs D complained. AEGON  concluded that it had not 
made the wrong decision, so it did not uphold her complaint. Unhappy with its response 
Mrs D referred  her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that: 
AEGON had the discretion to decide  who to pay the death benefits to; 
Ref: DRN32081392In doing so it could take into account  but did not have to follow  Mr Ds wishes;
AEGON paid out the death benefits in line with Mr Ds 2015 expression  of wish form;
It is not the role of this service to replace  the discretionary judgment AEGON  is 
entitled to make  with our own judgment;
AEGON had to take into account all relevant circumstances and factors  to ensure 
that it correctly exercised its discretion  in deciding how much the beneficiaries  should  
receive under the plans; and
Whilst she sympathised  with Mrs Ds position she was satisfied that AEGON had 
fulfilled its duties.  
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators conclusions, in summary,  she said: 
The decision was unfair and did not give due consideration to the evidence  she had 
submitted.
Mr Ds illness resulted  in him being confused and impacted his decision making.
He was put under pressure to make  changes to his financial affairs whilst he was 
unwell.
Because agreement  could  not be reached this case has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
Mrs D believes  that AEGON has not distributed the death benefits from her late husbands 
plan fairly.  It is my role to fairly  and reasonably  decide  if the business  has done anything  
wrong in respect  of the individual circumstances  of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress 
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant. 
Here, the question that I need to answer  is whether or not AEGON fairly and reasonably 
discharged its duties in terms of how it decided to distribute the death  benefits owed from the 
relevant plans. 
It is clear that Mrs D feels strongly about what has happened and that the subject matter of 
this complaint is emotive. Whilst I have taken into account everything that Mrs D has 
submitted about  the background to this situation and the relationships  between  the various 
parties involved, this decision  focuses on what AEGON did. 
Ref: DRN32081393AEGON had discretion  as to how it allocated the death benefits, although it did have  to 
properly investigate the position  in respect  of potential beneficiaries. Mrs Ds late husband 
submitted a revised expression of wish form in respect of one of the two plans he held with 
AEGON via a financial  adviser. This was signed  on 21 July 2015 and asked that 75% be 
paid to his son, 20% to Mrs D and 5% to the late Mr Ds ex-wife. Prior to this 100% of the 
death benefits from both of his plans were due to be paid to Mr Ds son in accordance  with 
Mr Ds wishes.
The declaration on the expression  of wish form reads:
I acknowledge the scheme administrator  has absolute discretion as to which of the 
beneficiaries, if any, it chooses. This nomination is only an expression  of my wishes.
I acknowledge this nomination revokes  any and all previous nominations given by 
me. If I want to alter the provisions, I note that I can complete a new nomination. The 
scheme administrator  will look at the last dated form.
Unless I advise otherwise, in writing  with this form, the nomination  will extend to all 
lump sum benefits arising from under the Scheme.
Ultimately, AEGON paid out the benefits  from both plans in accordance with Mr Ds most 
recent expression of wish after giving due consideration to the statements and evidence 
provided by the relevant parties. 
I have thought carefully about what Mrs D has said about Mr Ds frame of mind  and mental 
capacity around the time of the completion  of the expression of wish form. But, I have not 
seen enough to conclude that AEGON acted unreasonably by following the expression of 
wish form which was submitted via a financial advisor. Or, that it would be reasonable for me 
to intervene with its discretion in this instance. 
I understand that Mrs D feels strongly  about this and that this outcome will come as a 
disappointment  but, whilst I sympathise with her position, I cannot  fairly and reasonably  
uphold her complaint.  I understand that this situation is difficult  and highly  emotive but I dont 
think that AEGON has done  anything wrong  in how it has distributed the benefits from Mr Ds 
pension. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3208139