K822xcomplaint
Ms As complained about the amount of time it took AXA Insurance  UK Plc to deal with her 
motor insurance claim. 
Ms A is represented in bringing this complaint by her partner  Mr C but for ease Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of Ms A. 
background 
Ms As car was hit in a car park while unattended. She reported the claim to AXA who 
acknowledged it and said someone would be in touch.  Ms A said she then had to continually 
chase AXA but didnt get any response  for 55 working days. Ms A asked AXA to pay her 
£250 excess as compensation for the poor service and delays. AXA said it was unable  to 
waive the excess as the claim didnt meet  the terms of the uninsured driver promise.  
However it accepted  there had been an unnecessary delay and paid Ms A £150.
Ms A was unhappy  with AXAs response  and brought  her complaint to us. AXA accepted 
there had been  a delay although it said Ms A had advised that her car was drivable. It said 
Ms A reported the claim on 27 September 2018  but it didnt attempt to validate it until           
7 December 2018. It also accepted it hadnt acknowledged a number of emails. AXA 
authorised the repairs on 11 December. 
Our investigator agreed AXA had caused  unnecessary delays but thought  it had made a fair 
and reasonable offer to put things right. Ms A didnt agree. She felt £250 was more 
appropriate as shed had to use social media to get AXA to respond.  She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that AXA caused an unreasonable delay in validating  Ms As claim and 
didnt respond  to a numerous emails. So Ive considered whether its done enough to put 
things right. 
Ms A said she would like £250  compensation for whats happened and this is the same  
amount as her excess. I understand this isnt because  she thinks  the uninsured driver 
promise applies. But because  she thinks it would  be fair and reasonable for AXA to pay her 
excess as compensation  for what happened. For completeness  however Im satisfied  that 
the uninsured  driver promise doesnt  apply  as AXA was unable  to trace the driver. 
I understand from AXA that Ms As car was drivable  after the accident although I appreciate 
it would  be distressing to use a car that needed  repairs. I also accept it would be incredibly 
frustrating to send  a number of emails  to AXA that were unanswered and only receive a 
response when  using social media.  However when taking account of similar awards our 
service makes for cases of similar seriousness  Im satisfied £150  is a fair and reasonable 
amount for AXA to pay Ms A to compensate for her distress and inconvenience.  
I realise this isnt the outcome Ms A was hoping for but Im not going  to ask AXA to do 
anything else. 
Ref: DRN30374322my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3037432