K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about adverse information  TSB Bank plc recorded on his credit file.
background
In 2017 Mr W agreed a repayment  plan with TSB to repay his overdraft.  Mr W says TSB told 
him the repayment  plan wouldnt affect his credit file. But the plan was recorded  on Mr Ws 
credit file, and has affected  his ability to borrow.
TSB also recorded a marker on its internal records, and accepted  that this was a mistake.  
But it said it only affected borrowing from TSB, and didnt show  on Mr Ws credit file. It 
offered to pay £300 for this mistake,  which Mr W didnt accept.
Our investigator concluded TSBs  offer was fair. He thought  it was unlikely that TSB had told 
Mr W the repayment plan wouldnt be recorded on his credit file. So he didnt consider TSB 
had incorrectly recorded the plan on the credit file.
The investigator was also satisfied that TSBs offer of £300  was reasonable in light of the 
internal marker  that had been recorded  by mistake.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Im aware that this complaint arises from events that took place in 2017, and which  Mr W 
complained about at the time. As the investigator  has explained, we cant consider  the merits 
of that complaint because Mr W didnt  refer it to this service in time. But Id like to assure Mr 
W that Ive taken account of what happened in 2017, for the purpose of providing context for 
this complaint.
TSB withdrew Mr Ws overdraft in 2017  because hed stopped making  regular payments to 
the account. Under the terms of the account, TSB required Mr W to repay  what he owed. 
Mr W has said he arranged a personal loan with TSB to repay  the overdraft. It seems TSB 
did provide a quote for a loan, but I havent  seen any evidence that this was arranged.
Instead, Mr Ws account was handled by the banks collections department. TSBs contact 
notes suggest  Mr W was unhappy about this. They say:
Customer is unhappy the account  is now with collections and said his life is affected  
because of this as his credit  file is going to be affected.
The notes also suggest that the status  of Mr Ws account meant that only the collections 
department was in a position to help him make arrangements  to repay  what he owed. On 
Ref: DRN34545562balance I think thats right. Mr W wasnt working  at that point, so its unlikely he wouldve  
been able to agree an alternative  means of repaying  the overdraft without the help of the 
collections department.
The collections department arranged a repayment  plan for Mr W. Under  the terms of the 
plan, Mr W had to pay £30 month for six months.  I understand  that the plan was rearranged 
on the same  basis for another  six months  once the first plan had expired.
Mr W says the collections  department told him the repayment plan wouldnt be recorded on 
his credit file. Ive thought carefully about everything  Mr W has told me, and also note the 
statement his mother has provided.  Ive also considered TSBs phone  notes and its process  
guide for arranging repayment plans.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed  between Mr W and 
TSB when  the repayment plan was arranged. But Ive noted that one of the stages in the 
banks process guide  requires  TSB to:
Advise the customer of the impact to their credit rating where applicable.
The notes of TSBs call with Mr W where  the repayment plan was arranged say:
Credit file advised  Yes.  
They also say:
Plz ensure that you make the payment of £30 for next 6 months not miss,  as all these 
details will be updated on credit file.
From what  Ive seen and been  told, I think its possible that Mr W thought the repayment  
plan wouldnt show on his credit  file if he made  the repayments in line with the terms of the 
plan. But I think that may have been a misunderstanding on Mr Ws part.
On balance, I think its unlikely that the collections department wouldve told Mr W that the 
repayment plan wouldnt be recorded on his credit  file at all. I say this because the plan was 
put in place because Mr W wasnt able to repay his overdraft in line with the terms of the 
account. So TSB wouldve been  obliged  to record this on his credit file.
This means  Im not persuaded that TSB acted  incorrectly  by recording details of the 
repayment plan on Mr Ws credit file.
TSB accepts that it placed a marker  for Mr W on its internal records  in error. Its offered £300 
compensation for this which I think is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. But TSB 
doesnt need to do anything else.
Ref: DRN34545563my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank plc should pay £300 to Mr W if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3454556