K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains Bank  of Scotland PLC defaulted  her credit card account  and passed  it on to 
debt collectors.
background 
Mrs B opened a credit card account in 1991.  She moved house in 2015 and says she 
updated Bank of Scotland with her new address by phone twice.  She didnt, however, 
receive statements  at her new address and they continued to be sent to her old address.
Bank of Scotland has said it has no record of the address being  updated.  It only realised she 
had moved when post was returned.
In March 2016 Bank of Scotland changed  the way it calculated minimum payments. This 
meant that the minimum payment  increased  from July 2016 onwards.
In July 2016 the minimum payment  was £301.17 but Mrs B made a payment of only £300.  
This put her account into arrears. From  August 2016  to September  2017  she continued to 
pay less than her monthly minimum payments.
Mrs B says that as she wasnt  receiving  statements she had to estimate how much  the 
minimum payment would be. Mrs B couldnt check the account online either, as after she 
went into arrears  Bank of Scotland blocked online access.
In August  2016,  Bank of Scotland received  the first returned statement. It says it tried to 
contact Mrs B on 22, 23, 31 August 2016  and 1 September 2016 by phone but didnt have a 
correct number. Bank of Scotland confirmed  it followed  its process,  and in this situation it 
wouldnt write to her as it had received  a returned statement and had no other contact 
information for her. This was to ensure it reduced any risk of possible fraud.
In April 2017, Bank of Scotland  said it placed a full block  on the statements. In August 2017, 
Bank of Scotlands collection  team completed a trace on Mrs B and received information  
from a credit reference agency which  showed a different  and new address. It then 
temporarily updated the address for her account.
On 17 October 2017, Mrs B was sent a default  notice. This was sent to her new address 
following the successful  address trace.
Mrs B explained that as soon she received the default notice and became aware that her 
account was in arrears,  she stopped making payments because  she wanted to understand 
what was going  on.
On 19 October 2017, Mrs B called Bank of Scotland and requested statements but she says 
it refused and said it would only send them to Mrs Bs old address.
Ref: DRN32714642Bank of Scotlands call notes say Mrs B had said she had no online account access  and 
hadnt received  statements for one year. Bank of Scotland confirmed  that it temporarily 
updated Mrs Bs address,  but she needed  to go into branch to update  her address  
permanently in order to receive statements. Or she could  write to it instead. It says it gave 
her an address to write to. Bank of Scotland says it told Mrs B her account  was in the 
process of being  closed.  Mrs B was busy and couldnt stay on the line any longer. She didnt 
want to give Bank of Scotland a new number  but said she would call back  in ten minutes. 
Theres no record a call back was received.
On 23 October 2017, Mrs B sent a letter  to Bank  of Scotland by recorded delivery,  
requesting statements and a breakdown of arrears  before she made any payment. She 
didnt send it to the payment address amendment department. But Bank  of Scotland records 
show that the letter was received. The records are dated 5 December. Mrs B has provided 
this service with evidence that the letter was sent by recorded delivery on 26 October.
On 6 November  2017, Bank of Scotland sent a formal demand notice for payment. On 
22 November 2017, Mrs Bs account  was defaulted and passed on to Bank of Scotlands 
recoveries team. The balance defaulted was £10,363.60.
On 7 December  2017, Bank of Scotland sent a letter to her old address confirming that as it 
hadnt been able to agree to a suitable repayment plan, it passed her account to a recovery 
agent and requested she contact the recovery agent.
Mrs B is unhappy that even though  it had her new address and sent the arrears letter to the 
new address it was still sending letters to her old address. She feels  its unfair that it didnt 
provide her statements as requested and continued to default  her account.
On 19 December 2017, the recovery agent  sent Mrs B a letter to the new address confirming 
it had now taken over her account and requested statements from Bank  of Scotland. It 
confirmed that her account would be on hold until January 2018 and no interest and charges 
would be applied to it.
On 29 December 2017, Bank of Scotland sent Mrs Bs statements to the recovery agent. 
The recovery agent then passed these statements on to Mrs B.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She couldnt see any record  
from the banks  system  notes that Mrs B called in to update  her address at any point from 
March 2015 until she called it in October  2017. And she couldnt see Mrs B had updated  her 
address even after Bank of Scotland explained the process to her over the phone on 
19 October 2017. The adjudicator felt that as Mrs B didnt receive  statements  to her new 
address this should have indicated to her that her address hadnt been updated.
She was satisfied all interest and charges  were  applied  correctly to the account in line with 
the terms and conditions and conduct of the account. And that the bank sent her statements 
and arrears notice to the address it held on file for Mrs B which the adjudicator thought was 
the correct thing to do in the circumstances.
The adjudicator thought  Bank of Scotland had tried to contact Mrs B but hadnt  been able to 
do so as she hadnt updated her contact numbers with it.
She felt when Mrs B discovered her online access was blocked  she should have checked 
what was happening by going to a branch or calling the bank.
Ref: DRN32714643She appreciated the concern caused to Mrs B when Bank of Scotland sent a letter to her old 
address on 7 December  2017, and felt this shouldnt have happened.
She didnt  think it was reasonable for Mrs B to estimate  her monthly payments. She was 
aware she wasnt receiving statements and couldnt see her account online, so the 
adjudicator felt she shouldve done more to confirm what her minimum payments were.  She 
felt the bank applied the default correctly given  the conduct of the account and increasing 
arrears.
The adjudicator noted that after receiving the default  notice  Mrs B made no attempt to visit 
the branch to check the status of her account more quickly.
She felt Mrs B was given  the opportunity to contact  the bank to arrange repayment to clear 
her account  or arrange a payment plan.
Mrs B disagreed. She insisted she gave Bank of Scotland her new address by phone  in 
2015. And that when she received the default letter she telephoned  it immediately  and sent a 
letter by record delivery which  included her new address. Yet the bank didnt send her 
statements as requested and continued  to send post to her old address. She feels  extremely  
upset by Bank of Scotlands actions as she tried hard to resolve  the issue.  She is also upset 
sensitive information  was sent to another person about her and is concerned  about  the 
potential for fraud.
my first provisional decision
In my first provisional decision  I explained why I thought that Mrs B hadnt  in a number of 
different ways  done the right thing. But I didnt think it was the right thing for the bank to 
default the account. 
I agreed with the adjudicator that all the charges and interest  applied  to the account appear 
to be in line with the terms and conditions.
I also agreed it is a customers responsibility to ensure contact information is updated. Whilst 
I believed Mrs B thought  she called the bank shortly  after her move I thought she was 
mistaken.
Mrs B had asked why the bank didnt try to trace her when  it received the first returned post. 
I didnt think it was reasonable to expect a bank  to carry  out a trace  whenever it received  
returned post.
I thought that when  Mrs B didnt receive  statements at her new address she should  have 
realised that the bank  didnt have her new address. She should then have taken steps  to 
update the bank.
Then when  Mrs B was unable to access her account  online, I thought she should again  have  
made contact with the bank.
I didnt think it was sensible or reasonable for Mrs B to continue  to estimate the minimum  
payment required  for her account.
Ref: DRN32714644I thought the bank  acted reasonably when the account first went  into arrears  by trying to call 
Mrs B a number of times.  And also when  it stopped  sending letters  to her old address after a 
letter had been returned
Mrs Bs account of the call of 19 October and the banks account  differed considerably. It 
was agreed by both,  however, that in that call Mrs B confirmed  her new address.  I thought  
the bank should have  permanently updated Mrs Bs records  shortly  after it received the letter 
sent by recorded delivery  on 26 October 2017.
Although the letter  wasnt sent to the change of address team, it was signed for by the bank  
and the banks own notes of the call say it said the address could be changed by letter.
In the October  letter Mrs B explained she needed to see statements for her account before 
she could make a payment. I didnt think this was an unreasonable  request, although I did 
think Mrs B would have been  wise to make  a payment at this point given she must have 
known that  having not seen a statement for some time  there was a significant risk she 
had fallen into arrears.
I thought had Mrs B received the statements promptly  she would have equally promptly  
engaged with the bank  to agree a payment plan and the account wouldnt have been 
defaulted.
I didnt think  after receiving the October  2017 letter  the bank  should  have written to 
Mrs Bs old address. But it did and that caused  Mrs B unnecessary stress.
So because I believed the account  was defaulted  partly due to bank error, and because I 
thought the bank wrote to the wrong  address, I provisionally intended  to uphold this 
complaint. I thought the bank should  remove the default and then re-open the account.
.
I didnt proposed any financial compensation for the distress caused  because I was mindful 
that Mrs Bs actions have  contributed to the problem and because she has had the benefit of 
interest and charges being frozen on the account since it was defaulted
responses to my provisional  decision
The bank disagreed strongly with my provisional decision. It said:
it wasnt possible to open a defaulted  account.
by leaving the account with recoveries  no interest and charges are ever applied 
again which is much  more beneficial to the customer.
even if it could re-open the account Mrs B wouldnt be able to use her card anyway 
as it withdrew it  as a responsible  lender  should.
as the account  is with recoveries Mrs B has the opportunity to set up a monthly 
payment plan from as little as £1 a month instead of trying  to meet a large minimum 
payment each month and Mrs B has the opportunity to make a partial settlement 
offer towards the debt.
Ref: DRN32714645The bank  had reviewed the call Mrs B made in October and provided a copy  to this 
service. It says in the call Mrs B admitted  she did not change her address as she no 
longer wanted  the card.  The correct process  was explained again  to her and why this 
was necessary. It was also explained it could update a temporary address on the 
collections system  but this would  not enable her to see her statements. Mrs B 
refused to make a payment  until she saw her statements. Mrs B did not wish to 
remain on the call and refused to give the bank her phone  number to call her back. 
Mrs B agreed to call back in 10 minutes  but did not do so. After Mrs B left the call, the 
colleague then obtained the correct address to send the letter  to but Mrs B did not 
call back. It was noted on the account if she called back.  It believed  this call makes 
the bank's position  more robust as it proves the customer  admitted  she did not 
change address when previously advised  to and was refusing to make a payment. It 
also showed she did not wait to get the correct  address to send  a letter  to or call back 
to.
As Mrs B didnt follow  the correct process to allow an official address change  to take 
place the bank said it couldnt  be held responsible for this and in turn, the default.  It 
had been purely down  to Mrs B refusing to change her address properly and also 
refusing to make any sort of payment, despite the terms and conditions of the 
account saying  the customer must make a payment  even  if a statement isnt 
received.
Mrs B didnt accept or reject my provisional decision.
my second  provisional decision
When I made my first provisional decision I saw a copy of Mrs Bs October  2017 letter to the 
bank. I also had Mrs B and the banks version  of how the call which preceded  this letter  
went. Thanks to the call recording  provided by the bank following my first provisional 
decision I was satisfied  that had Mrs B called the bank back - as she said she would - or 
given it a number  to call her or stayed on the line, then she would have been able to send  a 
letter to the bank to the correct address and in the correct form to enable her address to be 
changed. 
As it was Mrs B didnt  wait on the line, give her number or call the bank back. And she sent a 
letter that didnt  clearly express that she needed  permanently  to change her address and 
sent it to the wrong address.
This changed my view as to whether or not the bank should  have  changed the address it 
held for her.
As a result I thought the bank didnt acted unreasonably when it didnt change her address 
shortly after the October 2017 letter was received. Therefore I couldnt fairly hold it 
responsible for not sending statements to her new address. And therefore I couldnt say it 
was wrong to record a default against the account when Mrs B didnt  make  a payment 
because she hadnt received the statements.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Mrs B disagrees. She says she fails to understand what more she could have  done  given 
she sent a letter by recorded delivery  letter asking for statements supporting the debt and 
confirming that she would  like to arrange a payment  plan but this went unanswered.
Ref: DRN32714646She doesnt understand why I changed my mind  from the first provisional decision to the 
second.
She believes that the change of debt collectors  by the bank, even  whilst  the case  has been  
under consideration, was a deliberate act of provocation and unnecessary  harassment, 
further adding  to her health problems.
She says all along in this case, Bank of Scotland has acted incompetently, but has placed all 
of the blame on her. She says she acted in exactly the same way with all financial 
institutions when  moving home yet this bank  was unable to process the updates  efficiently, 
as all other financial institutions that she deal with. Even to the extent of denying her access 
to the account  in order to make correct payments. All of her other accounts are in perfectly 
good order today  and her history  with Bank  of Scotland goes back many  years without 
complaint. It advised that a new card had been  produced for her but had to be collected from 
a specified branch with proof  of her new address (which it now claims that it never  had). She 
asks how could it do this if it hadnt got her new address? She feels  the bank should have 
this call on file.
She says she responded immediately to the first letter received from the debt collector/  bank 
at this correct address  but it claimed  that it had not received any reply, despite having signed  
for this reply letter from her and thereafter placing it in debt collectors hands unreasonably. 
Had it responded to that letter from her, this situation could have easily been resolved.
She says there have  been several  instances, in writing, claiming  that they had been unable 
to agree a repayment plan but, as has been said before,  it never gave her the chance to 
propose one at any stage.
The bank hasnt  raised any additional  points.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I want to say that I am very sorry to hear that Mrs B remains seriously unwell. This 
service has made sure the bank is aware of this. The recovery agents the bank are now 
using are those it appoints when dealing with vulnerable consumers. I note the bank has 
agreed to hold off on chasing the debt for 30 days from 29 March 2019.
I appreciate that Mrs B feels frustrated with the change in outcome of her complaint. But I 
cant agree  with her that she isnt at fault here. In my first provisional decision I set out all the 
ways I thought Mrs B hadnt done  the right thing. But I was persuaded that when she sent a 
letter by recorded  delivery that the bank should  have changed her address once this was 
received. The bank responded to my first provisional  decision by providing this service with 
the call recording which preceded that recorded delivery letter.  And this call changed  my 
mind. This was because  I was satisfied that had Mrs B called the bank  back  - as she said 
she would  - or given  it a number to call her or stayed on the line then she would have  been  
able to send a letter to the bank to the correct address and in the correct form to enable  her 
address to be changed. As Mrs B didnt send the recorded  delivery letter to the right team  
and she could so easily have got those  details just by ringing back, holding on the line or 
giving her number   I didnt think I could hold the bank responsible for not updating the 
address. 
Ref: DRN32714647As I didnt  think it was wrong  not to change the address I therefore couldnt hold it 
responsible for the fact that it didnt send statements to her new address. And therefore  I 
couldnt say it was wrong to record a default against  the account when Mrs B didnt make a 
payment because she hadnt  received the statements.
I appreciate that Mrs B wants me to ask for another call. I havent asked for it because it 
wont change my mind. Mrs B knew  or ought to have known  that her address hadnt 
been updated because she wasnt receiving her statements. So even if Mrs B had called 
before to change her address she knew it hadnt  worked.
I still dont think the bank should  have  sent correspondence to Mrs Bs old address after the 
October 2017 call. But this error  isnt sufficient  for me to uphold  this complaint given Mrs Bs 
failings with regard  to updating  her address.
Going forward I hope that Mrs B and the bank  can agree a repayment plan. I remind  the 
bank of its duties  to act positively  and sympathetically to customers  in financial difficulties.
I havent covered  every  point Mrs B has made in her correspondence  to this service.  This is 
because I have picked  out those things  which I think are most important to the decision and 
because some of the points are only relevant if I had upheld her complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3271464