K820x#14K820x#14
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy which  
Mr W and Mrs L say The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them.
background
Mrs L and Mr W applied for a mortgage  in or around February 1997. Soon after receiving 
their mortgage offer,  in May 1997, they bought  an MPPI policy.
The mortgage was arranged with a third party but RBS has taken responsibility for the 
sale of the MPPI itself.  
Only Mr W was covered by the MPPI.  The policy covered  him in the event of being 
unable to work or losing  his job. The policy cost around £29 per month and wouldve paid 
out a monthly  benefit of up to £480  in the event of a successful claim.
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. Mr W 
and Mrs L disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ls complaint.
Mr W and Mrs Ls central  complaint is that they were  made  to feel they had to take the 
MPPI policy in order to ensure they got the mortgage  finance they wanted. 
As Mr W and Mrs L have  said themselves,  these  events  were a long time ago. And whilst 
Ive no doubt theyve given us their best recollection,  Im afraid that from what Ive seen I 
think its more likely  they wouldve been able to see they had a choice about whether to 
buy MPPI from RBS.
 
The mortgage offer conditions  said that Mr W and Mrs L had to take out MPPI if they 
wanted the mortgage. Generally, we see this sort of requirement where the customers  
were taking out a mortgage was that very near to or equivalent to the total value of the 
property they were buying. I can see that was the situation here.
Contrary to what is often  said, a financial business  is able to make taking out MPPI a 
condition of agreeing the mortgage,  if it considers it sensible to do so. This is different to 
the situation where taking out PPI is optional but the business fails to make it clear that 
the consumers  have a choice. 
I cannot know how the MPPI was presented to Mr W and Mrs L when they took it out. But 
it seems likely that they would have  been made aware that having PPI cover was 
Ref: DRN38717702compulsory during the meeting they had, and Ive seen  that this was then confirmed to 
them in the follow-up mortgage offer. 
Mr W and Mrs L confirmed on their mortgage application form that they were  interested  in 
taking out RBSs MPPI and added the words submitted with app which  suggests  they 
put in an application form at that time. However,  the MPPI application Ive seen is dated  
around 3 months  later. I dont know why this might be, but it does show  that Mr W had 
time to think  about whether they wanted  to buy MPPI  from RBS to go with their mortgage.  
The MPPI application form Ive seen, dated May 1997, includes  details  of the type of 
cover they wanted  and also the level of cover. They also set out their bank details so that 
the MPPI  payments could be taken. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think Mr W and Mrs L were  aware that they had to take out 
MPPI cover and decided  to buy it from RBS.
I dont think RBS provided an advised sale either.  I think the evidence shows  Mr W and 
Mrs L were provided with information with to enable them to decide  if they wanted  to buy 
their PPI policy from RBS. This means  RBS didnt  need to ensure the policy was suitable 
for them, but it did still need to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I think it probably was.
I also think Mr W and Mrs L wouldve been  given some information explaining how the 
policy worked. And its possible that not all the information was clear as it shouldve been. 
But I dont think its likely  that better information would have affected their decision to go 
ahead with the policy. 
I say this because  I think  the MPPI was useful to Mr W. From what Ive seen he was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions we sometimes  see in these 
policies.
Ive also thought about what  Mr W has told us about not being entitled to any benefits  from 
his employer at the time.  He also told us that he didnt have any savings and would have  
had to rely on Mrs L to support him if he wasnt able to work and needed to meet the 
mortgage payments,  which wouldnt be ideal. But the policy  he bought  wouldve paid out for 
up to a year - and in addition to any other means  he already had available. 
Ive noted what  Mr W says about being  7 years away from retirement at the time, but under 
the mortgage conditions the PPI only had to be held for four years, so he could easily  have 
cancelled it after that. 
Ive also kept in mind  that as Mr W and Mrs Ls mortgage was secured against  their home, I 
think the consequences for them  of not being  able to keep up the payments on it couldve 
been serious.
So taking all these things  into account, I think the MPPI policy  was of use to Mr W and 
Mrs L and I think this is the more likely reason why they chose to take it out. I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold.
Id also like to reassure  Mr W and Mrs L that Ive taken into account all the points theyve 
made in response  to our adjudicators view but unfortunately they dont change my finding.  
Im sorry  to have to disappoint them  on this occasion. 
Ref: DRN38717703my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs Ls complaint. And I dont 
direct The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to do anything to put matters  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3871770