K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr H took out a mortgage with Santander in 2000.  At the same  time he was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered  the repayments  on his mortgage for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work.
Mr H says that he didnt  sign to say he wanted the PPI. He also says he didnt know it was 
optional and that he didnt know what it was.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr H disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The sale took place  in a branch nearly 19 years  ago, so its not surprising that neither party  
holds many documents from that time. Mr H doesnt  remember signing for the policy,  and he 
doesnt think he was given a choice about it. Santander says that it wouldve been clear  that 
the policy was optional  it wasnt part of the mortgage deal. And it says that Mr H wouldve 
had to fill out a separate form for the policy, along  with a signed  direct debit mandate so the 
premiums could be collected. 
Santander has also provided a copy of the welcome  letter, which arrived  some  weeks after 
the mortgage started but before the first premiums were taken for the PPI. I think if Mr H 
hadnt agreed to the PPI he would have  checked  with Santander when he received it. 
On balance, I think its likely Mr H bought the PPI knowing he had a choice  about  it, although 
I understand why he doesnt remember this so many  years later. 
Santander advised Mr H to buy the policy, so it had to take reasonable steps to make  sure it 
was right for him, as well as giving him enough information to make  an informed decision. 
Looking at Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale, I think  that it was suitable. Mr H was 
eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which mightve  made it more difficult 
for him to make a successful claim. Mr H had some sick pay entitlement  with his employer, 
but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. Mr H didnt have any other means  to make his mortgage  repayments, so I 
think the policy offered  a useful benefit.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr H, and the cost was 
comparable to other similar policies  on the market around the same time. 
Ref: DRN33842422So even if Mr H didnt get all the information he ideally shouldve  done, I dont think  he lost 
out as a result of anything Santander  did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, so it follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3384242