K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse) wouldnt allow  him to pay the 
outstanding balance on his car hire purchase agreement  using a credit card.
background
In December 2018 Mr G entered  into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse for a used 
car.
He says he was shown the agreement  on a computer screen and wasnt  given  a printed 
copy of it. Mr G also says he was assured  that he had a 14 day cooling off period if he was 
unhappy with anything,  so he signed the agreement.
Mr G later received the printed copy of the agreement. He was unhappy with some of the 
terms so asked Black Horse to withdraw from the agreement.
Black Horse  told Mr G hed need to pay interest,  for the days  the car was used, and the 
outstanding balance in full to withdraw  from the agreement. He wanted to pay this by credit 
card but Black Horse  said a decision had been made, by its banking group, to no longer 
accept credit card payments against credit  agreements. So it wouldnt accept credit  card as 
a form of payment.
Mr G was unhappy with this but paid the outstanding balance, excluding  the interest  for the 
days the car was used  as Black Horse  didnt charge him for this, on his debit card. Mr G then 
referred his complaint to our service.  He said the terms and conditions didnt say 
Black Horse  wouldnt  accept payments made  by credit card. He also said he wouldnt have  
taken out the agreement  if he was given sufficient time to read the documents.
Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and didnt  uphold  it.
The investigator said the monthly  payment,  interest  and other charges were  clearly  stated on 
the agreement  before Mr G signed it. They thought  Mr G had sufficient time to review  the 
terms, before signing the final copy of the agreement, so didnt think the agreement  was 
mis-sold to him. Finally, the investigator didnt think Black Horse had treated Mr G unfairly  by 
taking precautions, and being a responsible lender, by refusing to accept  payment by credit 
card.
Mr G didnt agree. He said Black Horse  shouldve clearly specified in its terms and 
conditions how, and on what basis, it would accept payment. Hed still like to be 
compensated for the inconvenience caused  to him, and ideally would like Black Horse  to 
return the outstanding amount paid by debit card, and take it by credit card instead.
Mr Gs complaint has now been passed  to me to review  and make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN33616422I understand Mr G thinks he wasnt given sufficient opportunity  to review the terms of his 
agreement before going ahead with it. But Ill have to decide  what I think  likely happened in 
the meeting based on the available evidence  Ive been presented  with.
Black Horses records show  Mr G initially applied for finance  on 13 December 2018, and the 
application was reviewed again  on 15 December  at around 14.08.
Part of the application included a page  named regulatory requirements. This said to check  
that certain actions had been completed  before  signing the document. These actions 
included being  given the pre-contract credit  information (PCCI) in good time before signing it, 
including the option to take the PCCI away if Mr G wished to do so. Mr G also had to be 
given the opportunity to ask questions about  his agreement, and the dealership had to 
explain what  payments  needed to be made under the agreement.
I can see that Mr G signed this at around  14.34 on 15 December 2018 to confirm  these 
steps had been followed and completed. I am satisfied that Mr G had sufficient  time to 
review the application before signing the agreement.
I consider the key financial information  including the monthly payments, interest, and 
charges were clearly  set out in the agreement. Also from looking at the initial application  
date, to the date Mr G signed  the final agreement, I think Mr G had sufficient  time to review 
the information and the agreement wasnt mis-sold to him.
In terms of Mr G being unable to clear  the outstanding balance by credit  card,  I appreciate 
Mr Gs frustrations. However, Im unable to ask Black Horse  to change  its processes. It 
made a decision  to stop accepting credit card payments  in 2014, to ensure it was being a 
responsible lender to its customers, and to ensure customers  paid finance with cleared funds 
and not credit, which its entitled to do.
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly  about this, specifically about it not being in its terms 
and conditions, but I dont think its unusual, and not something Id usually expect to see in a 
hire purchase agreement.  I have also considered if Black  Horse treated Mr G fairly as an 
individual, given his personal circumstances, and contacted Black  Horse to see if it had the 
facility to accept credit  card payment. It confirmed  that it doesnt, and had it tried to accept 
the payment by credit card, the payment wouldnt have gone through.  So Im satisfied that 
Black Horse  has treated  Mr G fairly in the circumstances of this case.
Mr G has also said that he wouldnt have entered the agreement,  and wouldve paid out right 
for the car, if he was told that he couldnt make payment  with his credit card. Whilst I dont 
dispute he may have  done something  differently, I cant say that Black Horse  was required to 
specifically say that any credit card payments  wouldnt be accepted.  And for the reasons 
above, I cant agree that Black Horse  has done anything wrong by not accepting  payment by 
credit card.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Ref: DRN33616423Farhana Akhtar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3361642