K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt refund a payment she 
disputed. He would like the disputed  payment  (£120) refunded. And £80 compensation.
background
Mrs B says she used her Nationwide credit  card on 18 May 2018 to pay for a one off 
membership fee for a networking event. She understood this would entitle her to attend 100 
meetings. 
She says she feels the membership was mis sold to her as it was for 100 consecutive days  
not 100 meetings. She says she only realised  this when she was contacted  by the company 
to be told her membership was due to be renewed on 26 August 2018 by which  time she 
says she had only attended four meetings.
She says Nationwide dismissed her claim for a refund under the Chargeback Scheme  
referring her to the terms and conditions of the membership saying she had used in the full 
the service she paid for and the amount paid was non refundable.  Miss B disputes  this she 
says the terms and conditions werent clearly explained to her. And as she hadnt signed up 
to them  she hadnt  accepted them.
She didnt  feel Nationwide handled  her claim fairly  stating it didnt even  send her a dispute 
claim form. She says she then requested a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.  She says she got a letter from Nationwide on 1 September 2018  asking her to 
provide more information within 14 days.  But on 3 September  2018  she got a letter saying 
her disputed transaction was uncorroborated  with Nationwide referring to the merchants 
website conditions.
Nationwide said it believed Mrs B had received the service she had paid for. It accepted  its 
letters with regard to the Section 75 claim were confusing .And it had paid £50 compensation 
to cover this.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that Nationwides  decision not to 
pursue the chargeback request was fair since Mrs B had received the service she paid for. 
In terms of the Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act she felt Nationwide acted  
fairly in declining this claim  as it hadnt any evidence to show that Ms B had been  given 
incorrect information. She explained  why Ms B got two conflicting letters from Nationwide 
and felt that compensation of £50 was fair.
Nationwide accepted this view but Ms B didnt  and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B feels  strongly about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate she is going to be 
disappointed at Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
Ref: DRN33912172There is no dispute that Nationwide rejected both Ms Bs Chargeback request and Section 
75 claim.
As our investigator has explained the Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary one. Those  
participating  in this case Nationwide  can decide whether to pursue a claim or not. The 
Chargeback rules are quite specific about what sort of information is required to submit a 
claim. 
In this case Nationwide didnt pursue the claim as it felt Ms B received the service she paid 
for  which was a pass for 100 days of networking events not 100 separate events. 
Nationwide based  its decision  on looking  at the merchants website and confirming this was 
the only type of membership it offered.  I have also looked at the website and I havent been 
able to find any evidence  of a passport for 100 separate events. On this basis  I think 
Nationwides decision was a reasonable one.
In terms of the Section 75 claim - these  claims cover breach of contract or mis 
representation. Nationwide  has told us it both looked at the terms and condition  and spoke to 
the merchant. It felt there was no evidence to corroborate Ms Bs case that the merchant  
advised her that the membership would cover  100 visits. And I would agree with that.
Nationwide also  noted that as the there were generally up to three meetings a day it would 
have been possible  for Mrs B to attend 100 visits during her 100 day membership.  So on 
that basis it felt that there was no mis representation as Ms B could have attended 100 
meetings. I am not sure I entirely agree with this latter  point given the information I have 
seen shows multiple  daily events but in different locations so I am not sure how feasible that 
would have been.
Nationwide further  noted Mrs B said she hadnt  accepted the terms and conditions so on that 
basis it didnt feel there  could be any breach of contract. I am not sure I entirely agree with 
that. I think by payment  the money for the service Ms B did accept the terms  albeit she has 
told us she didnt tick a box to do so. But whether the technically accepted  the terms or not I 
dont feel Ms B has given  us any evidence that the terms and conditions  offered something 
she didnt get.
And I am surprised that Mrs B didnt  look at the terms and conditions when she signed up for 
the offer. I have  looked at these myself  these  clearly state that the Passport Mrs B signed up 
for was for 100 days   it doesnt mention 100 events.  It further  says Passports are sold in 
blocks of days with one day equalling one calendar day. So on that basis  I dont feel that 
there is any evidence  of a breach of contract  that Mrs B could rely on for a Section 75 claim. 
And so I dont find Nationwide were  wrong to turn down this claim.
Taking all of this information together I dont  feel Nationwides decision over either the 
chargeback request or Section 75 claim was unreasonable. So I dont feel I have any 
grounds to ask Nationwide to refund  the £120 Mrs B paid for the membership.
I do accept the two letters, both dated 30 August 2018, which Nationwide  sent Ms B were 
confusing. The first one that arrived asked her to provide more information for her Section 75 
claim. The second one declined her claim.  Nationwide  has explained that the first letter  was 
sent by mistake.  Thats unfortunate but mistakes  do happen.  Nationwide has accepted it 
made a mistake and paid £50 compensation which I think is fair in the circumstances. But I 
Ref: DRN33912173dont feel I have been given any other information that makes me feel a higher level of 
compensation as Mrs B would like is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3391217