K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that Halifax Share  Dealing Limited (HSDL) caused  his loss of 
compensation shares. He seeks compensation for those  shares.
background
In July 2017 Mr F received notice in his self-managed online HSDL account  about the 
corporate action  related  to the compensation shares. The action  was administered by a third 
party. HSDL  sought  and received Mr Fs consent to participate in the action and, for this 
purpose, to forward his details to the third party. 
At the time,  Mr F says,  it had been around five years since  he had changed his home 
address but his account details had not been updated to reflect this. As such, the information 
forwarded to the third party included the wrong home address for him. Mr F heard no further 
about the compensation shares  until he enquired  further in 2018   when he learnt it was too 
late for his participation. His complaint  to HSDL asserted that it ought  to have ensured his 
details were correct before forwarding them  to the third party.  HSDL  disagreed  and said it 
was Mr Fs responsibility, within the self-managed context of the account, to ensure his 
details were up to date. The complaint was referred  to this service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and agreed with HSDL. He said Mr F had 
confirmed changing  his telephone number when he changed his home  address; that he 
updated his account with the new telephone number at the time but not the new address; 
that information about the corporate  action  told him his address was part of the details that 
would be forwarded  to the third party and was where  further  information  would be sent to 
him thereafter to complete the process  for claiming the compensation shares; and that he 
had sufficient time and opportunity to update his home address in 2017 before the relevant 
deadline and ought to have done  so.
Mr F disagreed with the investigator.  He did not dispute the contractual terms about self-
managing the account and about updating  his information within it but said, at the time, he 
did not remember that he had not updated  his home address; he had assumed it was correct  
when it was not; there was/is no facility in the online platform to check or update  a home  
address; at best,  the FAQ section of the website directs clients to telephone HSDL for this; 
and he did check his details online  before consenting to have HSDL forward  them  to the 
third party but he could only access and check what was available  online (which did not 
include his home  address).
The investigator was not persuaded to alter his view. He retained his previous conclusion  
and noted that when  Mr F updated his telephone number in the account he would have 
known he had not done the same for his new address and he should have found a way to do 
so at the time. He also repeated the absence of any obligation upon HSDL  to verify his home 
address and noted that Mr F could have  queried  the matter earlier than he did  and perhaps 
early enough  to rectify it  but did not do so until around a year after. Mr F explained that he 
was not prompted to query the matter because he could see the compensation shares  in his 
account during  the period  after giving his consent  so he was not alerted to any problem. The 
investigator noted that he was informed to expect  further postal correspondence to complete 
the process so, irrespective of the shares  being visible,  he knew  more  was to be done to 
complete the process. The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN38709092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as expressed by the investigator  for broadly the same  reasons he gave.
Responsibility in the matter rests with Mr F. The account was for him to self-manage and 
evidence shows that he was aware  of his responsibility to update  his contact  details when he 
changed his home address. He updated his telephone number at the time, so it ought 
reasonably to have  been  within his awareness  that his home address needed to be updated 
too  and he should have  done that. 
He says the online platform facilitated  the changing of his telephone number but not his 
home address. Nevertheless, and as the investigator said,  he ought  reasonably to have 
found an alternative way to update  his home  address. He could have done that by contacting 
HSDL directly and making the relevant enquiries.  By wilfully  electing not to update his home 
address at the time he created the problem that later affected him in 2017.
Mr F appears to have had an opportunity to identify and address the problem in 2017. He 
says he checked  his details before giving his consent to participate  in the corporate action 
but he could only check what  was accessible online  which  did not include information  
about his home address. In light of notice in the corporate action confirming that the third 
party would write to him to complete the process, it would have been important for him to 
ensure he was satisfied  with the accuracy  of his postal address before giving his consent. 
Having checked  some of his account  details  as he concedes  he should have done the 
same for his home address, but he did not. This arguably compounded his responsibility for 
the problem. I do not consider it relevant that he assumed  his home  address  was accurate. 
The point is that he made no such assumption  about the details he checked, so he ought not 
to have made an assumption  about his home address (an important part of his account 
details). Overall and on balance, Mr F is responsible for the problem he has complained  
about and I do not consider that HSDL shares that responsibility or that it contributed to the 
problem. It forwarded  the information that Mr F gave  it consent to forward  and it was Mr F  
not HSDL  who was meant to ensure the information was up to date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 November 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3870909