K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Evergreen Finance London  Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk  
MoneyBoat) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
In November 2018, MoneyBoat agreed  to lend £250 to Mr L. The loan was due to be repaid 
over six months and the monthly repayment  was generally £71.66. At the time of the 
application, MoneyBoat enquired as to Mr Ls income  and outgoings. It also ran a full credit 
check and a copy of that check has been  provided to us. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the credit report  showed 
Mr L was in financial trouble and that MoneyBoat shouldnt  have  agreed  to lend him this 
loan. MoneyBoat didnt agree with that view. It said the checks it had undertaken were 
proportionate when considering this was the first loan Mr L had borrowed with it. It reiterated 
that its checks showed Mr L had a disposable  income of more than £550 each month. 
From the information thats been provided, it appears to me that there  is an outstanding 
balance on this loan account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive upheld this complaint.  Ill explain  why below. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish  
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan repayments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. 
In Mr Ls case, MoneyBoat undertook  a comprehensive credit  check and so it follows that 
the information set out in the resulting  report should have been considered before the loan 
was agreed with Mr L. 
I can see that from the enquiries  MoneyBoat  made with Mr L about  his income and 
expenditure that he said his credit commitments were approximately £300 per month. 
Ref: DRN30843042However, upon considering the credit  report,  it appears to me that his credit  commitments 
were very significantly greater than that figure.  At that stage, Mr L had 21 active  credit  
accounts. 17 of those accounts  had been  opened in the preceding six months. Moreover,  Mr 
L had declared his transport  costs to be £50 per month. However, the credit  report shows 
that his car insurance alone was £72 per month. 
I appreciate that the loan may have appeared affordable to MoneyBoat if it had accepted the 
figures provided by Mr L on his loan application. But it had information  which  directly 
contradicted that which was set out in the application. In my view,  the numerous credit 
commitments revealed on the credit  report were such that it should have been  reasonably  
clear to MoneyBoat  that Mr L could not sustainably repay this loan. 
On that basis, I am upholding  the complaint and MoneyBoat will need to take action to put 
things right. 
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do 
As I said above, it appears there  is an outstanding balance in respect of this loan. If that is 
the case and MoneyBoat  sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it must buy it back  if it 
can and then follow the steps  set out below. If it cannot  buy the debt back,  it must  liaise  with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
a)MoneyBoat  must  remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance of the loan, 
and treat any repayments made  by Mr L as though  they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr L having made  overpayments  then MoneyBoat must 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  and paid on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
b)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree  
an affordable repayment  plan with Mr L. It must  not pursue  outstanding balances 
made up of principal it has already written-off. 
c)MoneyBoat  must  remove  any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to this loan.   
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest.  
MoneyBoat must give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
If MoneyBoat and Mr L do agree a repayment  plan, Id remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to 
treat Mr L fairly. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and Evergreen Finance London Limited must comply with the above 
putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.  
Ref: DRN30843043Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3084304