K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc didnt tell them  they could make a lump sum 
payment to their mortgage account  without  incurring an early repayment charge (ERC) if 
they waited a few months. They ask that the ERC is refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs W had an interest only mortgage  with Santander. They  had a fixed  interest rate 
product which  ended in January 2019.  In May 2018  they paid £100,000 into their mortgage 
account. They incurred  an ERC  of about £4,700. Mr and Mrs W say that this was unfair and 
Santander should have told them they could avoid having to pay the ERC  if they waited until 
the fixed rate product ended.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said Santander 
answered Mr and Mrs Ws questions about  the amount  of the ERC theyd incur. It told them 
how this would change  their monthly payments.  It didnt have to advise them to wait until the 
fixed product ended.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  Mrs W said she thought the ERC  would  apply throughout the 
term of the mortgage.  She didnt know the ERC  wouldnt  apply when the product ended and 
says Santander  should have explained this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr and Mrs W took out a new mortgage  product in 2013. The product offer says an ERC is 
payable if the loan is repaid on or before the stated date, being  2 January 2019. A table  sets 
out the ERC,  which is 5% of the amount repaid.  The product offer says up to 10% of the loan 
can be repaid each year without paying  an ERC.
Mrs W contacted  Santander in May 2018  about  making a lump sum overpayment. The call 
recording isnt now available. Santanders notes says Mrs W asked how much the ERC 
would be, and how to make  the payment. It says Mrs W didnt ask when the ERC would no 
longer apply or how to avoid paying it. This seems  likely: Mrs W says she thought the ERC  
applied throughout the life of the mortgage, so its unlikely shed have asked about when it 
no longer applied. Mr and Mrs W made the overpayment  and paid the ERC. 
Mrs W contacted  Santander in January 2019  to ask about a new interest rate deal. She also 
wanted to make an overpayment. Mrs W says this is when she was told no ERC applied  
once the product ended.   
Ref: DRN38753512did Santander make  an error?
Mrs W was aware  shed  have to pay an ERC when she called to make  the overpayment  in 
May 2018. The product offer says an ERC is payable on amounts repaid before January 
2019. If Mrs W wasnt sure what happened after this, she could  have asked. 
I dont think Santander  misled Mrs W about when the ERC applied. Theres  nothing to 
suggest that Mrs W asked Santander about avoiding the ERC  when she called in May 2018.  
I dont think Santander  could have known that Mrs W thought  the ERC applied  throughout 
the mortgage term.
I understand Mrs Ws frustration that she could  have avoided  paying the ERC by making the 
payment in January 2019. But I dont  think Santander misled  her or made an error in the 
information it gave  her. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Santander to refund the ERC.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3875351