K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the service  she received from National Westminster  Bank  Plc when  
she visited a branch to request that her credit limit be increased.
Mrs M is represented  by her daughter in this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.  
background
On 27 November 2018, Mrs M attended a NatWest branch because she wanted to increase 
the credit  limit on her credit card. She was accompanied  by her daughter. Mrs M is deaf and 
is able to lip read. 
The meeting  Mrs M and her daughter had with NatWest  staff was initially  in the busy  branch. 
So, they asked  to be moved somewhere  quieter and more private, which  NatWest  were able 
to accommodate. Mrs Ms request to increase her credit limit couldnt  be actioned  in branch. 
So, a branch staff member telephoned the credit card department and completed security on 
behalf of Mrs M. But the telephone adviser said they couldnt  authorise a credit  limit increase  
without speaking directly  with Mrs M. They said they needed to confirm  her identity and 
asked the staff member  to pass the telephone to Mrs M. 
The branch  staff member  told the telephone adviser  that Mrs M couldnt use the telephone. 
So the telephone adviser asked the branch staff member  to repeat their questions  to Mrs M 
and for her to answer them into the phone. But Mrs M didnt want to do this because she 
said she wouldnt be able to hear what was being  said by the telephone  adviser. In view of 
this, security couldnt be confirmed with Mrs M directly.  So, she was told she would have to 
apply for the credit  limit increase online,  by post or using  the minicom service.  Mrs M 
declined to put her request in writing  and said she didnt want  to use the online or minicom 
options either.
Mrs M wasnt happy with what had happened  so she brought her complaint to our service.
NatWest told us its policy required customers requesting a credit  limit increase  to speak on 
the phone. It also said it departed from its usual process by helping Mrs M with her security  
questions so that her answers could be relayed via branch staff to the telephone adviser. But 
Mrs M felt the way she was dealt  with by NatWest breached  the Equality Act 2010.  She also 
thought she had been prejudiced because of her disability.
Our investigator empathised with Mrs M but didnt uphold this complaint. She said she didnt 
think NatWest had treated  Mrs M less favourably due to her disability. And she didnt  agree  
that NatWest had breached the Equality Act in the way it had dealt with Mrs M. So, she 
didnt think it had done anything wrong  here.  Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator. So this 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided Im not 
upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M feels  very strongly  about this matter which is understandable. I can see that this 
experience must have  been very embarrassing  and frustrating for her.
Ref: DRN31274502Mrs M feels  that her experience with NatWest breached the Equality Act 2010. The law is 
one of the things I must take into account  in making  my decision.  Under  the Equality Act, 
businesses should  anticipate barriers which customers  with disabilities, for example, might  
face when using services.  And they should  also take steps to remove  those barriers  as far 
as possible. Businesses  are required to make reasonable adjustments to their services so 
that, as far as possible, people with a disability arent disadvantaged  and receive the same 
service as people  who dont have a disability.
Ill start with the reason Mrs M couldnt successfully apply for her credit  limit increase in 
branch. NatWest says internal policy means branch staff cannot request changes to a credit 
limit on behalf of a customer unless  its part of a loan or mortgage agreement. That scenario 
didnt apply here. So, branch staff couldnt  request  changes to Mrs Ms credit limit on her 
behalf. This explains why the telephone  adviser  asked to speak with Mrs M directly.  
NatWest also explained that even a power  of attorney couldnt increase the credit limit of a 
customer because this could only be done  by the account holder themselves. I think this is 
reasonable because the account holder bears the responsibility for paying  back the debt 
incurred on the account. 
NatWests stance here relates  to its duty to keep customer  accounts secure.  Its a matter for 
NatWest to decide how it does that. I dont think I could reasonably find NatWest  at fault for 
refusing to depart from its internal policy here.  This procedure was in place for all customers. 
So, I dont find what happened discriminatory.  Im not persuaded that Mrs M was treated less 
favourably due to her disability. And I note that other contact methods were available  to her.
I think NatWest  reasonably anticipated  that customers who are deaf may not be able to 
request a credit limit over the telephone.  I say this because I can see from NatWests 
website that it does offer a number of ways for deaf customers  to bank more accessibly. 
These include having British Sign Language  (BSL) interpreters available in branch, a text 
relay service  and SignVideo  which allows contact using BSL. So it does appear  NatWest has 
made reasonable adjustments for deaf customers to bank.
Mrs M doesnt  agree that NatWest made reasonable adjustments  for her but a business 
need only accommodate an adjustment if its a reasonable request.  And a reasonable 
adjustment mustnt breach security measures because banks must keep customer  
information secure.
Here, NatWest said it made reasonable adjustments to try and help Mrs M increase her 
credit limit by telephone.  And I can see it tried to help Mrs M because  the telephone adviser  
offered to communicate  with her through the branch staff member.  It said it went outside  of 
its usual process to offer this option to Mrs M to try to assist  her. Im satisfied that this was a 
reasonable adjustment NatWest tried to make, albeit one that Mrs M chose not to accept.
And it said when Mrs M didnt feel able to continue over the telephone it offered her 
alternative options. Based on the evidence  Ive seen, its clear  NatWest offers a variety of 
options where telephone  isnt appropriate  for a customer. Mrs M couldve applied to change 
her credit limit by using  a mobile app, online  banking, credit  card online services or by calling 
card services  for which a minicom  number  is available.  I understand Mrs M didnt want to 
use the alternatives offered to her. But I think that by offering the alternatives  it did, which 
could be used by customers who are deaf or hard of hearing, NatWest  met its obligations 
under the Equality Act.
Ref: DRN31274503Mrs M is unhappy  she wasnt  offered  the option  of using  SignVideo  to communicate with the 
telephone adviser.  NatWest has said branch staff werent aware of this facility. Had it been 
offered to Mrs M this wouldve meant she would be reliant on the person signing to her that 
they were correctly interpreting what had been  said by the telephone adviser. I think this 
would've been the same as Mrs M relying on a branch member to communicate with the 
telephone adviser on her behalf. I say this because it works in the same  way as what 
NatWest were trying to achieve  in branch. And as Mrs M said she wasnt happy giving 
information when  she couldnt hear what was being asked, Im not persuaded she would 
have been willing to use SignVideo  had it been  offered to her. 
While I recognise Mrs Ms strength of feelings,  having taken into account everything  she and 
NatWest have said and the provisions of the Equality  Act, I dont  think it would be fair for me 
to conclude that NatWest  treated Mrs M unfairly. It offered Mrs M reasonable adjustments  
and alternative banking methods. And, theres no evidence that NatWest has restricted 
Mrs Ms ability to apply  for a credit  limit. So, Im not persuaded that its done anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3127450