K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma, lent to him irresponsibly. 
Mr S says that he couldnt afford  the loan repayments and he wasnt creditworthy. So he 
thinks that Satsuma  shouldnt have lent to him. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. Satsuma disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr S complaint should be upheld  in part. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are attached  and form part of 
this final decision.  
Satsuma and Mr S received my provisional  decision. And no one had anything to add after 
theyd seen it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma and Mr S didnt raise any new points  after receiving my provisional decision. So 
Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached  before, for the same  reasons.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 1;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 from Mr S credit file;
I understand Mr S may not have fully repaid the amount he owed on loans 2 and 3. If Mr S 
still owes Satsuma any of the principal balance he borrowed on these loans Satsuma should 
remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding balances. Satsuma should 
then re-work the accounts as if all payments made by Mr S went  to towards the principal.  But 
importantly, Satsuma needs to make  sure that Mr S doesnt repay more than the principal  
amounts borrowed.  
If after doing this Mr S hasnt repaid the principal amounts he borrowed Satsuma can deduct 
this from the remainder of the compensation. If, Mr S has already paid enough to repay the 
principals then any overpayments  should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
And if Satsuma no longer  owns  these debts, and it wants to make  a deduction due to the 
amounts owed, then it should buy them back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled  to make any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr S.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN30565982my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr S complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30565983extract from my provisional  decision
This complaint is about  three  instalment loans  provided  to Mr S between  November 2016 and August 
2017. Mr S has been unable to make the repayments to loans 2 and 3. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm  
(months)date ended
1 08/11/2016 £1,000 3 22/11/2016
2 02/01/2017 £300 9 outstanding
3 11/08/2017 £800 12 outstanding
Loan 1 was effectively cancelled. And Satsuma has agreed that it shouldnt have approved this loan. 
Its offered to repay the interest and fees Mr S was charged  on loan 1. Mr S hasnt  accepted this offer. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr S could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr S complaint. Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr S complaint  and have  
explained why below.
Mr S borrowed £1,000  for loan 1. And the repayments he was due to make were a large part of his 
recorded income. Satsuma recorded Mr S monthly expenditure as being over £600.  So I dont see 
how it could have thought  that he could sustainably repay this loan without borrowing  further. So Im 
planning to uphold Mr S complaint about loan 1. I agree with Satsuma that this lending wasnt 
appropriate for Mr S. 
Ref: DRN30565984Mr S took loan 2 shortly  after loan 1 and the amount was lower. The loan was set up to be repaid over 
a longer period  of time so the monthly repayments were also lower.   
But the credit reference agency data that Satsuma has provided shows that Mr S already owed £950 
to other payday lenders. I appreciate that it also shows that he hadnt started a new loan for some 
time and that he wasnt making ongoing repayments to this lending. But I think that, in conjunction 
with the large loan he had taken out earlier, Satsuma  shouldve looked further into Mr S 
circumstances to make  sure he could afford the repayments. 
I think  it wouldve  been  proportionate for Satsuma to fully review Mr S finances to see if he could 
sustainably repay this lending. As far as I can see Satsuma  didnt do this. So Ive looked to see what  it 
wouldve seen had it made proportionate checks. 
Mr S has provided  some information about his financial circumstances.  This information is limited  but 
it does include a copy of a recent credit report. I accept that this isnt exactly what Satsuma  wouldve  
seen at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate 
checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Mr S was having problems  managing  his money. He was overdrawn at the time loan 
2 was approved and had been for some time. Hed recently just taken  out a significant  long term 
personal loan and he had at least  two other short term instalment loans that he was making regular 
repayments to. So I dont think Satsuma shouldve approved loan 2 and Im planning  to uphold  Mr S 
complaint about it. 
Going forward Satsumas  records  show that Mr S fell into arrears early  on in loan 2, that is from May 
2017 onwards. Satsuma has also supplied  a copy of its contact  notes  with Mr S. These show that 
Mr S made his current irresponsible  lending  complaint in July 2017.  As part of this complaint, Mr S 
has said that he couldnt afford the loan repayments and that he wasnt creditworthy.  
All this took place before Satsuma approved loan 3 in August  2017. So Satsuma  had clear  
information before lending that Mr S had significant financial  problems and he was unlikely to able to 
make the repayments to this loan sustainably. So I dont think Satsuma  shouldve approved loan 3 
and Im also planning to uphold Mr S complaint about it. 
Ref: DRN3056598