K821x#15complaint
Ms B and Mr N complain  that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined  a claim under the home 
emergency section  of their home insurance policy, even though theyd been paying for 
cover.
background
Ms B and Mr N had home  insurance  with Great Lakes and made a claim when they returned 
home to discover  their front door wouldnt lock. They contacted Great  Lakes emergency 
helpline to make  a claim under the home emergency section of their policy,  but the advisor 
told them  their policy had ended in December 2017 and so it couldnt help them. They  
insisted they were paying £62.17 per month, but the call handler maintained  the policy had 
expired. And when  they called the following day, they were told the same thing.
Ms B and Mr N contacted  Great Lakes and were eventually told thered been an 
administrative error, and that there was a policy. But by this time theyd already had the lock 
repaired by the original installers,  as the door was still under warranty.
Ms B and Mr N complained to Great Lakes. They said they hadnt felt secure going to bed on 
the night theyd discovered the problem with the lock and that they felt distressed at the 
thought of having been without home insurance  for six months.  
As they werent  satisfied with Great Lakes response, they complained  to this service. They 
explained Ms B had to take annual  leave from work  because they couldnt  leave the house  
unlocked, and she had to wait in for another company to come and secure the front door. 
They said they werent happy with the compensation Great  Lakes had offered, they didnt 
think their concerns had been properly addressed and they want  the premiums  theyve paid 
to be refunded. 
Great Lakes accepted thered been  a mistake  and offered Ms B and Mr N £50 compensation 
and an apology.
Our investigator accepted Ms B and Mr N had been  given  incorrect  information on two 
occasions, but she noted the error had been put right within  twelve hours. She 
acknowledged Ms B and Mr N wanted an explanation for what  had happened, but she was 
satisfied thered been an administrative error, which meant the call handler had been unable  
to locate the policy. 
She accepted the error had delayed the repair to Ms B and Mr Ns front door and that theyd  
been upset at the thought  of having  been without  insurance cover for six months. But, she 
didnt think the premiums theyd paid should  be refunded because the mistake had been 
rectified and she was satisfied Great Lakes would  have  considered  the claim if they hadnt 
already made alternative arrangements. She felt £100 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances.
Ms B and Mr N werent satisfied with £100  compensation  and have  asked for their complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN36299622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Ms B and Mr N have said theyre  not happy  about the way Great Lakes  handled their 
complaint. This service doesnt look into the handling of complaints, but I accept  the final 
response letter failed  to deal with the complaint itself. However, Im satisfied Ms B and Mr N 
were given referral rights  to this service, so Im satisfied they havent been materially 
disadvantaged by the content of the letter.  
Theres no dispute that Ms B and Mr N had home insurance with Great  Lakes and that when 
they contacted  it following the discovery that their lock was broken, they were  wrongly told, 
on two occasions,  that they werent  insured. Great Lakes has apologised,  explaining  thered 
been an error in the live policy information provided  by the broker, and offering 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this caused. Ms B and Mr N have  said 
theyre not happy about the unsatisfactory way their claim was handled, but Im satisfied  this 
is a reasonable  explanation for what happened.
I accept that, had Great Lakes located their policy, the door could have been  fixed  sooner 
than it was. Great Lakes  has argued  that if the call handler had located the policy when they 
first called, it would  have offered to send someone to fix the lock, but they would have also 
been told this could invalidate the warranty they had on the door.  Ms B and Mr N havent 
commented about what they would  have done in that situation but, in light of their concerns 
about security, I think its likely they would have asked Great  Lakes to repair  the door. So, 
Im satisfied Great Lakes  failings did cause them unnecessary distress in that it delayed the 
repair and they spent the night worrying because their home wasnt properly secured.
Ms B and Mr N are upset  that they spent over six months without home emergency cover 
and theyve asked  for their premiums to be refunded. But theyve  been  paying their 
premiums and Great Lakes has been  on cover. Unfortunately, the error meant that when 
they called  to make the claim,  Great Lakes  failed to help them.  But Im satisfied the error  
was resolved within a short space of time and that Great Lakes  would have settled the claim 
if the door hadnt  already  been fixed. Consequently, I cant fairly  ask it to refund the 
premiums theyve paid.
Since the complaint was brought to this service, Great Lakes has agreed  to increase its offer 
of compensation  to £75, but it didnt  agree  to the £100 our investigator has recommended.  
Ive considered the impact Great Lakes failings had on them,  including  the fact they felt 
vulnerable during the night while the door wasnt locked, and the subsequent concerns  
theyve had about their insurance cover. But the door was repaired under warranty by the 
installers (so they didnt suffer any financial loss)  and, in those circumstances, Im satisfied 
£100 is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Ms B and Mr N will be disappointed but I agree with our investigator  that 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN36299623my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Ms B and Mr N £100 
compensation. The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
Great Lakes Insurance SE Ms B and Mr N accept my final decision (if they do). If it pays  
later than this it must also pay interest*  on the compensation from the date my final decision 
to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
* Great Lakes Insurance SE must  give Ms B and Mr N a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if they ask for one. They may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3629962