K820x#14complaint
Mrs D and Mr S are unhappy with the way that Zurich Insurance  PLC dealt with their home 
insurance claim for water damage to their flat.
background
On 31 January 2018 Mrs D and Mr S noticed that the pressure in their boiler kept dropping. 
They reported a claim to Zurich and it was identified that there was a leak in the central 
heating pipes under  the floor. This had caused substantial damage  to the flooring throughout 
the flat, affecting  all the rooms. They had intermittent hot water and heating for a while  and 
none for a week but werent offered alternative accommodation. It was decided  that the floor 
needed to be lifted to identify where the leak was coming  from and for it to be repaired.
Zurich arranged for contractors to draw up a schedule of repair, it was decided  that the 
repairs would take some three to four months. Mrs D was due to have a baby at the time so 
the accommodation had to suit her needs,  particularly  being on the ground floor. But Zurich  
wouldnt consider  properties available on a six month let. An apartment  was found and 
Mrs D and Mr S moved there on 4 March. Their baby was born on 10 March.
There were considerable  problems  with damp  issues at their property. It was thought the 
leak had been  repaired but the boiler continued  to drop pressure. Further testing was done  
but no further leak was found. The property was certified as dry in May 2018, and the repairs 
proceeded. But after that further areas of damp  continued to be found. It was identified in 
August 2018 that the further leak was likely to be in the neighbours property.  Arrangements 
had to be made with the neighbour to identify and repair this, 
After this a lot of the damp  proofing  had to be stripped back and redone. In the meantime 
Mrs D and Mr Ss accommodation had to be extended but they werent able to remain  
continuously in one place and had to be moved  four times.
Mrs D and Mr S moved back home on 4 November 2018, as the repairs  had been 
completed. But when they moved  back, they identified not just snagging issues  with 
decorating etc but also that the floor had been poorly fitted and would likely  require  complete  
relaying. They complained to Zurich about  the way the whole claim had been dealt with. On 
5 February 2019  Zurich  issued a final response  advising that it agreed  that the service  hadnt 
been to the high standard it expected  and offered  a payment of £1,500 which  it felt was a 
substantial award.
Mrs D and Mr S referred the complaint to this service as they felt that Zurichs response 
wasnt sufficient. The cost of the remedial repairs and issues arising from that are the subject 
of a separate complaint  to this service. For the issues  dealt  with in Zurichs final response, 
our investigator thought  that Zurich should  pay a further £1,000. 
Mrs D and Mr S again felt that wasnt sufficient to compensate them for the ordeal  they had 
to go through.
Zurich said the compensation  it had offered of £1,500 was appropriate and didnt think it 
needed to be increased.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the compensation offered, of £1,500, 
was appropriate.
Ref: DRN34877552Zurich has offered no further comments.
Mrs D and Mr S didnt  agree with my provisional  decision. Ill refer to their comments  in my 
findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
delay
There was a delay  at the outset as the drying company couldnt come  out to access  the leak 
for a week.  A drying scheme  was put in place and Mrs D and Mr S moved out on 4 March to 
alternative accommodation. Problems  were identified with certain areas  not drying properly, 
but the property  was certified as dry by early  May 2018. It was anticipated that the repairs 
would be completed  by the beginning of July.
But the property  was still experiencing areas  of damp. The laying of the floor was 
unsatisfactory for Mrs D and Mr S and had to be redone. This caused a further delay.  Then, 
as Ive set out above after further  investigations, issues  with the neighbouring  property 
meant that this had to be dealt with and damp  proofing work had to be redone.  Mrs D and 
Mr S werent able to return  home until 4 November, some four months  later than anticipated.
Ive considered whether Zurich was at fault for the delay. On occasions it can be very difficult  
to establish where  a leak is coming from and what the cause of it is. It does appear that 
apart from the central heating pipes, the other  source of damp, from the neighbour wasnt 
really identified until quite  late in the process.  Although it does appear that the property was 
certified dry in May 2018. I think it fair to assume  that an experienced drying  company would 
be able to say whether  the source  of the damp had been dealt with. I dont think from the 
notes and evidence  that the neighbours property should have only become an issue  late in 
the claim.  There were  indications throughout of difficulties with drying. So I think Zurich was 
responsible for the four month  delay  in Mrs D and Mr S being  able to get back to their home.
alternative accommodation
Mrs D and Mr S complain  that they werent  told initially that, without heating and hot water 
they would  have been entitled to alternative  accommodation straight away. This was for a 
week at the beginning of the claim.  Although Zurich did then pay them  a disturbance  
allowance for that week it should at least have discussed the possibility with them. 
When they had to move out, Mrs D and Mr S werent offered accommodation  suitable  to 
their requirements, being on a ground floor and allowing pets. Zurich refused to consider a 
possible six month let but instead offered them serviced apartments.  These  were  only 
available for short periods.  Mrs D found the first apartment herself. Over the course  of the 
claim Mrs D and Mr S ended up moving four times. One property had a flight  of steps up to it 
which Mrs D had to negotiate with her new baby and pram.  They  couldnt have their pet cat 
with them  for four days for one short  term apartment, who had to go into a cattery.
Ref: DRN34877553Unfortunately as Mrs D and Mr S have  found,  it isnt likely that a property with the same 
facilities as their own will be available. The alternative accommodation budget under a policy 
has a limit on it, and inevitably policyholders end up having to compromise. I appreciate that 
Mrs D and Mr S were  in such accommodation  longer  than should  have  been  necessary.
I understand Zurichs point that if the repairs were going take up to four months  it wouldnt 
consider a six month let, and its easy to say with the benefit of hindsight  that such a let 
would have been appropriate. But comparing what was available for a shorter  term and the 
cost of serviced apartments  against six month lets in Mrs D and Mr Ss area of the country  I 
do think that pursuing the former option was a false economy. Ive noted that the policy  limit 
ended up being  exceeded, mainly because  of the cost of such  short term lets. Widening the 
search to include six month  lets would have been more  appropriate  in my view. Mrs D and 
Mr S may have had to move properties  at least once but in the early  stages with the baby 
due I think their situation wasnt adequately considered.
flooring
Mrs D and Mr S were  initially told they could only have the flooring  from a certain 
manufacturer. After  they found the flooring on offer to be unsuitable,  they were told they 
could look elsewhere.  This held up delivery of the floor by a month. I cant  see why they 
were restricted in the first place. This did impact  on the progress of the claim.
When the flooring  was laid Mrs D and Mr S were on holiday. However  they had been 
chasing up the contractors. They were sent a photo  which showed that the flooring was laid 
widthways rather than lengthways, as it was before. They showed Zurich  photos of this and 
the contractors agreed to change it. I think this issue should have been agreed  before the 
contractors went ahead  with laying the floor and it caused more  delay.
communications
Mrs D and Mr S say they had to constantly chase the contractors  and Zurich  for updates,  
indeed there  are a substantial number of emails between the parties. Zurichs notes indicate 
that the claim handler was in touch with the contractors and Mrs D and Mr S. But I can 
understand that they were  anxious about  progress  and the indications are that the 
contractors were slow to respond and to keep them updated. This was particularly the case  
when they were away on holiday in the latter part of June.  They  were promised updates and 
had to keep chasing for them while they were away.  This was because they were due to 
move back  home at the beginning  of July and needed to know  that if necessary, they still 
had accommodation.
I can see that Mrs D and Mr S were both proactive in keeping on top of this claim. The main 
problem, as I see it, was that no-one was project managing it. Zurich didnt appoint a loss 
adjuster to oversee the works until late on in the claim when costs were  escalating. Its 
difficult for contractors both to progress  the repairs and to keep in touch, which is why in a 
claim like this the lack of a project manager  made it more difficult  for Mrs D and Mr S.
quality of repairs
When Mrs D and Mr S moved back in, they were extremely concerned about the poor quality 
of the repairs, particularly the flooring. A later survey  report carried out for Zurich  indicated 
that the boards were poorly  laid and warped with gaps filled with sealant  or mastic. It was 
thought that after the second leak, damaged boards were taken up and just put back  in 
Ref: DRN34877554place. There were  a number of other issues such as poor finishing, misalignment of units 
and debris left under the outside decking  causing  it to rot.
As Zurichs  surveyor  noted all this, I do think its clear that there  was very poor workmanship, 
and a lot of the repairs will need  to be redone. As Ive said Im only looking at matters  up 
until February 2019. So although I will take account  of the poor workmanship Mrs D and 
Mr S encountered when they moved  back in, any issues remaining over the remedying of 
those repairs and the cost of them will be dealt with separately.
compensation
I have to bear in mind  that the overriding issue for Mrs D and Mr S, is that they were due to 
have a baby in March 2018, which means  that the water leak came at the worst possible 
time for them. On top of that they had planned  a foreign holiday in June when the repairs 
were still going on.
In considering compensation I have to take into account that this claim was always going to 
be very stressful especially for Mrs D. Zurich isnt accountable for the stress caused by the 
claim itself.  Its only to the extent that that was aggravated  by the way the claim was 
handled. Escape  of water cases can take a long time to resolve, so the fact that this claim 
overran by about four months, bearing in mind  there  was more than one leak wasnt that 
surprising.
But I do think that Zurich  couldve  done more with assisting  Mrs D and Mr S with their 
alternative accommodation. This caused  them extra stress and anxiety particularly  in having 
to move between places. I also think that the claim could have been handled better had 
Zurich put in proper project management in the first place.
I dont think That Zurich  was at fault for the repairs still continuing while Mrs and Mr S were 
on holiday. But I think they were caused extra stress  during the holiday over the lack of 
updates and the fact that they were due to move straight back  and further accommodation 
had to be arranged  a short notice.
Lastly the fact that the work  particularly  to the floor was so poor caused extra stress and 
anxiety when Mrs D and Mr S moved back in. Possibly this could have been avoided had the 
claim been better managed.
However when considering compensation I have to bear in mind the awards  we have made  
in similar  cases. Zurich  has offered £1,500 which is a substantial  award. And taking all the 
circumstances of this case into account, and I appreciate  that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mrs D and Mr S, I think that is a fair and reasonable award to make.
I believe that Zurich  offered  that payment which Mrs D and Mr S rejected. If they want to 
accept that offer, they should contact Zurich directly. 
In response Mrs D and Mr S have said:
1) There was no second leak,  the issue in the bedroom being caused  by an ingress of water  
from next door. In their view the lack of project  management created the delays, as the 
progress was not being monitored. Instead delays  were being excused  by potential leaks.
Ref: DRN34877555Whether its referred to as an ingress  of water or it came  from next door its still a leak. From 
my consideration of the case I think there were problems with drying out eventually traced to 
the neighbour. I do think this was a factor in the overrunning of the repairs but I have also 
found there to be poor project management.
2) They didnt  receive  any disturbance allowance for the first week of the claim. Zurich  was 
going to review it and revert back but they didnt hear anything further.
Theres a clear note on Zurichs  file where it was proposed that a payment of £350  would be 
made. The note went on to say that the claims handler called  Mrs D to confirm  this. If that 
payment was not in fact made then Mrs D and Mrs S should get in touch with Zurich.  This is 
a separate payment to the £1,500 offered.
3) They feel that the summary has missed some  key stress  factors  which they outlined  in 
their 25 page complaint  letter for example the issues  caused  by electrical failings as a result  
of contractors incompetence and the summary noted they had to move  to new 
accommodation 4 times,  but the reasons why were  not noted.  They  would appreciate that all 
factors are thoroughly considered as ultimately they feel Zurich  is accountable for the undue
stress caused throughout this claim  to themselves and their family.
This service acts as an alternative dispute  resolution  service  to resolve complaints 
informally. I have read and considered Mrs Ds and Mr Ss complaint letter but I dont think it 
necessary to go through each and every point. Compensation  is awarded  based on the 
overall way a claim was dealt with rather than a specific  amount for every point. I remain  of 
the view that the compensation  offered by Zurich  was fair and reasonable bearing in mind  
the circumstances of this case and awards  we have  made in similar cases.
My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN34877556my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 September 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3487755