K820x#14complaint
Mr T says that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages  has been sending  
letters to the wrong  address which caused him to suffer  a poor credit  rating,  stress  and 
illness. Mr T would  like compensation of £500.
background
Mr T had four buy to let mortgages  which were  taken over by Rosinca Mortgages. Mr T says 
that Rosinca didnt tell him about  this. So when  Mr T saw a name he didnt  recognise  against 
a direct debit he recalled the direct debit and then cancelled it. Because  the direct  debit  was 
missed Rosinca then wrote to Mr T but Mr T says these letters  were  sent to the wrong 
address. Rosinca then contacted Mr T when he was on holiday which he found  upsetting.  It 
also charged him an arrears administration  fee.
Rosinca took over this mortgage from another lender and sent letters  to Mr T at the address 
it held on file for Mr T. But Mr T lived in a different address on the same street. So, Mr T was 
unaware of Rosinca now holding the four mortgages and cancelled his direct debit to a 
company he was unaware of. Rosinca accepts that it knew of the cancelled direct debit and 
should have made Mr T aware of the position  of the accounts and the implications of that 
and accepts it didnt  do so. Rosinca agreed  to refund the arrears administration  fees it 
charged and to rectify the information  it passed to the credit reference  agencies and show 
the accounts as up to date in February and March 2018.
Mr T told Rosinca of his change of address on 1 May 2018  and asked Rosinca  for copies of 
the annual statements to be forwarded  to him. Rosinca didnt update  the address on its 
system until 8 May and so sent the annual statements  to the original  address  it held on file. 
Mr T wanted some reassurance from Rosinca that his affairs were being  handled  properly 
and asked on 17 May that a manager  ring him back that day but he didnt get a call back 
until 21 May and then by a senior  agent  and not by a manager. Because  of these service 
issues Rosinca offered compensation of £75. Our adjudicator  thought that this was fair and 
didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. Mr T disagreed  and asked for a 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises because of the transfer of a portfolio of buy to let mortgages  from the 
original lender to Rosinca.  Rosinca seems to have  got the address it corresponded with Mr T 
from the original lender.  Ive seen a copy of a Welcome Letter  sent to Mr T by the original 
lender in 2006. This is the address that Rosinca used to write to Mr T. I also note that 
Rosinca, when it got a complaint from Mr T, wrote  to him at a different address on the same  
street which was an error.
It seems  that Rosinca used the address it had on file when it originally wrote  to Mr T. 
Although this was incorrect, I havent seen any evidence that it should have been aware of 
the address Mr T now uses, until Mr T contacted it a the beginning of May.  So, it would be 
Ref: DRN33626182reasonable for Rosinca to write to Mr T at the address it had on file and I cant  fairly uphold 
this part of the complaint.
Clearly this could have led to a more  serious situation developing. But I note that Rosinca 
has refunded the arrears  administration  fees and informed the credit reference agencies  to 
rectify their files. This meant  that Mr T hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result.  
Unfortunately, when Mr T told Rosinca to update  the information it held on file about his 
address, it made a number of errors. I can see that this would be annoying for Mr T. But I 
believe that the offer Rosinca made of £75 is fair compensation for this annoyance. So, on 
that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  I will leave it to Mr T to contact  Rosinca if he 
still wishes to accept  their offer of £75. 
my final decision 
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3362618