K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
August 2003.  Mr A says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.  And having  done so I think  the policy  
was mis-sold.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr A, when it sold it to him over the phone. This meant 
Barclays had to take reasonable care to make sure it was suitable for him. I dont think it did 
this, I think Barclays recommended a policy that was unsuitable for Mr A. Ill explain why.
The policy didnt cover accident, sickness, critical illness,  permanent disablement and 
hospitalisation claims for pre-existing medical conditions. And Mr A had suffered from a 
serious health condition in 1995 - which he was still on medication for and required regular 
check-ups for that condition, when he took the policy out.
Barclays says that the condition  was well managed and as the policy  would only pay a 
sickness benefit after 14 days  of being unable to work due to the condition, it says that Mr A 
would have had no cause to make a claim on the policy for his condition.  Barclays says that 
Mr A wouldve  also been covered  for all other  medical conditions  not related to his existing 
condition.
Ive considered Barclayss comments, but Im not persuaded by them.  I appreciate that the 
condition Mr A suffered  from was quite a few years  prior to the sale of the PPI. But the 
condition was serious. And Mr A was still on medication and needed to have regular check-
ups for it. So this makes me think that being  covered for the condition in the future wouldve 
been an important  consideration  for Mr A, when he agreed to take out the PPI policy. 
Barclays has provided copies of its sales scripts from the time, so I have considered whether 
Barclays made the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions clear  to Mr A. And having 
done so, I dont think its likely that Barclays did. I say this because although there is mention 
of conditions that existed in the 12 months  before  the insurance began in the script, its not 
clear if the member of staff wouldve explained this to Mr A. And even if they did, I dont think 
this on its own wouldve made it clear to Mr A if his condition wouldve been  caught by this 
exclusion or not. 
All of this leads me to think that Barclays did not do enough to check that the policy was right 
for Mr A. And I think Barclayss  failure  to check the policy was right for Mr A led it to 
recommend a policy that wasnt suitable  for him.  
I dont think Mr A wouldve  bought  the policy if Barclays  had made  it clear  it wasnt  right for 
him. So I think Mr A has lost out because of what Barclays  did wrong. 
putting things right
Ref: DRN39667082I understand the credit card and PPI have been  cancelled. So on this basis,  Barclays  should 
put Mr A in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr A would  have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr A owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr A would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.  
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr A would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr A paid more than enough  to clear his balance,  Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr A wouldve  owed  Barclays something  on his credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.Once Barclays  has worked out how much  is owed  to Mr A in A, B and C, it can then 
deduct the amount it has already refunded  to Mr A - which was the portion of the PPI 
premium that was commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium - from the amount owed.  
E.Barclays should  tell Mr A what its done  to work  out A, B, C and D.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3966708