K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund  him transactions  on his account that 
he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. 
On 9 June 2018 a number  of transactions were made on Mr Ss debit card. The transactions 
took place between around  0130  hours and 0845  hours. All the transactions were  made in 
the same  venue  which is a club / bar. The total value of the transactions was around  £6,000.  
With the exception  of the first transaction which was for around £410, Mr S says the 
transactions werent him.
On 13 June 2018 Mr S says he first noticed the transactions and contacted  HSBC  to dispute 
them. He confirmed that he still had his debit  card in his possession  and hadnt noticed being 
without it at any point  in the evening.  He said he left the club around 0200  hours.  
HSBC investigated  but declined to refund  the disputed transactions.  They said the genuine 
chip and PIN had been used for each  of the transactions and that there wasnt  a point of 
compromise for the PIN number. They  also said the pattern of spending didnt match 
common fraudulent use and that there  wasnt a reasonable explanation for how an unknown  
fraudster would have  been able to return Mr Ss debit card, once hed left the venue.
Mr S doesnt  accept this and referred the matter to our service. He said that another card 
provider had suspected fraudulent use of his card with them  and that theyd  blocked  the 
card until they spoke to him. He thinks HSBC ought  to have done the same.
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that it 
was more likely than not that Mr S authorised the transactions in question. Mr S responded 
and provided circumstances that he says evidence the transactions  could have been made 
by one of his colleagues whod been with him or a staff member  from the club.  He also 
pointed out that several of the transactions took place after the clubs published  closing time 
of 0500 hours. 
Our investigator considered what Mr S had said, but didnt change  his mind. As agreement 
couldnt be found the complaint has come  to me to make a decision.  I came to the same 
overall conclusion  as our investigator,  but my reasoning  was slightly different. So I contacted 
Mr S to explain  why I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint  and to give a further  
opportunity to comment. Now Ive done  that I can go ahead  with my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from the outcome Ive previously outlined.  Let me explain why.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or otherwise authorised them  himself.  
Ref: DRN38962052Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ss genuine  card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So I also need  to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr S consented to the transactions 
being made. 
In cases like this, I have  to make findings based  on what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened. Ill identify what I believe are the three main options for what  might have 
happened to explain which  I think is most  likely. These largely  link in with the options 
presented by Mr S in response to our investigator.
the transactions were made by a staff member  from the club
It is possible that a staff member observed Mr S entering his PIN during the genuine 
transaction for £410.  But even if I were  to accept this as a point of compromise for the PIN 
number, Im still not persuaded this is a likely  option.  
Mr S confirmed the card was still in his possession when reporting the matter  to HSBC on 
13 June 2018.  So even if I accept Mr Ss testimony  that he left the club around  0200 hours, 
then I cant see a plausible  explanation  as to how the fraudster would have returned the 
debit card. 
Mr S has speculated that the card could have  been returned to one of his colleagues by a 
staff member. As he often  leaves his wallet unattended  in an open  plan office  at work, the 
colleague could  have replaced it without  him noticing. And perhaps would have done so due 
to being embarrassed  or being  unable  to remember how they came to be in possession  of 
the card. 
Even if having had an evening  out and being  unable to remember how they came  to have 
Mr Ss card  I think potentially being  caught or seen replacing the card would have been a 
greater concern for a colleague.  I think its more  likely than not that a colleague would have 
just given the card back to Mr S directly. 
Ive not placed a great deal of weight on the fact that some of the transactions  took place  
beyond the published opening  hours  of the club. Due to licensing laws, I think  its unlikely a 
club would  freely admit to remaining open later than they should. But in reality, I think  this is 
likely to be a fairly  common occurrence.  
Mr S questioned this, he says it is indicative of wrongdoing.  Ive thought about what hes 
said. Even if I were to accept that the club closed at the published time and that a staff 
member made the disputed transactions after closing hours having previously observed 
Mr S entering his PIN (which I dont). There still isnt a credible explanation for how his card 
was returned without him noticing. If the club had closed, all the customers would have left 
and there  would be no realistic way for a staff member to know  Mr Ss location and to be 
able to return the card.
the transactions were made by one of Mr Ss colleagues
Again for this to be an option  a colleague  would have had to have observed  Mr S enter his 
PIN. I accept that this is at least a possibility. This would also to some  extent  counter  
HSBCs argument that the spending  didnt follow the actions usually associated with fraud. 
Its common that the maximum benefit is sought  as quickly as possible, and not over the 
Ref: DRN38962053course of a number of hours. But if one of Mr Ss colleagues were responsible for this, I think  
its plausible that they continued  enjoying their evening in the club, at Mr Ss expense.
But the main reason  Im not persuaded that this is a likely option is the fact that the card was 
later returned to Mr S. As above, Mr S says there is the opportunity  for someone to do this 
within his work environment. 
But in this scenario, the colleague responsible would be taking a huge risk. They would be 
vulnerable to being found in possession of Mr Ss card either before  or whilst replacing it. 
This would likely have  resulted  in police action and severe consequences for their 
employment. 
Its unlikely that Mr S wasnt going to notice around  £6,000 leaving his account. And Im not 
persuaded someone would take such a risk without there being any conceivable upside for 
them. Particularly when  they would have  presumably just have had the option of disposing  of 
the card at little or no risk  which likely  would have  resulted in Mr S assuming  it had been  
lost or stolen  on the night out.   
the transactions were made or otherwise authorised by Mr S himself
When examining the options above, even making  assumptions about how the PIN number  
might have been compromised  favourably  for Mr S, Im not persuaded that these are likely 
options. I also dont  think it likely  that an unknown third party is responsible.  The same 
concerns about  how the card came to be replaced  would exist.  And generally  I would  expect 
to see further fraudulent  use or attempted use in the days  before  Mr S reported  the 
transactions to HSBC.  
Overall, I think it more  likely than not that Mr S made or otherwise authorised the 
transactions he disputes. It follows that I think it is fair for HSBC  to hold him liable for them. 
should HSBC  have blocked the transactions?
Mr S says that he thinks HSBC should  have done  more to block the transactions, he says 
they were unusual activity  for his account.  Particularly as he says another business he has 
an account with blocked similar  transactions on his account with them on the same evening  
from the same venue. Mr S has quoted  part of the terms and conditions of his account which 
highlight the circumstances in which HSBC may block payments or services.  HSBCs first 
mandate is to follow the instructions they are given by their customer. But they are entitled to 
block transactions in certain circumstances. Examples of these include where they 
reasonably believe  there  is fraudulent or criminal  activity taking place.   
But Mr S hasnt said that hes been  the victim of a scam, or that he authorised the 
transactions but didnt receive goods or services in return. There isnt evidence to suggest  
that he was tricked into authorising the transactions.  His account  is that he went  home and 
didnt authorise  the transactions  at all. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that Mr S received 
goods or services  for the payments made. And as Ive covered above, I think  the 
transactions were  authorised by Mr S. So even if I were to conclude that HSBC ought to 
have considered the transactions  unusual and contacted him  on balance, I think  he would 
have confirmed them as genuine and in the circumstances of this complaint, it wouldnt have 
made a difference.  
Ref: DRN38962054my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3896205