K821x#15complaint
Mr D (by the way of a representative)  says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) 
didnt carry out sufficient checks before providing  him with a number of loans.  Mr D says, 
that had further  checks been carried out Mr Lender wouldve realised that he couldnt  afford  
the loans. 
background
This complaint is about 3 loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr D between March  2016 and 
August 2018.  A summary of Mr Ds lending history, based on the information provided  by 
Mr Lender, can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentslargest 
repayment
1 £250.00 26/03/2016 20/12/216 6 £101.66
2 £250.00 03/08/2018 25/10/2018 3 £125.89
3 £1,000.00 25/10/2018 outstanding 12 £213.83
Mr D had some problems  repaying his final loan and an outstanding balance  remains.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint about his third and final loan. The adjudicator  didnt 
think the loan shouldve been given  because proportionate checks  wouldve highlighted that 
Mr D had a number of outstanding short term credit  commitments.  And so the adjudicator  
didnt think repaying  the loan was sustainable  for Mr D.
Mr D appears  to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators findings  because it said it carried out 
proportionate checks which  showed  Mr D was likely to be able to afford  the loan. But these 
points didnt change  the adjudicators view. No agreement could be reached so the case  has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
Neither Mr D nor Mr Lender provided any further comments  about the lending  decisions for 
loans 1 and 2. So it seems to me that these loans are no longer in dispute. It therefore 
follows that I wont be making findings  on these  loans  in this decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN38925852But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I also think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to 
establish whether  Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, proportionate checks for loan 3 would most likely have shown 
Mr Lender that:
Mr D had a number  of other  active short term loans. In these circumstances, there 
was a significant risk that Mr D wouldnt have been  able to sustainably repay loan 3 
without undue difficulty. I also dont think that Mr Lender could  reasonably have 
believed that Mr D would  be able to make all the contractual repayments due bearing  
in mind he needed to take out loan 3 on the same  day he repaid loan 2, which was 
for a smaller  amount.  
So taking  the above into account, I dont think that Mr Lender couldve believed  that 
Mr D was in a position to repay this loan in a sustainable manner.  And  so it shouldnt 
have provided  the loan.  
I think that Mr D lost out because he paid interest  and charges on a loan Mr Lender shouldnt 
have provided  him with. So Im partially upholding  Mr Ds complaint and Mr Lender should 
put things right as Ive set out below.
Ref: DRN38925853putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
It isnt clear whether  Mr Lender  has sold the outstanding balance to a third party. If 
Mr Lender hasnt then it should carry out the redress as directed below. If the loan has been  
sold to a third party,  then it either should try or buy the debt back or work with the third party 
to achieve the same  results as below. 
remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance  on loan 3
Mr Lender  should  then rework the account, and apply all payments made by Mr D as 
if they had gone  towards  the principal  sum borrowed. 
If and when the amount Mr D has paid exceeds the amount he was lent, any further 
amounts paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments  that may have 
been made should be refunded to Mr D with 8% simple interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement ; 
If after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains,  Mr Lender and Mr D should 
try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment  plan in order to pay down the 
outstanding principal sum.
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Ds credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.
Mr Lender must give Mr D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
PDL Finance  Limited should  pay Mr D compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3892585