K821x#15complaint
Miss W complained that Santander UK plc (Santander) mis-sold  her loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss W took out the PPI policy when she applied for a personal loan in March  2009. 
Santander and Miss W agreed  that the application  was made online. Santander said it didnt 
advise Miss W to take the PPI. Miss W complained that she only took out the policy  because 
she thought she had to, to get the loan.
The monthly cost of the policy  was £56.83. If Miss W had successfully  claimed, it would have 
covered the loan repayments for up to 18 months in total for unemployment,  or up to the 
remaining term of the loan (60 months) for accident  or sickness.  The policy  also included life 
cover.
Our adjudicator thought that Santander hadnt properly explained the cost of the policy when 
Miss W applied for it. She also thought  that if it had, Miss W wouldnt have taken out the PPI. 
So she upheld the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander sent us screenshots showing the online application process. The PPI was shown 
on one of these,  and I can see that there were yes and no options for the consumer to say 
whether they wanted PPI. If yes, the consumer was required to answer more questions  to 
confirm that they were  eligible  for the cover. Ive also kept in mind that, on an earlier  
screenshot, the PPI was stated to be optional. From all of this Im satisfied  that Miss W had a 
choice about whether  to take the PPI, and that she did choose to take it. 
However, Santander should have  given Miss W enough information to decide  whether the 
policy was right for her. I dont think that it did. 
It looks as though the loan application didnt result  in an immediate decision, and the cost of 
the loan and PPI werent shown on the online  application. So I think  that, at the point when 
Miss W chose to take out the cover  online,  she didnt know  the cost.  Instead, it seems that 
the loan agreement and insurance documents would have  followed by post. 
The loan agreement  doesnt include any reference to the PPI. Santander told us that a letter 
would have been sent to Miss W, with the loan agreement, showing the cost of the PPI 
policy. Santander sent in a template of the letter, but not a copy  of what  it actually sent to 
Miss W. The paperwork doesnt  show that Miss W had to confirm  that she wanted the PPI 
after receiving the cost information, or sign a separate  direct  debit instruction for it. 
Ref: DRN37185522Santander argued that a calculator was available on its website, so Miss W could have 
compared the cost of the loan with and without PPI. But this wouldnt necessarily have been 
the actual cost as the interest rate and repayments  for Miss W would only have  been  
decided afterwards. I cant know how clearly  the calculator was shown on Santanders 
website, but looking  at the screenshots  of the loan application process I cant  see a 
reference to it. So I dont think that Miss W could easily have checked the likely costs.  
The screenshots also show that Miss W would have had to click on several  links to find out 
what was covered (or not covered) under the policy. So Im not satisfied that the terms of the 
policy were clearly explained. 
Santander also argued that Miss W didnt raise any concerns about the cost when she took 
out the loan. However, I can see from the screenshot  of its records  of Miss Ws account that 
she cancelled the PPI shortly after taking it out. Whilst  I do not know  the exact reason for 
this, it seems clear that Miss W was not satisfied  with the PPI. 
Overall, and taking into account Miss Ws circumstances, Im not satisfied that she would still 
have taken out the PPI if shed known the cost  and benefits - when she applied  for it. This 
means Miss W is worse off as a result of what  Santander did wrong, so it needs to put things 
right. 
fair compensation
Santander should put Miss W in the position  she would have been in now had she taken out 
the loan without the PPI policy. 
So Santander should refund all PPI premiums paid by Miss W, together  with interest at 8% 
per year simple on each premium from the date of payment to the date compensation is 
paid. 
I know that Santander made an offer to refund some of the commission  it received for 
Miss Ws PPI premiums.  If this has already been  paid to Miss W, Santander can take off 
what she got for the commission from the amount it owes  her. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Miss Ws complaint. Santander UK plc 
must pay her the compensation  Ive described.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3718552