K822xcomplaint
Miss P has complained  about  Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limiteds  (LV) handling  
of a claim she made on her commercial  property owners insurance policy  following  a fire at 
one of her properties.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020  explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf 
of either  LV or Miss P. For ease  of reference,  Ill refer only to LV and Miss P by name 
in this decision, even when referring  to the actions of their agents or representatives.
There is extensive background to this complaint which I wont  repeat in full detail 
here. But I have considered the full timeline  of events when coming  to my decision.
In September  2017 there was a fire in the ground floor hallway of Miss Ps house of 
multiple occupancy  (HMO).  The fire caused  significant damage to the joinery and 
electrics in the hallway  as well as smoke  damage throughout the property.  
Miss P made claim on her commercial property owners insurance  policy  which was 
accepted by LV. She requested assistance, from one of LVs suppliers, with cleaning  
the property  but she wanted to appoint her own contractor to carry out repairs.  
Miss P initially didnt want to claim for loss of rent as she felt her contractor would be 
able to work around her tenants.
LVs contractor carried out cleaning in November  2017. Around  the same  time, 
Miss Ps own electrician quoted for repairs and improvements  to the electrical 
installation and her contractor for the joinery. Cash settlements were agreed between  
Miss P and LV for the work required due to the fire.
Miss P had difficulty arranging for a decorator  to carry out the required  redecoration  
works, so in March 2018 it was agreed that LV would appoint  a decorator to carry out 
these works.  The works were completed  in November  2018, save  for some snagging 
issues.
In November 2018 Miss P informed LV that she wished to claim for loss of rent  due 
to the length of time the claim  had taken to resolve  and the impact it had on her 
income. In December 2018 she reported that LVs decorator had caused a flood in 
her basement by switching off her boiler  and/or main trip switch. And in February 
2019, after attending the property, Miss P raised concerns about the quality of the 
works that had been carried out.
Miss P made a complaint  to LV about  several issues:
Ref: DRN38180352Poor quality of the initial cleaning works  due to areas of soot and debris still 
being visible. 
The wrong paint  being used on wooden  surfaces (skirting, architraves, doors 
etc). 
Paint splashes on fire extinguishers,  showing a lack of care taken by the 
decorator.
Blocked sinks in the basement, due to the decorator using the sink to clean 
paint brushes.
The decorator switching off the boiler  or trip switch, causing  a flood in her 
basement and damage to her floor.
Delays in progression  of the claim.
Due to these issues Miss P said she needed to spend several  thousand 
pounds using various methods of credit and that she was now in financial 
difficulties.
She provided a quote from her own decorator  for putting right the issues she 
perceived to be outstanding,  totalling  £13,940.
LV accepted some of the issues but disputed others. To summarise, it said:
Any grime or dirt was not soot from the fire, but general dirt built up over time.
It agreed that the wrong paint had been  used on some areas of woodwork. It 
said the woodwork  in bedrooms wasnt part of the initial  scope, so wouldnt be 
rectified. But, for the woodwork in the hallway and the paint splashes on the 
extinguishers, it wanted its decorator to have the opportunity to put things 
right. Its decorator quoted the work  at £4,396.
Its decorator maintained that it didnt switch off any heating system as it 
wasnt necessary to complete the works.
LV had spoken with Miss Ps plumber who had said he couldnt  confirm that 
any blocked sinks  were due to paint. He also confirmed that the basement 
had flooded in the past due to Miss Ps tenants  switching  off a pump switch 
located in the kitchen.  He said the basement flood would not be anything  to 
do with the blocked  sink or the boiler or heating system.
Photos of the basement  floor taken before the flood  showed it was in the 
same condition   so no damage had occurred.
The evidence Miss P had provided about  her financial  circumstances didnt 
show that any difficulties  had been caused by LV or its suppliers.
It recognised there had been  a delay  of around  12 weeks which it was 
responsible for, and paid Miss P £300 to compensate for this.
In terms of Miss Ps claim for loss of rent, LV paid £6,320 based on the number of 
occupied rooms and its 12-month limit of indemnity under the policy. It said it would 
consider any further information Miss P provided about loss of rent.
Miss P brought her complaint to our service. It was initially looked at by an 
investigator who has since left our service. So, a second investigator took over and 
issued her own findings. She thought:
The decoration  of the walls in the property was adequate and didnt need to 
be completed again. 
The wooden surfaces dont require chemically stripping as quoted  by Miss Ps 
contractor  sanding  and repainting would be enough. But all wood referred to 
Ref: DRN38180353in Miss Ps quote  should be sanded/washed down and repainted  with the 
correct paint. If, due to the time that has elapsed, there is a loss of match  
when repainting takes place, this should be put right at no cost to Miss P. She 
said LV should  pay Miss P the amount it would cost her decorator  to complete 
these works.
There isnt enough evidence for her to find that the property wasnt  sufficiently 
cleaned before the initial works or to find that the dirt on the exterior of the 
property was caused by smoke, rather than its proximity to a main road.
The overall service Miss P received was poor,  as works were  completed 
incorrectly, and she was forced  to fight the claim further. She thought LV 
should pay £300 compensation for this.
In addition to the 12-week delay identified by LV, she thought  there was 
another delay  of similar length between  November 2018 and February 2019. 
So, she thought  LV should pay a further £300  compensation for this delay.
It was fair for LV to exclude flats 1 and 8 from the loss of rent claim as they 
were unoccupied, but flats 2 and 9 should  be added to the claim.
Loss of rent should be paid beyond the 12-month  limit of liability, due to 
issues caused by LV. This should be paid until November 2018, when the 
cleaning took place as Miss P couldnt  let the rooms before that under HMO 
rules.
Further loss of rent should be paid to cover  the period where further  works  
were required, if tenants are required to vacate.
LV should reimburse costs Miss P incurred from her accountant in submitting 
her claim for loss of rent.
LV should pay Miss P £100 compensation for the lost master key.
In response to our investigators findings, LV paid Miss P £4,396  the amount its 
loss adjuster had calculated  it would  cost to put right the poor workmanship and 
missed areas of decoration. It also agreed  to pay the £100  compensation for the lost 
key. It said it didnt  wholly agree that it should  be liable for Miss Ps accountants 
costs. But in an effort to resolve the claim it said it would  pay a further, gratuitous,  
payment of £5,000. 
Miss P didnt accept  the offer because she felt it didnt sufficiently cover her losses  
particularly for her loss of rent claim.
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
my provisional findings 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Miss P has suffered  an insured  event,  covered by her policy,  isnt in 
dispute. It also isnt in dispute that LVs decorator hasnt completed all the work to an 
acceptable standard. What remains for me to decide is whether LVs proposed  offer 
to settle the claim  is fair, and in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Ps policy.
Miss P has complained  about  several aspects of LVs handling  of the claim and its 
proposed settlement. For ease of reference, Ill address them separately.  
Ref: DRN38180354concerns with the initial cleaning of the property
Miss P says LVs contractors didnt adequately clean  the property before the repairs  
in late 2017. Because of this she would  like the property  to be thoroughly cleaned 
and for the redecoration to be completed  again.
LV says the communal areas  of the property were cleaned by its decorator  in 
November 2017.  It has provided copies of invoices to show  that it paid the decorator  
for these  works. The bedrooms were also supposed  to be cleaned at this stage  
which they werent. But LV says they were cleaned prior to the decoration works later 
in 2018. LV has argued that the areas of grime and dirt Miss P has highlighted are 
not as a result of smoke from the fire  but are general dirt and grime which have 
built up over time.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and arguments put forward  by both sides. 
Looking at the available photos, I dont think its likely that the areas highlighted are 
due to smoke from the original fire. They appear more  like general dust and grime 
built up over time  except for some discolouration to the paint behind  the radiators, 
which Ill cover later.  So, taking everything Ive seen into account, I think  its more 
likely than not that adequate cleaning was completed before redecoration took place.
Likewise, I dont think the darkened bricks  on the exterior  of the property were most 
likely caused  by the fire. I say this because the property is on a main  road,  so I think 
its more likely this is something that occurred over time as a result of vehicle 
emissions.
That being  said,  our investigator felt it was likely  there  was some smoke  damage  to 
some bathrooms which  hadnt  been  cleaned or redecorated. She said these were 
initially included in the scope. So, although  all the visible dirt and grime in these 
bathrooms wasnt as a result of the fire, she felt LV should cover the cost of cleaning, 
sealing and repainting those rooms.
LV hasnt provided any specific  comments on our investigators finding  here.  Like our 
investigator, I dont  think the fact the bathrooms were also showing signs of age-
related dirt means LV shouldnt cover cleaning  or redecoration for areas affected by 
smoke. Considering  the adjoining  bedrooms were damaged by smoke  and required 
redecoration, it seems likely  the bathrooms  would  have been too. So, I think LV 
should cover  the cost of cleaning, sealing and repainting the bathrooms.
decoration works still required in the property
Miss P and LV disagree on the amount of work still required to put things right at the 
property. Miss P has provided  a quote from her own decorator which amounts to 
around £13,000. This quote includes the chemical stripping of all woodwork, 
repainting of several walls  and cleaning to the outside  of the property.
LV says most of the work quoted for by Miss Ps contractor is unnecessary.  Its 
highlighted that painting of the woodwork in the bedrooms wasnt  included in the 
initial scope  of works and was only carried out in some rooms as a gesture of 
goodwill. It also says one of the staircases   which was initially included   doesnt 
require painting as it has now been sufficiently cleaned and the previous finish had 
essentially worn away pre-loss.
Ref: DRN38180355Firstly, as I stated  in the above section, I dont believe the blackening to the exterior 
of the property was caused by the fire. So, I dont think LV is responsible for putting 
this right.
Secondly, having reviewed the available photos, I dont agree that the walls  require  
stripping down and repainting, as quoted for by Miss Ps decorator. It appears to me 
that the finish of the walls is to a good standard, and Ive already said I think  its likely 
these were properly  cleaned down before the redecoration took place.
Finally, while  it isnt in dispute that areas  of woodwork  have  been  painted using the 
wrong paint, I dont think that means  they require chemically stripping before being 
repainted. These areas were painted, incorrectly, using a water-based emulsion. So, 
it seems to me that cleaning down and sanding,  as suggested by LVs decorator, will 
be sufficient to prepare the woodwork  before it is repainted with the correct  type of 
paint. I think this should also include painting/staining the staircase(s) balustrade(s)  
which were initially included in the scope.
LVs decorator suggested  it would cost £4,396  to put right the snagging issues. 
Based on this LV has paid that amount to Miss P. This cash payment includes an 
allowance for removing and refitting the radiators.
Our investigator thought that LV also needed  to cover the cost of repainting  the 
radiators, and the walls behind them  because she felt this should have been done 
with the initial redecoration. Ive thought carefully about this issue.  The purpose of 
insurance is to, as far as possible, put the policyholder back in the same  position they 
were in before the insured event. In Miss Ps case,  her walls were painted  
consistently  including  behind her radiators   before the fire. So, I agree that LV 
should cover  the cost of repainting the areas behind the radiators.
Miss P highlighted that that it had been  over a year since the decoration  took place, 
so said it was likely the areas behind the radiators wouldnt match the rest of the 
walls. Our investigator thought this would be unfair so recommended that, should  this 
happen, LV should put it right at no cost to Miss P. 
Again, Ive thought carefully about this issue. I appreciate that before the fire, the 
paint on Miss Ps walls  would have matched the areas behind the radiators. But I 
think its also important to note that any potential loss of match  is likely to be very 
minor, and the radiators will be replaced  on top of these areas  making it even less 
likely to be noticeable.
That said,  if after these areas are cleaned and repainted,  there is a clearly  noticeable 
difference between  the area and the remainder of the walls, I agree that LV should  
cover the cost to put this right. This is so that Miss P is put back in the position she 
was in before the fire took place.
Miss Ps quote also included repainting  of the front door. Considering the proximity of 
the front door to the fire, I think LV should  add this to its cash  settlement. 
During the site visit in February 2018, LV also identified  an area in the basement,  
below an open  grate, which needed  to be cleaned and repainted.  So, any cash  
settlement should  include  this work.
Ref: DRN38180356LV has also acknowledged paint splashes on fire extinguishers  which it accepts are 
likely to have been caused by its decorator.  So, the cash settlement for the remaining 
works should also include an amount for having these cleaned.
In summary,  I think LV needs to add an amount to cover cleaning  and repainting  of 
the areas behind  the radiators in any rooms where  this didnt take place. If this 
results in a clearly noticeable loss of match, LV should cover  the cost of putting this 
right. 
LV also needs  to include an amount for the cleaning,  sanding and repainting of the 
woodwork which was incorrectly  painted  with emulsion, including  the staircase 
balustrade(s). It also needs to include an amount for repainting of the front door, 
cleaning and repainting the area of the basement below the grate  and cleaning  the 
fire extinguishers.
how the remaining  issues should be settled
Many of the issues relate to works that are still required at the property. LV wanted its 
decorator to have the opportunity to reattend and put things right, but due to the 
issues experienced, Miss P wouldnt agree to the decorator carrying  out further work 
at her property. So, LV has said it will pay a cash settlement for the works 
outstanding. But the amount it will pay will be the amount it would cost LV to have the 
work completed by its decorator.
Under the terms of Miss Ps policy, LV retains  the right to decide how it settles a 
claim  for example by repair, replacement, reinstatement or cash  settlement. Where  
an insurer insists on paying a cash settlement, our service typically thinks  its fair that 
the amount of the settlement should be the amount it would  cost the policyholder  to 
get the works done, rather than the discounted rates an insurer can get. However,  in 
situations like this, where there are issues with works carried  out by an insurers 
agent, our service usually  thinks  its fair that the insurers agent should have an 
opportunity to put things right. 
Ive thought carefully about our approach in similar  cases, and about the particular 
circumstances in this case. I think its reasonable of Miss P to have  expected that the 
works would be completed to a professional standard  from the outset. This didnt 
happen, so her confidence  in LVs decorator is understandably low. But at that stage 
I would have said it was fair for LVs decorator  to have the opportunity  to put things 
right. 
In February 2019,  a site visit took place  where  LV and the decorator had the 
opportunity to acknowledge the areas  of poor workmanship and make  arrangements  
to put things right. But at this point  they didnt acknowledge  all of the areas  which I 
believe require further work. This has meant  Miss P has had to continue to fight the 
claim for a number of months, which I dont think this is reasonable. So, I think its 
understandable that Miss P has now lost faith in LVs decorator.
In the particular circumstances of this claim,  I think its fair and reasonable that any 
cash settlement for the works outstanding  should be based on the amount it will cost 
Miss P to have the works completed,  rather than the amount it would cost LV.
Ref: DRN38180357I also think that LV should pay Miss P £300  compensation to reflect  the poor service 
she received from its decorator  both in the substandard works it completed  initially  
and its failure to recognise and accept all the remedial works required for many  
months  which  has caused  additional, unnecessary  distress to Miss P.
alleged issues caused by LVs decorator
Miss P has also complained about two issues caused by LVs decorator. She says 
the decorator frequently switched the boiler off and that they cleaned their paint 
brushes in one of the sinks causing a blockage. Miss P has suggested that one, or 
both, of these issues  caused a flood  in the basement kitchen which  damaged her 
floor.
LV doesnt  accept that its decorator  is responsible  for either issue. It says the 
decorator had no reason  to switch off the boiler  to complete the redecoration  
particularly as it didnt  remove  the radiators. It spoke  with Miss Ps plumber  to gather 
more information  about the blocked sink and the flooding of the basement. It says the 
plumber couldnt  confirm that the sink was blocked by paint, as opposed  to another 
cause. And it says the plumber confirmed the basement had flooded in the past due 
to Miss Ps tenants switching of a pump  switch located in the kitchen. 
LV says Miss Ps plumber  confirmed  the basement flood would not be anything to do 
with either  the blocked sink or the boiler/heating  system. LV has also pointed  to 
photos which it says show that the floor was in the same condition  before any works 
took place  so it doesnt  agree any damage  has taken place due to this most  recent  
flood.
Ive thought carefully about these issues. Based on everything Ive seen,  I dont think  
I can reasonably conclude that LVs decorator caused either the blocked sink or the 
flood to the basement. So, I dont think it needs  to do anything  in respect of these 
issues.
Miss P has also complained that LVs decorator kept and lost a master  key to the 
property. Our investigator recommended that LV should pay £100 compensation for 
this, and LV agreed. I think this is reasonable.
delays 
It isnt in dispute that this claim has taken longer to complete than it ought to have 
done. LV has accepted that it caused around 12 weeks worth  of delays during the 
claim and has paid £300 compensation to reflect this.
Our investigator noted a further 12-week period of delay which she thought was 
caused by LV, between November 2018 and February 2019.  This was between  
Miss P asking for another site visit and it actually  taking  place.  So, based on the 
amount paid by LV to reflect one 12-week  delay,  she thought it ought to pay a further 
£300 for this delay.  
Ref: DRN38180358From what  Ive seen, LV and its agents  were  in regular communication during this 
period of time, so it seems the claim was still progressing. But I agree that 12 weeks 
is an unreasonably long time for a consumer  to wait for a site visit to be arranged, 
and I note that communication with Miss P about  her request for a site visit during 
this time was poor. So, I agree  that a further £300  compensation  would be fair and 
reasonable.
There have been  other  periods of delay  during  the claim. But from what Ive seen, 
these delays were not caused by LV. So, I dont think further compensation is 
warranted for these  periods. 
loss of rent
Miss P initially declined to make  a claim for loss of rent because  she felt her 
contractors could work around her tenants. But due to the length  of time the claim 
took she decided  to make a claim.
LV has accepted the claim, for certain  rooms, for 12 months from the date of loss  
the limit set out in Miss Ps policy. It has paid Miss P £6,320, which  it says covers  
rooms 4 and 7 up to the 12-month limit. Miss P feels loss of rent should  be repaid for 
many more rooms than LV has covered. She also feels loss of rent should be paid 
beyond the 12 months.  This is because she says the property  is still not habitable 
due to the issues caused by LVs decorator.  Shes  referred to the rules  covering 
HMO lettings to support  this.
There are nine rooms in Miss Ps HMO. Of these,  two were unoccupied in the five 
months leading  up to the fire (rooms 1 and 8), and three were occupied  both before 
the fire and throughout the life of the claim (rooms 3, 5 and 6). I think its fair that LV 
doesnt need to pay loss of rent for these rooms. 
This leaves  four rooms for me to consider;  rooms  2, 4, 7 and 9. LV has accepted  that 
loss of rent is due for rooms 4 and 7, leaving rooms 2 and 9 to be decided.  Ill first 
consider whether LV ought to pay loss of rent for rooms 2 and 9, up to the 12-month 
limit, before deciding whether the particular circumstances of the case  mean  it would 
be fair for loss of rent to be paid beyond the 12 months.
From what  Ive seen, room 2 was let continuously from July 2016 to August 2017 at 
which point it became vacant. The last time it became vacant  was in March  2016, 
where it took Miss P three months to arrange  a new tenant. So, based on that, I think 
its likely  Miss P could have found a new tenant  by November  2017, but for the fire. 
So, I think LV should cover loss of rent on room 2 from November 2017.
Room 9 appears to have  been let continuously  from June 2015  until the fire 
happened, at which point  it became unoccupied. And it has remained so since.  
Based on this I think loss of rent should be paid for room 9 from the date the tenant 
vacated. 
LV has argued  that some of Miss Ps tenants appear to have  occasionally  missed 
some rent payments. It says it will need  to consider  the average or mean non-
payment of rent when calculating any loss of rent due. I think  this is reasonable. 
Ref: DRN38180359Our investigator felt that LV should  pay loss of rent beyond  the 12-month  limit of the 
policy. She said Miss P couldnt have placed new tenants in the rooms until they had 
all been cleaned in November 2018.  Once this had been completed, she thought  
Miss P would have  been able to let the rooms, taking into account the HMO rules. 
So, she thought  loss of rent should be paid on six rooms  from the date of loss (or 
date of vacation if after)  until the date the works  were completed in November 2018.
From what  Ive seen, the bedrooms were supposed  to be cleaned by LVs agent, at 
the same  time as the communal  areas  in November  2017. Through no fault of 
Miss Ps, this didnt  happen, which meant  the bedrooms werent cleaned until the 
works took place around a year later.  The HMO  rules Ive seen also suggest that 
Miss P would be required to make  sure that any unit of living  accommodation (room) 
are in a clean condition at the beginning of a new letting.  Based on all of this, I agree 
that the rooms  were  uninhabitable/unlettable,  partly due to LVs error, for over 12 
months. 
Ive considered LVs argument that three of the rooms were  occupied throughout the 
duration. But while I accept this was the case,  the HMO rules refer to the requirement 
for a room  to be clean  at the beginning  of a new letting  rather  than mid-term. And in 
any case, I dont  think  the fact that existing tenants  decided not to move out means 
that their rooms werent, technically, uninhabitable.
 
So, I agree  that loss of rent should be paid on rooms  2, 4, 7 and 9, up until 
November 2018.  But I dont think it needs  to continue paying loss of rent beyond 
then, as any remaining  issues  wouldnt have affected Miss Ps ability  to let the 
property from then onward.
Miss Ps policy also includes cover for costs incurred by Miss P in utilising her 
accountants to make her loss of rent claim.  Miss P has demonstrated that she has 
incurred those costs.  And my finding that loss of rent should also cover rooms 2 and 
9 is also based,  in part, on the information  from Miss Ps accountant. So, I think LV 
should cover  these costs,  in line with the terms of the policy.
Miss P has complained  that LVs failure to pay her loss of rent claim sooner has 
caused her to fall into financial difficulties. Shes sent in copies  of her bank 
statements to demonstrate her reliance  on credit.
Looking at the information Miss P has provided,  its clear shes  is in a difficult 
financial situation, and I sympathise. But I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
issues shes experienced have been caused  by the actions of LV. I appreciate that if 
the loss of rent claim been  paid sooner, Miss P would have had additional funds. But 
I think it was reasonable  for LV to ask for evidence to support the loss of rent claim,  
before agreeing to pay anything. And although  Im recommending an increase to the 
amount to be paid,  Ive based this on information  Miss P has only provided recently. 
So, I dont think LV has acted unfairly  by not paying further additional loss of rent 
payments before now.
I said I was intending  to direct LV to pay Miss P an amount  to cover her redecoration costs  
for:
Cleaning, repainting and sealing the bathrooms.
Cleaning and repainting the areas  behind the radiators.
Ref: DRN381803510Sanding, cleaning and repainting the areas  of woodwork painted  in the wrong  paint  
and painting the balustrade(s).
Cleaning and repainting the area in the basement.
Repainting the front door.
Cleaning the fire extinguishers.
I said the payment  covering the above  should  be calculated  based on the amount it would 
cost Miss P to have the works done, not the amount it would cost LV.
I also said that LV should:
Pay Miss P £600 for the distress and inconvenience in addition to the £300 already  
paid.
Pay Miss P £100 for the lost key.
Pay loss of rent on rooms 4, 7 and 9 from the date they were vacated  to 
November 2018.
Pay loss of rent on room 2 from November 2017  to November 2018.
Reimburse any accountants costs Miss P can demonstrate she has incurred in 
preparing her claim for loss of rent, plus 8% simple  interest to compensate her for 
being deprived of this money.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision.
LV accepted my provisional decision  and said it didnt  have  any further comments or 
evidence for me to consider.  
Miss P didnt agree. She didnt feel my findings about her claim for loss of rent were  fair. To 
summarise, she said:
While  the property  may have been habitable after November 2018  it certainly  wasnt  
lettable. She feels its unrealistic to expect a tenant to move into a room that still 
required decoration  works as they would need to store  their furniture in the centre of 
the room which  isnt practical.  She also highlighted that the works  would  likely  cause  
a lot of dust.
She feels further loss of rent should  be awarded  to cover the time it will take for the 
remaining works to be completed.
She feels rooms 1 and 8 should  also be covered as the nature of business for HMOs  
is that rooms frequently become vacant but can be quickly refilled. The reason they 
remained uninhabited  for so long is because  of the fire and LVs subsequent poor 
redecorations.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, as well as the new comments  and 
evidence sent in response to my provisional decision. 
Miss P argues that the bedrooms remained in an unlettable  state  beyond  November 2018  
because they required further redecoration.  Shes  provided photos of furnished rooms  in one 
Ref: DRN381803511of her properties to illustrate how difficult it would be for works to be carried  out around a 
tenant. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I accept that until the rooms were properly cleaned  
in November 2018, they werent in habitable or lettable condition. But I dont  agree  that 
areas of woodwork being painted in the wrong  finish would render a room  unlettable  taking 
into account the HMO rules. I also havent  seen anything to suggest that Miss P attempted to 
re-let these rooms  at any point during the claim  or that she was unable  to do so because of 
the condition of the rooms. So, based  on everything Ive seen,  I think  LV only needs to cover 
loss of rent up to November 2018.
In terms of Miss Ps arguments about the disruption the remaining remedial works will cause 
to her tenants (or would  have caused to prospective  new tenants), its worth noting  that 
when she first made the claim, she was happy for her decorator  to work around  her tenants 
without making a loss of rent claim. So, Miss P clearly felt that works  could be completed 
without anyone needing to move out. And at that stage, the works required were much  more 
significant than they are now.  
It also seems  unlikely  to me that sanding and repainting the woodwork in a bedroom  would  
take longer than a few days, per room, at the most. So, aside from some minor disruption, I 
cant see why the remaining  works   in the bedrooms  would  require tenants  to move out. 
That being  said,  if Miss P can evidence  that she suffers a further loss of rent for any of the 
bedrooms, due solely to the required works taking place, LV should  cover this loss of rent 
under the policy.  
Miss P has also argued that any payment for loss of rent should also cover rooms  1 and 8. 
Although neither room had a tenant  in at the time of the fire, Miss P says if it werent for the 
fire, she could have found new tenants.
The loss of rent cover  in Miss Ps policy states:
In the event of Damage  to the Property used by the Insured for the purposes of the 
Business carried on by the Insured  at the Premises  during the Period  of Insurance  
from the Insured  Perils under Section 1 resulting in loss of Rent Receivable  the 
Insurer will indemnify the Insured  in respect  of the amount  of the loss of Rent 
Receivable provided  that
a) such Damage  is covered under Section 1 of this Policy and that liability shall be 
admitted or payment  made therefore  or
b) payment would have been  made or liability  admitted but for the operation of a 
proviso in the insurance excluding liability for losses below  a specified amount
The liability  of the Insurer under this Section shall not exceed  in respect of any item 
its Sum Insured or Limit stated in
this Policy or the Schedule at the time of the event
The policy defines  Rent Receivable  as:
The money paid or payable to the Insured by Tenants for accommodation and 
services provided in the course of the Business at the Premises
And it defines tenants as:
Ref: DRN381803512The tenant or lessee(s) of any Building
So, by strict interpretation of the policy, there  can only be a successful claim for loss of rent 
when there  has been  a loss of Rent Receivable, which in turn requires there to have been  
a tenant. However, I am also able to depart from the terms and conditions of the policy if I 
believe it is fair and reasonable to do so  which I did in my provisional decision with regard  
to room 2.
As with rooms 1 and 8, room 2 didnt  have a tenant  in it at the time of the fire. But it had 
been rented  out up until very soon  before  it, and the last time room  2 became vacant, Miss P 
had managed to find a new tenant  within a relatively short space of time. So, although  there 
wasnt a tenant  in room 2 at the time of the fire, given the recent rental history I thought, on 
balance, it was likely that Miss P would have secured a new tenant  for this room  reasonably  
quickly, were it not for the fire. Given this, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for LV to 
pay loss of rent on room  2 from November 2017 to November 2018  and LV accepted this.
The situation  with rooms 1 and 8 is different.  Neither room had been rented  out for at least 
six months prior to the fire and I havent  seen  anything  to suggest Miss P was actively  
seeking to change this. I also understand that room 1 was being used as a storage space. 
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think it would be in line with the policy terms, or 
fair and reasonable, to require LV to cover loss of rent for rooms 1 and 8.
my final decision
For the reasons  I've explained above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ps 
complaint in part. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited should pay Miss P an amount to cover her 
redecoration costs  for the below works. This amount should  be calculated  based on the 
amount it will cost Miss P to have the works  completed:
Cleaning, repainting and sealing the bathrooms.
Cleaning and repainting the areas  behind the radiators.
Sanding, cleaning and repainting the areas  of woodwork painted  in the wrong  paint  
and painting the balustrade(s).
Cleaning and repainting the area in the basement.
Repainting the front door.
Cleaning the fire extinguishers
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited should also:
Pay Miss P £600 for the distress and inconvenience in addition to the £300 already  
paid.
Pay Miss P £100 for the lost key.
Pay loss of rent on rooms 4, 7 and 9 from the date they were vacated  to 
November 2018. 
Pay loss of rent on room 2 from November 2017  to November 2018.
If Miss P can evidence a further loss of rent, in any of the rooms,  due to the required 
remedial works taking place, LV should  also cover this.
Ref: DRN381803513Reimburse any accountants costs Miss P can demonstrate she has incurred in 
preparing her claim for loss of rent, plus 8% simple  interest* to compensate  her for 
being deprived of this money.
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  
& Customs to take off income  tax from any interest due to Miss P, it should  tell her how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2020
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3818035