K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1996 Miss P bought  PPI in one of the banks branches at the same  time as she applied for 
a mortgage. The policy gave her protection against  accident, sickness and unemployment. 
She paid a monthly amount  for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain  why.
On Miss Ps mortgage application form she indicated that she wanted to take out PPI, 
and signed separately to confirm  this. The option to decline  the cover  was set out with 
equal prominence.  She then completed and signed a separate  PPI application form, 
answering a number of eligibility questions and deciding what  level of benefit she 
wanted. This form also set out the cost of the PPI separately. Miss P told us she felt 
pressured to take out the PPI and Ive thought carefully  about this, but I cant  find any 
other evidence to support what she recalls. 
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear to Miss P that the PPI was optional, and she agreed 
to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss P, and I know Miss P feels  strongly that she didnt 
need it. But on balance  I think  it seems to have been right for her based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time.  She was entitled to six months full pay and six 
months half pay if she was sick and would have received  redundancy pay. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition  to her work benefits  and for up to 12 months for all 
accident, sickness and unemployment  claims.  It could  have  been  useful if she had extra 
costs after had an accident or due to long-term  sickness. And it would have allowed her 
to protect  any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial security. 
Miss P had £15,000  in savings at the time of the sale, but a substantial amount of this 
was used for things  related to her house  purchase  and move. Shes told us after moving 
she was left with about  £3,000. The PPI would have  allowed her to use these remaining 
savings to cover other living costs  whilst  not working, or to keep them intact for her future 
needs. Miss P was borrowing quite a large  sum over a long period,  secured on her 
home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments could have been serious for 
her. Overall,  I think  the PPI would have been  useful if Miss P was sick, had an accident 
or lost her job.
Ref: DRN37387022Its possible  Halifax didnt give Miss P all the information she needed before she decided  
to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the PPI application form however, and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And she doesnt appear  to have been 
affected by any of the main  exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions  or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I 
dont think there was any information  missing  that wouldve  changed her decision.
Ive considered all of Miss Ps comments carefully,  including her most  recent  points about 
the missing information  in banks final response  letter and her financial history, but for the 
reasons set out above they dont change my conclusion. 
It follows I dont think Miss P has lost out because of any problems with this sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3738702