K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about how Trinity Lane Insurance  Company Ltd have handled his 
motor insurance claim. Hes unhappy  about delays and that all the damage  to his car hasnt  
been repaired.
background
Mr R was involved in a road traffic accident in June  2018, which was his fault.  He wanted his 
car repaired by his chosen garage  - a non-approved repairer (NAR) - but the estimated costs 
were too high. Because of this, Trinity Lane  used an approved  repairer (AR). Mr R has 
complained that:
There were  delays  in confirming whether the repair  estimate provided by his NAR 
was acceptable  or not, which delayed the inspection of his car by the AR.
His car wasnt driveable after the accident,  but the engineer said it was and he was 
asked to drive it to the AR.
The courtesy car he was provided  with was not a like for like car.
Trinity Lane wont authorise repairs to all of the damage to the car.
Our adjudicator found that Trinity Lane had acted reasonably.  She agreed thered been  
some delays, but considered the reduction  in the policy excess from £250 to £100  was 
reasonable compensation for this. She felt it was reasonable for Trinity Lane to rely on the 
opinion of the engineer  who assessed the car as to whether it was driveable or not, but 
theyd acted reasonably by arranging for the car to be recovered given Mr Rs concerns. 
She also felt it was reasonable for Trinity Lane  to rely upon the engineers opinion as to what 
damage was caused by the accident, and to authorise repairs  for this damage only.  In order  
for the engineer to complete the diagnostic tests they replaced the battery and two tyres on 
the car, and Mr R hasnt  been charged for these. The adjudicator also found that Mr R had 
been provided with a courtesy car in line with the terms of his policy.  Because of this, she 
didnt feel that Trinity Land needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicator.  Hes said that the damage  to the tyres and battery 
were caused  by the accident and that it was inconvenient for him to be without his car for the 
time when  a courtesy car wasnt provided. Hes also provided a diagnostic  check  which says 
a communication fault with the canbus  system  we believe  was caused in a recent  collision 
due to the ECU being situated  in the NSF footwell.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The terms of Mr Rs insurance policy say that a courtesy  car may be available while  his car 
was being repaired  by an AR. This means  that, because Mr R wanted  his car repaired by an 
NAR, a courtesy car wouldnt be provided. The courtesy  car was only provided once the car 
was being repaired  by an AR. I appreciate  Mr R found being without a car inconvenient, but I 
cant say that Trinity Lane  did anything wrong  by only providing  a courtesy car at the point 
Mr R was entitled to one under his insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN30217712Its not disputed  there  was a delay in confirming that the estimate from the NAR wasnt 
acceptable as it was too high, which delayed the inspection of the car by an engineer. But I 
think that the £150 reduction in the policy excess payable is reasonable compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to Mr R because  of this delay. I also think that Trinity Lane acted 
reasonably by arranging for Mr Rs car to be recovered, even  though the engineer  said it 
was driveable.
Ive seen the estimate from the NAR, and this includes a substantial  amount for the storage 
of Mr Rs car, even though the car was at Mr Rs home and not in storage. Trinity Lane didnt 
accept this estimate and arranged  for an engineer to assess  the damage to the car. There  is 
some dispute between the NAR  estimate  and the engineers assessment as to what  damage 
was directly caused by the accident.  Trinity Lane  have only repaired what  the engineer 
considers to be accident related - damage  to the bodywork  while  Mr R believes that the 
damage to the cars electronic systems  was also caused by the accident. 
The diagnostic check Mr R provided  as part of his comments  on the adjudicators  view has 
been sent to the engineer  for his opinion.  The engineer doesnt agree that the impact was so 
great that it couldve damaged the ECU as the ECU is mounted  in a way to absorb impact. 
The engineer also feels that the ECU is operating  however  is not communicating with some 
electrical items which points to those items  being the cause rather than a faulty ECU. 
I would expect Trinity Lane to get a professional opinion  on the level of damage caused by 
the accident. Mr Rs car was inspected by an engineer for the accident damage. Ive read 
the engineers  opinion  and Im persuaded that this should be relied upon  theres  nothing  in 
this report thats so obviously wrong that it throws doubt on the engineers opinion.
I would also expect Trinity Lane  to deal with any challenges  to this opinion.  The engineer 
has considered  the diagnostic  check provided by Mr R, and explained why this doesnt  
change his opinion.  Again Im persuaded by the engineers explanation as to why the ECU 
wasnt damaged  from the incident Mr R is claiming  for. Because of this, and while  I 
appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr R, I think its fair that Trinity Lane relied on the 
engineers opinion and comments on the diagnostic check, and havent approved any further 
repairs. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Trinity Lane 
Insurance Company Ltd and I wont be asking them to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3021771