K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the failure of HSBC UK Bank Plc to advise them  on mortgage 
protection policies  when  they took out their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 2014 with HSBC. Mrs S is very unwell and feels  that 
when she took out the mortgage the HSBC adviser  should have discussed mortgage 
protection policies  but didnt. HSBC says that its adviser offered to look at whether  mortgage 
protection or critical  illness cover was suitable. But HSBC said that Mr and Mrs S didnt  wish 
to discuss this at the time and they were asked to have  a look at what  over was in place and 
make contact with the HSBC adviser  later.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she didnt believe 
that HSBC had done anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed saying in summary that there 
was no evidence such as their signatures  to confirm this protection  insurance  was discussed 
with them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with HSBC  and felt that they have been let down by 
HSBC not looking  at their needs and recommending a financial product that would have 
given them some protection given Mrs Ss present illness.
I have access to a fact find that appears to have  been completed  on Mr and Mrs S by a 
HSBC adviser who is described as a mortgage and protection manager in 2014. It records 
that both Mr and Mrs S had income  protection policies but neither had life cover or critical 
illness cover.  Shortly afterwards HSBC prepared a Financial  Planning  Report dated 10 
October 2014. At page  4 it records  that there was no detailed review of the Mr and Mrs Ss 
requirements for protecting  you and your family and so no recommendation made. The 
adviser records the reason for that at page  8 and 9 of the report  namely that Mr and Mrs S 
declined to review  this as they intended  to take out such  cover through  employee related 
schemes with their respective employers in financial services.
Mr and Mrs S say that they didnt sign the Financial  Planning Report.  I havent  seen a signed 
copy. But HSBC  has provided me with a document signed and dated on 13 October 2014 by 
Mr and Mrs S to say that they had received the Financial Planning Report.  I have also a 
document called  an interview history which records that the HSBC  adviser met Mr and Mrs S 
on two occasions  on 3 October  2014 and again on 13 October 2014. So it looks  like the fact 
find was done  on 3 October  and the Financial  Planning Report prepared on 10 October and 
presented to Mr and Mrs S personally  on 13 October.
The evidence strongly points to the HSBC adviser offering to look at critical illness and life 
cover and income protection but this was declined by Mr and Mrs S which  was their choice. I 
appreciate that one of the reasons recorded  for Mr and Mrs S declining  this advice - that Mr 
S might be able to get such benefits through  an employee scheme - was incorrect but the 
Ref: DRN31915142report urges Mr and Mrs S to find out what cover they had and return  to the HSBC adviser to 
review. 
My view is that HSBC acted appropriately in this case by offering to look at Mr and Mrs Ss 
requirements and asking them to review their cover and return for further  advice. Although 
Mr and Mrs S cant recall  this discussion, the evidence suggests that it was discussed  and 
Mr and Mrs S were  given the summary  of HSBCs recommendations on this when presented  
with the Financial Planning Report  on 13 October 2014. It was then a matter for Mr and Mrs 
S to check what policies they had in place and return to HSBC  if they required further advice. 
So, given that, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3191514