K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  (Prudential) provided  
misleading information about the charges that applied to his pension  plan. He said that the 
Additional Investment Charge (AIC)  was initially shown as 0% but it's now 0.17%. Prudential 
says it hasnt been increased but simply presented differently. Mr B wants  confirmation  of what 
the charges actually are and compensation for the misleading information hes been given.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 5 December 2019  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  in part 
and invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they wished to make. 
In summary  I said that I didnt think Prudential had increased its charges on Mr Bs pension  
and I accepted that it had simply changed the way it represented the Additional Investment 
Charge (AIC) on that particular fund. But I did think Prudential hadnt explained the change 
clearly and that the inaccurate information it provided did have some impact on Mr B which  
caused him some degree of distress  and inconvenience. 
I said that Prudential  should pay Mr B £200  for that distress and inconvenience.
Prudential didnt add any further comments for me to consider and Mr B said he accepted 
the provisional decision. He did note that Prudential  had conveyed the information about  the 
change to financial advisers and suggested that if it had been transparent in advising all of 
its (relevant) customers then this situation  wouldnt  have arisen.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision.
I note Mr Bs comments about Prudential not providing information about the change  to its 
customers. As I said in my provisional decision it was this lack of communication  and clarity 
that I think caused him some distress and inconvenience   for which Ive said he should be 
compensated. 
But it isnt for this service  to comment on Prudentials  practices  here or to tell it how it should  
communicate with its customers. Thats a matter  for Prudential to decide on going  forward.   
Ref: DRN32106152my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint against  The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited.
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited should  pay Mr B £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32106153copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) provided misleading 
information about the charges that applied  to his pension plan. He said that the Additional Investment 
Charge (AIC) was initially  shown as 0% but it's now 0.17%. Prudential  says it hasnt been increased 
but simply presented  differently. Mr B wants confirmation of what  the charges actually are and 
compensation for the misleading information hes been given.
background
Mr B transferred the benefits  from his preserved Final Salary Pension Scheme to a pension plan with 
Prudential in February  2017.  Mr B has confirmed that he was satisfied with the advice to transfer, the 
performance of the fund and the service provided  by Prudential.
When Mr B transferred into the new plan the charges were disclosed as:
Yearly charge  0.65%
Product charge 0.30%
Additional investment Charge 0.00%
Prudential sent Mr B an annual benefit statement in February 2018.  This disclosed the AIC as being  0%.
In March 2018  Prudential says it changed  the way it recorded investment expenses in illustrations, 
including those for Mr Bs underlying investment.  From that point,  illustrations and fund fact sheets would  
disclose a combination of the Annual Management  Charge (AMC) and the AIC that applied to funds.
Between September and October 2018  when looking at Prudentials website  Mr B noticed that in 
the fund fact sheet the AIC was showing  as 0.17% and not nil, as previously  disclosed by Prudential.
So Mr B complained to Prudential. He said he didnt think the charges  that applied to his plan had 
been fully disclosed by Prudential  and it seemed the charges were  now higher  than when hed taken  
out his pension.  In addition he complained that it had been difficult  for him to register his complaint.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt increased the charges on the pension - it had 
simply presented them  differently (more transparently) as theyd always been included in the 
expected growth rates. It said there would be no monetary impact on Mr B as a result of what  it called 
changes in the presentation of the charges.
But Mr B remained unhappy  with this response so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the matter and thought that Prudential had not increased its charges during  
2018 but had simply increased the transparency of the charging structure to more  clearly illustrate the 
underlying charges within each fund.  
He noted that Mr B had received his annual statement in February 2018 prior to the changes  taking  
place in March 2018, but was able to see the separate AIC when he looked at the updated on-line  
information for his fund after that time. The adjudicator  said the complaint  should not be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree,  making the following points in response:
Prudential said it had combined  its AMC and AIC expenses to show as one on its illustrations 
and fund fact sheets. But Mr B had always  received  annual statements which stated the total 
yearly charge  as being  0.65%. 
The statement he received in February  2019  said the total yearly  charge was 0.82%. He believed 
this showed how Prudential had misled him over the change in its AIC.
Ref: DRN32106154In the original  illustration  he received Mr B said the AIC was 0%. And he says theres  no 
suggestion  until he raised  his complaint  that the AIC hadnt remained at 0%. As wed told him 
that Prudential hadnt increased its charges hed had to assume that an AIC of 0.17% existed 
since the inception of his plan  despite it not being noted.  
The adjudicator said he thought  that the charges on Mr Bs plan hadnt  increased from 2018, but 
Prudential had increased the transparency of reporting its charges.  He confirmed  to 
Mr B that prior to March 2018, the 0.17% charge  had been built into the unit price of the fund. But 
Mr B still disagreed as he felt that, if the charge of 0.17% had been built into the unit price, this was 
inaccurate  disclosure and overcharging. 
Mr B asked for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman so its been passed to me for a review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I intend to partially  uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr B has complained that an AIC which was shown as 0% in his original documentation has  
following changes  in the way Prudential  presents its charges  become a charge of 0.17%. 
He says as it wasnt shown originally it must be a newly  introduced additional  expense, or if it was 
included elsewhere which he wasnt aware of hes been misled over the total charges applicable to 
the plan.
Prudential however  says there  hasnt been an increase  to the plans  charges. It says its listed this 
charge individually  now instead  of it being part of the unit price  which it always  was. It says this is 
simply a question of being more transparent with its charges.    
Ive seen the information that Prudential sent to financial  advisers in September 2018 which confirmed  
some  updates to Prudential Retirement Account.
It went on to clarify  that Weve changed how we show investment expenses  in our illustrations for 
any PruFund  and With-Profits. The illustrations now show a combination  of the Annual Management 
Charge (AMC) and the additional investment expenses that apply  to our funds. Theres  no change to 
the overall returns customers have received and continue to receive as a result of this expense 
disclosure. The expenses have always been included  in our ERG calculations for the PruFund range  
and With-Profit  bonus  rates this is a presentational  change  only.  
So I think Prudential  did change  the way it represented the charges  and did try to explain  this. But this 
information wasnt  sent to Mr B, so Ive looked very carefully at the information that was available to 
Mr B that enabled him to decide whether or not he was made aware of the AIC change. 
Ive looked at the fund factsheet from November 2017  which shows the fund charges to be an AMC  of 
0.65% with no further  costs.  And Ive compared this with the factsheet from 2018 which  noted the 
fund charges as an AMC of 0.65% with further costs of 0.17% giving a yearly total of 0.82%. 
In addition Ive looked at the annual statement Mr B received in February  2019.  It set out investment 
charges including  a yearly  investment charge of 0.65% and AIC of 0.17% giving a total yearly 
investment charge of 0.82%. Whereas the statement from the previous year  a month before 
Prudential says it changed  the presentation  of the charges  referred  to a yearly investment charge  of 
0.65% with no AIC, so a total of 0.65%. 
So based on this information, I can understand why Mr B might assume that the total charges had 
been increased  with the addition  of a 0.17% AIC. 
Ref: DRN32106155Prudential hasnt been able to provide any evidence  to show that this change was explained  to Mr B 
in advance of its decision  to improve  the transparency of its charges.  So it seems reasonable  to me, 
in the absence of an explanation, that Mr B would assume that the AIC had increased by 0.17% and 
therefore that the total charges had increased by that amount.  
Prudential says the charge  was there all along and was reflected within  the unit price. But based on 
the documents Ive seen  that isnt clear  and its not now practical to prove that by comparing  the unit 
price before and after the changes, as other factors  would  also have affected the unit price. So I dont 
think Prudential has provided Mr B with accurate information about the charges applicable to his plan. 
It told him at the outset that the AIC was 0% - while  it appears it should have said it was 0.17%, even 
though this had previously been contained within the unit price.
Ive gone on to consider what I think Mr B would  have  done at the outset if hed been aware that there 
was an AIC of 0.17% incorporated within the overall  charge. And I think, on balance, that it was 
unlikely to have affected Mr Bs decision  to take out the plan. Prudential  has made the point that the 
illustrated returns took into account all applicable charges,  and Mr B was clearly happy  with this or he 
wouldnt have started the plan to begin with.
Mr Bs also confirmed  hes happy with the fund performance and Prudentials service, along with 
receiving some additional benefit from being a Prudential staff member. So I think its unlikely  that, 
had the charges been  set out more transparently to begin with, this would have changed his decision 
about the investment. 
But I do think  that its reasonable to say that finding out hed been given inaccurate information about 
the AIC has caused him some level of upset. The impact on Mr B is that hes still unsure about 
whether the charge has been recently introduced or just wasnt  explained from the outset,  and hes 
had to bring his complaint  to us to try and obtain a definitive  answer.  
And from my reading of the complaint and the information provided  by Prudential, I dont think its 
been clear  exactly how the AIC was applied.
Ive also taken  into account that Mr B said hed found it difficult to contact the complaint team at 
Prudential and that Prudential  has accepted that departments  phone number isnt visible. So I think 
Prudential should pay Mr B £200 for the overall distress  and inconvenience hes suffered here.
summary
Overall, whilst Prudential hasnt explained whats happened  here particularly well, I dont think, on 
balance, that it has increased its charges by 0.17% on the fund. Prudential  has been clear in saying 
that the charges have  not been increased, and that the AIC has always been built into the unit price. 
I therefore  think that its reasonable to accept that the AIC isnt a new or increased charge.  But I do 
think Mr B has been  caused  some upset here  and I dont think  Prudential has explained  the 
situation very well.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold, in part, Mr Bs complaint against The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.
My provisional  decision  is that The Prudential  Assurance Company  Limited should pay Mr B £200.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3210615