K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1992. He paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
Unfortunately there arent any notes available of the meeting, and understandably  
Mr C might not recall it clearly after so long.  There are also no documents available  
to me from the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising considering  the sale took 
place over 25 years ago. So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with 
Mr C. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint for this reason, Id have to think that Mr Cs 
account was more likely than that of Halifax. But as these events happened  so long 
ago and as theres  no documentary  evidence  to support either  partys  position, I have 
to conclude that Mr Cs account is only as likely not more  likely. So, on balance 
I cannot safely conclude  that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that Mr C 
wasnt given a choice  to take PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr C, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. 
As well as making a suitable recommendation, Halifax had to give Mr C good enough 
information about the PPI so that he could decide if he wanted to take the policy.
I havent seen  the paperwork completed at the point of sale,  so Ive assumed that some 
of the information Halifax  gave Mr C couldve been  better.  For example Halifax  likely 
couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it had, I think  Mr C 
would still have bought it. 
Its also possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But Mr C 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments,  including what hes said about  his existing means 
for making  his repayments. This PPI policy would have paid out for up to 12 months  so I   
Ref: DRN39655672still think that Mr C had a need for it and the recommendation to take PPI was suitable as it 
would have paid out for longer than Mr Cs sick pay entitlement.
Mr C also told us that he had significant  other means including  savings from the sale of a 
property and premium  bonds.  Whilst no evidence has been provided of these other  means 
and this is understandable given the time thats  passed, the PPI policy would  have paid out 
in addition to these existing means.  
Having the PPI policy would also have allowed Mr C the option  of not needing  to use his 
existing means to make his mortgage repayments. Ive also kept in mind  that Mr C was 
borrowing a relatively  considerable amount of money but chose to borrow and pay interest 
on the borrowing  rather than using his existing means he says he had. This suggests that 
Mr C may possibly  have had a specific use in mind  for his other means that wasnt for 
making his mortgage  repayments. 
Mr C was also taking on a long term and significant  financial  commitment  and he was solely 
responsible for making the repayments.  Given the potential consequences if Mr C wasnt  
able to keep up with his repayments,  I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was 
suitable as it could have protected his financial  position if he was to experience  an 
unexpected change in circumstances such as being made unemployed or  being unwell and 
being unable  to work.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3965567