K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a Platinum  Added Value Account (PAVA)  by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mr A held a bank account with Lloyds from before 2001. His first account(s) did not have a 
fee.
He took out a Gold Added Value  Account (GAVA) in March 2006  which  incurred a monthly 
fee.
Mr A upgraded to a Platinum Added Value Account (PAVA) in July 2007 which also incurred 
a monthly fee.
Lloyds has said that the GAVA was mis-sold and paid Mr A redress  as a result. But Lloyds 
has said that the PAVA was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr As complaint and decided that Lloyds response  was fair and 
reasonable. Mr A disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
Mr A says the PAVA was mis-sold. In my view,  I dont  agree and Ill explain why.
Mr A took out the PAVA in July 2007. 
At that time I think its more likely than not that Mr A was aware  he could have an account 
with no fee at any time as hed had one without a fee for many years, and they have always  
been openly available from many banks  and financial institutions. 
I also think that in July 2007 Mr A was aware  he could get other  fee paying  bank accounts  
with overdraft facilities as by then hed had a GAVA with an overdraft facility for over a year. 
So I think Mr A knew  the PAVA was optional and he chose to take out the PAVA based on 
Lloyds advice and information.
As Lloyds  advised  Mr A to take out the PAVA  it needed to not only provide him with sufficient 
information about the PAVA to make  an informed choice. It also needed to take adequate  
steps to ensure that the PAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr As circumstances.
The PAVA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel  insurance, car 
breakdown cover (including home  start and relay), mobile phone insurance,  sentinel card 
protection, commission free travel money,  access to UK airport  lounges,  a free overdraft of 
up to £250, and higher credit rates for the current account. 
Ref: DRN36982582I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mr A but I think he would have 
been interested in and eligible for these benefits.  I say this because he had a car and a 
mobile phone,  and he says he was interested in a better overdraft.
Mr A used the car breakdown service (including home start)  extensively,  registered for the 
mobile phone insurance,  and benefitted from the overdraft  facility. In later years Lloyds has 
provided evidence  that Mr A travelled  abroad.  He could have closed the PAVA  at any time, 
but he hasnt done for many years. And the fact that he hasnt used all the benefits has been 
a matter of choice for him.
He says his main complaint is that he upgraded the account to a PAVA as he was told it was 
the only way to increase his overdraft and that he would get special deals and loans  which 
he says he didnt. I dont  doubt his honest recollections, but I think  he is mistaken. I think  its 
more likely than not that he was told the PAVA overdraft  facility was better than the GAVA  (it 
was significantly so) and it was a good  way to increase his overdraft facility due to the other 
additional benefits available that Ive mentioned above. And for the reasons given above I 
think Mr A found the PAVA attractive  and he chose to take it out.
So in my view Lloyds  advice to Mr A to take out the PAVA was suitable. And there was no 
information that he didnt receive that would likely have put him off it. So I dont  think  Mr A 
lost out by taking  out the PAVA or through anything Lloyds  may have done wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3698258