K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy at the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has settled his claim 
under his buildings insurance policy following a fire at his property in April 2017.
background
The substantive claim for the fire damage  has been  settled by RSA.  The matters  under 
dispute relate to the cleaning of items of clothing  and soft furnishings which were affected by 
smoke.
RSAs loss adjustors  appointed a cleaning company (J) to dry clean or launder the items. 
An inventory  was carried out noting  any pre-existing damage, and the items were  removed 
from the property in May 2017.The cleaned  items  were stored  at Js premises while the 
restoration works at Mr Ws property were completed. But when they were returned  in 
September 2017 Mr W wasnt satisfied. The packaging was soiled with bird faeces, some 
items were damaged, some retained  deodoriser powder residue and the smell of smoke  
hadnt been fully eradicated.
RSA offered to get the items re-cleaned and to repair 26 damaged items, but Mr W thought 
everything needed to be replaced. So he wanted  a cash settlement of about £30,000. RSA 
said replacement only applies when items are beyond repair which  wasnt the case  here. So 
in January 2018 RSA paid Mr W £1,000  so he could get the items cleaned  and repaired 
himself. Plus it paid £200 in respect of the delay. Mr W didnt think this was enough. 
Our investigator initially agreed RSA should pay Mr W a cash settlement.  But after 
considering RSAs position  further she thought its offer was fair. As agreement  couldnt be 
reached its come to me to make a decision.  
Id like to thank both parties for their patience while this matter  has been under investigation.
my initial provisional decision
In my first provisional decision  I explained why I thought RSA should  do more  to resolve
Mr Ws complaint.  I said the following in summary:
As the items being  claimed for hadnt  been destroyed  and werent new,  replacement  
or a cash  settlement  wasnt  reasonable;
Mr W wasnt willing to let J re-clean the items  so hed been given a cash  sum to get 
the work  done  himself;
Its likely  Mr Ws local dry cleaners would charge more  than RSA would pay its 
contractors. So it should reimburse  for Mr W for these cleaning costs,  on production 
of invoices, deducting the £1,000 originally paid.
And RSA should pay Mr W an additional  £400  (so £600 in total) for the delays and 
inconvenience of the items being returned in dirty packaging.
Both parties  responded to the first provisional  decision.
RSA said in summary:
Mr W should have given it the  opportunity to put things right;
the policy allows for replacement, but its the insurers decision whether  to repair  or 
replace. And this only applies  if the items are damaged beyond economic repair;
Ref: DRN36716242the representative from Js opinion about the smell of smoke  was more persuasive  
than the opinion of S (who Mr W referred to as an expert);
under  the policy terms for a cash settlement its only obliged to pay what its own 
contractors would  charge, which it did by paying  £1,000, although its willing to 
consider increasing  this on production  of invoices;
there was no delay in laundering the items  but they couldnt  be returned until further 
restoration works were completed at the property. The subsequent delays were down 
to Mr W.
Mr W made no attempt to mitigate  his own loss by leaving the items in the soiled 
packaging;
no more compensation is warranted
Mr W said in summary:
he still wanted items replaced or a cash settlement  which would cover this, even 
though they werent  new;
attempting a re-clean  is pointless - its 18 months since  the fire so the smell of smoke 
is too ingrained;
he shouldnt be forced to use same company which failed the first time;
weve overlooked  evidence from an expert who confirmed the strong  smell of 
smoke;
both quotes  for re-cleaning are more than £3,000 proving £1,000 was inadequate
even if the 26 damaged  items  are repaired  they will likely still smell of smoke;
his son has outgrown his clothes (which  Mr W valued at just over £3,300) so theres  
no point re-cleaning  them as theyve  had to be replaced;
even though RSA didnt know about  his wifes particular aversion to the smell of 
smoke, further compensation  is still appropriate as theyve had a terrible experience.
my second  provisional decision
In my second provisional decision, I explained  why Id slightly changed my mind. I said in 
summary,  
Mr Ws policy terms mean the decision  whether to settle  a claim by way of a repair (in 
this case, clean) or replacement is taken by RSA. So not by, or in conjunction with 
Mr W or any of the other parties involved in the claim. And RSA had decided the 
items could  be repaired  (cleaned). This is a decision its entitled to make;
I wasnt persuaded the items  were  beyond economic repair. They  werent new at the 
time of the fire, and some  had pre-existing damage;
Theres a difference  of opinion about  whether the items retain a strong smell of 
smoke, and its subjective;
the items  shouldnt  have been  returned in soiled packaging;
although Mr W had lost faith in J, he should have agreed to let J re-clean the items 
straight away;
if re-cleaning failed  to remove the odour Mr W would have a stronger case for an 
alternative settlement;
Storing the items in the packaging  for so long is likely to have ingrained  the odour 
further, so Mr W hadnt mitigated his own loss;
The two alternative  quotes provided  by Mr W were  both around  £3,000  suggesting 
£1,000 wasnt  sufficient;
Both firms  said dry cleaning isnt always effective at removing  odours  (and some  
items were dry clean only so alternative  cleaning wasnt  an option);
Ref: DRN36716243Its accepted children outgrow their clothes. Theyd  need  to have been replaced even 
if successfully cleaned.  So RSA isnt obliged to replace  Mr Ws sons clothes;
RSA should  reimburse Mr W for dry cleaning, professionally laundering or repairing 
any of the items, on production of a suitable invoice (not a quotation),  and after 
deducting the £1,000  already  paid;
RSA should  pay Mr W an additional  £200 (in addition  to the £200 already paid) for 
the poor service,  delays  and for his family  being  deprived of the majority of their 
wardrobe of clothes  for a substantial amount  of time. 
responses to second  provisional decision
Only Mr W responded to my second provisional  decision. He provided a recording of a two 
hour visit by D, a representative of the dry cleaning company J to Mr Ws property  in October 
2017. 
Mr W also said the following in summary:
He reiterated  why he felt it was unreasonable to expect him to trust J to re-clean the 
items, given the poor service;
D identified an eggy,  sulphurous odour 
The items werent collected  until 24 days after the fire;
The delay in returning the items to his home while the redecoration works were being 
completed was RSAs fault not his;
Hes had the items re-cleaned and the smoke odour  is still present, 
His son has been deprived of his clothes  for the period of almost two years  since the 
fire, regardless that hes now outgrown them;
The proposed  redress is not sufficient;
After responding  in writing, Mr W telephoned  to explain that due to the Christmas break he 
hadnt been able to get all 300 items  re-cleaned in the month he was given to respond to the 
second provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive carefully considered  the information  
provided by Mr W in response to the second provisional decision. And Ive looked  at 
everything already  provided by both parties  afresh. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome as in my second  provisional decision.  
Ive listened carefully  to the recording of the meeting, although  the quality isnt great, and its 
not always easy for someone who wasnt present  to follow whats  being discussed. I didnt 
hear Mr W inform  D the meeting was being recorded, which he probably should  have  done.  
Having done so, it didnt tell me anything to change my mind. D can be heard agreeing with 
Mrs W that an odour is detectable  when  the items are handled with wet hands, or when 
hands are washed  after touching them. But he says the odour was not discernible on normal  
inspection, which wouldnt involve wetting the items or handling them  with wet hands. He 
admitted he hadnt  noticed the bird lime on the packaging when returning the cleaned 
items. D explained they were carefully stored on pallets  on the mezzanine floor of a 
warehouse with roller doors, which is presumably how the birds gained access. 
Ref: DRN36716244In the meeting, as a way forward D proposed hed take a sample of items  away  for further 
tests. And he wanted to attempt to re-clean some  of the items to see if that would  
successfully remove the odour.  Mr W refused this and said he didnt want anyone  from J 
involved further. 
Mr W told D (who represents  J, not RSA)  if he didnt  get a satisfactory  outcome,  hed taken 
legal advice to bring court  proceedings against  RSA. To assess the damage  he intended 
commissioning an independent  report and inventory of all the items, at his own expense. I 
dont know if Mr W did this, but he hasnt  provided this service  with such  a report. But I dont 
think its necessary to decide this case.  
I understand Mr Ws dissatisfaction  at the way his possessions were cleaned  and returned, 
on top of the impact  of the fire itself. Even though they werent new,  some items had 
sentimental value  and he thought they hadnt been  looked after carefully. But I think  it was 
unreasonable to refuse Ds offer. A speedy  attempt at re-cleaning would have minimised  the 
time the items were stored in the packaging rather than exposed  to the air. And had they 
been re-cleaned,  its possible  Mr Ws son would have been  able to wear some of his clothes, 
rather than being  deprived of them until he outgrew them.  Importantly, if the re-cleaning of 
the sample items wasnt successful Mr W would  have a better case for an alternative  
settlement.
As Mr W wasnt willing to let J attempt to re-clean even a sample  of the items,  RSA gave him 
£1,000 in January 2018 to get the work  done  himself. Mr W chose not to do so until recently.  
But I think leaving the items for so long didnt help to mitigate  his loss. 
Mr W has eloquently described the disruption the restoration works caused and how difficult 
it was to remove the smoky odour  from their home  and possessions.  I appreciate  he and his 
family have  been  through an awful experience. A fire is a traumatic  and frightening  event 
and the clean-up  process is always likely  to be lengthy and complicated,  with inevitable 
inconvenience and disruption. But that doesnt mean it would be fair to hold RSA responsible 
for all of that. 
And I know Mr W doesnt agree, but I cant say RSA has done  something wrong  by not 
taking into consideration Mrs Ws loss of a close  relative in a previous fire. It had no way of 
knowing about this, and may not have been  able to handle things differently even if it had 
known. So I dont award additional compensation for that. 
 So taking everything  into consideration, to resolve this complaint RSA should:
reimburse Mr W for the costs  involved  in dry cleaning, professionally  laundering or 
repairing any of the items on the inventory, on production of an invoice (not 
quotation), first deducting the £1,000 already paid;
pay Mr W an additional £200,  (on top of the £200 already paid) to reflect  the poor 
service;
Mr W has mentioned  hes considering legal action if he remains unhappy at the outcome of 
his complaint. Our decisions  are only binding on the business if the consumer accepts them. 
So if Mr W doesnt accept this decision hes not prevented from doing so. 
Ref: DRN36716245my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint.  Royal  and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should 
resolve the complaint as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3671624