K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC would  not extend his business overdraft further  even 
though he had a source  of repayment  and faced difficult personal circumstances.
background
Mr S had an overdraft for his business of £50,000 secured on his home. Lloyds told him it 
was concerned that the balance was not fluctuating and was not being supported  by 
business activity.  It had renewed  the facility on a number  of occasions but in August 2018  
said that it would only do so for two months more  while he looked to sell his commercial  
premises. And otherwise  it would  be looking  to take recovery action. Mr S complained saying 
that he would be due money  from an inheritance and that hed told Lloyds his wife was 
seriously ill. He asked a legal  representative to help him who said that the response from 
Lloyds to his complaint  was inadequate  and unfair.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-It was clear Mr S had being  trying to raise  money to pay off the borrowing through  
either an asset sale or through  getting  planning permission to enhance the value of 
his premises  although that had been declined.
-There was said to be a significant inheritance due to him. But there  were  some 
issues with getting the co-operation  of other executor involved and no certainty when 
this might be resolved.
-Lloyds had extended his overdraft but explained  that it would not be responsible to 
continue this as it was not being  supported by trading income   it was not enough to 
rely on the security. That was a matter  within its commercial  discretion.
Mr S, through his representative  said he did not agree and his representative referred back  
to a letter sent in September 2018 setting out the concerns and it wanted  those to be 
answered in full. It said that Mr S had not received any support given his wifes illness  even 
though Lloyds said that this was something it would do. It did not think that the determination  
made by Lloyds could  be made without responding to all the points raised and providing the 
information requested   otherwise this wasnt a fair process.  And it said that it could not see 
how Lloyds was prejudiced by granting a 12 month reprieve for Mr S when it would still be 
getting interest on its borrowing. This service seemed to be saying it was acceptable for 
Lloyds to act in any way it chose.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution and decide  on the key issues  that will help determine 
a complaint and so how to investigate it. And once a business has responded to a complaint  
and its been referred  to us we wouldnt necessarily expect it to continue  in dialogue with a 
complainant about  it. 
In this case after the representatives  letter referred  to above Lloyds did issue  further 
responses to the complaint. It apologised for not providing some  of the information 
requested but it said that if the full file was required then Mr S would need to make a subject 
access request. It made some further  comments about why it wouldnt  be extending the 
overdraft and that it had been  making  it concerns clear to Mr S at earlier renewals.
Ref: DRN36221872What Lloyds has also told this service is that it has not been  applying the unauthorised 
interest rate to the loan since November  2018. And that although it wrote with a formal  
demand in April 2019 it wont be taking recovery action while this complaint is being  
considered. Ive also noted that in its letter of 14 October 2018 it said that it had made two 
separate offers to exchange its legal charge over Mr S home for a charge  over the 
commercial premises but that this has not been taken up.
Im clear  from Lloyds case notes that Mr S made it aware in April 2018 of his wifes illness.  I 
know Mr S questions why he did not get more specific  support along the lines publicised.  But 
Im going  to explain why I dont think  that is going  to affect the outcome here taking into 
account all the circumstances and Lloyds response.
I dont think Mr S disputes that hes had some business difficulties and as early  as 
December 2016  there  is reference in the case  notes  of Lloyds to the business struggling. 
Hes also been looking to get planning permission to develop  premises  into residential flats 
but had been making  applications  that werent accepted.  When his representative became 
involved he stated that Mr S didnt want to have to sell the premises in an auction  below  true 
value but would still be considering sale. And I understand that for some time there had been 
an issue with resolving  an inheritance for Mr S which it is said would have given him funds to 
repay the debt.
Lloyds cant in my view be criticised  for looking at income and cash flow as well as any 
security for the borrowing. It said it was not responsible as a lender for it to rely solely on that 
security and it expected  an overdraft  to fluctuate and for the balance to be managed within  
the limit. I think Mr S has had notice of its concerns for a reasonable period. And that his 
facility has been  extended already to give him breathing space. Ive set out above that 
Lloyds also seemed to be reconsidering its existing security which was clearly  a worry for  
Mr S and his family in the event  of recovery action. And thats  especially  given the concerns 
about his wifes health.
As our investigator says Lloyds has the commercial discretion to decide here on whether or 
not to continue to offer an overdraft which is effectively an on demand facility.  Thats  not the 
end of the matter  and I wouldnt  expect  it to exercise that discretion in an unreasonable  way. 
But here Im satisfied it had considered what Mr S has told it and the factors Ive outlined  
above. So I dont  have a reasonable basis to interfere in that decision. I need also to say that 
making demand and moving the account  to recoveries doesnt necessarily mean its going to 
take any particular  type of action and its said to this service that this might give it more 
options to agree a repayment  approach. Id be expecting it to act fairly in the future.
I understand the decision by Lloyds was very difficult for Mr S and he wanted  to challenge 
this with the help of his representative. Im satisfied Lloyds response  when considered  
across its letters to him was adequate. And Ive looked at the merits of his complaint 
independently. Im afraid having done  so I dont find Lloyds has acted unreasonably in 
dealing with his business borrowing and so I wont  be requiring it to do anything further.
Ref: DRN36221873my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3622187