K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs E says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Es circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because there is not enough information for me to 
conclude otherwise. This is understandable given  how long ago the sale was. And Im 
aware that at later dates where  further  information  is available, Santander generally 
required a separate  application form to be completed for PPI.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs E, so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time,  shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mr and 
Mrs E were eligible  for the cover and although they had existing means  they still seems 
to have had a need for cover. 
Ref: DRN38222212There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Es employment or occupation which would have  
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mrs E says she had a medical condition in 
1990, this appears  to have been  the result of an injury. And while her representative has 
suggested she had ongoing problems with this at the time of sale of the PPI, we asked  
for more information about this and nothing has been provided. So, theres insufficient 
information for me to conclude that this made the policy  unsuitable. So, I dont think it 
was wrong for Santander to have recommended it. There were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs E as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs E would have declined the cover  had Santander done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs E would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should  have  disclosed  the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Es individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Es particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Santander  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN38222213my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3822221