K822xcomplaint
Mrs D is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC made  a withdrawal from the wrong account.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 August 2019, a copy of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint should  be upheld and Mrs D be awarded  a total of £400 
compensation. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  my final 
decision. 
Barclays responded and said it agreed with my provisional findings. 
Mrs D responded saying she accepted the compensation  payment but felt she hadnt been  
returned to the position  she was in before Barclays error. She would still like to also be 
awarded the amount of money she paid to her husband because of what had happened.  
Mrs D also mentions that mistakes are still happening in the branch and steps have not been  
taken to prevent  the situation  happening  again, as she was promised.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for 
the same  reasons.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I wouldnt be requiring Barclays  to pay Mrs D an 
equivalent amount  to what  she paid her husband,  as this would result in betterment. And that 
ultimately this was an issue for her to resolve with her husband. While I appreciate  the 
position Mrs D has found herself in and why she doesnt wish to raise  this issue  with her 
husband again, my decision on this remains unchanged so I wont be ordering Barclays  to 
do anything more here. 
Im not aware of what  actions Mrs D was told may be taken in branch  to avoid mistakes like 
this happening.  While  I appreciate this is important  to Mrs D, the fact the branch  may not 
have taken any action  so far, wouldnt  lead me to change  my mind  on how this particular 
complaint should  be settled.  We look at each complaint on its individual  merits, so what 
Barclays does to stop the same thing happening again, doesnt affect what has already 
happened here and the outcome  of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN34237532my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mrs Ds complaint  
in part. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs D an additional amount of £200  
compensation, making the total awarded  £400.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Alison Gore 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34237533COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs D is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC made  a withdrawal  from the wrong account.
background
Mrs D wanted to withdraw some money from her sole account and transfer it to another bank. 
Barclays took the money from a joint business account instead.
Mrs D says this caused issues with her husband;  he was unaware of her sole account or the amount 
of money  she had, and demanded half be paid to him. She feels Barclays  error has meant she has 
lost out on a lot of money  and it should pay this to her. Mrs D has also said she has had to explain to 
her accountant where the funds went.
Barclays admitted  its error,  paid Mrs D £200 compensation and had a bunch of flowers delivered  to 
her. It said, as she still had access to the money, she hadnt lost out as a result of its error. And, 
how the money was divided was a civil matter  between Mrs D and her husband.
Our investigator looked at the case and let Mrs D know he didnt  think Barclays needed  to do
anything more.  Mrs D disagreed, so the case has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im issuing a provisional decision to share my 
thoughts on the complaint  with both parties, which are slightly different to those  held by our 
investigator. Both parties will have a chance to comment before  my final decision  is made.
We arent here to punish  businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Barclays to 
acknowledge what happened with an award of compensation.  Its already compensated Mrs D 
with £200 for the impact its mistake had and it has sent her some flowers. Its clear Mrs D doesnt 
think this adequately reflects the loss shes suffered and the experience shes had.
Mrs D explains she held the sole account  before she met her husband. The funds  gave her financial 
independence and were  for the benefit of her children,  should something happen to her. Now, due to 
Barclays error, her husband has become aware of the account. This caused considerable arguments 
between them over the course  of three days, which  was very distressing and upsetting for her. 
Ultimately, she felt she had no choice  but to give him half of her money. She also feels Barclays 
breached her confidentiality  by bringing  about her husbands awareness  of the account.
The issue here is whether  Barclays acted  fairly  and reasonably in offering to put things right. In 
thinking about  this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise  Barclays error caused Mrs D 
some considerable distress and she had to have some difficult conversations with her husband and 
accountant. So, Im satisfied  an award for compensation  is warranted  here. But, while I think  an 
increased award of compensation is due, it would  not be reasonable for me to tell Barclays to 
compensate Mrs D for the amount of money she gave her husband.  Ill explain why.
Barclays error was in transferring the money from the wrong account. It admitted the error quickly 
when it was brought  to its attention and tried to put things right. Had Barclays transferred the 
money to a different person, Id have asked  it to recover it. However,  in this case, Mrs D always 
had access to the money  it was transferred  to the account she had asked Barclays to send it to.
Ref: DRN34237534To ask Barclays to give Mrs D an equivalent amount to what she has given  her husband  would  
result in betterment. And by that, I mean someone is in a better position  than they would have 
been, had the error not been made. In this case, thats Mrs Ds husband. I understand why Mrs 
D feels she shouldnt  lose out because of Barclays error,  but as she herself recognises, this is 
ultimately an issue for her to resolve with her husband.  Because of this, I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything more here.
What is clear however, is the error  has had a big impact  on Mrs D. Shes explained  the problems 
and distress its caused her. I have a great deal of sympathy with the situation Mrs D has found 
herself in, through  no fault of her own. I understand she feels strongly  about it. I dont think £200  
compensation and flowers goes far enough to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes  
been caused.  Because  of this, I think Barclays  should pay Mrs D an additional £200 making the 
total amount of compensation £400.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to require Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay
Mrs D an additional amount  of £200 compensation, making the total awarded £400.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3423753