K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, (trading  as Halifax), mis-sold  him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr P took out the MPPI in 1991, probably at the same time as taking a further advance on 
his mortgage,  which had commenced  several years before.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Halifax had done  anything wrong. As Mr P disagreed  with 
this view the matter has come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision.
Because of the time that has passed, neither  Mr P nor Halifax has been  able to send us 
copies of the paperwork signed  by Mr P or the terms and conditions  of the actual policy  that 
was in use at the time. Nor does either  of them remember  much about how the policy  was 
sold. So Ive made  my decision on the basis  of what we know generally about the sale of 
MPPI policies and on the information that I do have. This includes that Mr P has told us that 
the sale took place in a meeting.  I have also looked  at the terms and conditions  of the oldest 
MPPI policy that Halifax has been  able to show us. This was in use some  two years after the 
sale. I have no reason to conclude  that the policy  sold to Mr P would have differed 
substantially from this. And Ive therefore based  my decision on the likelihood that their MPPI 
was in a substantially similar form.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
Mr P has said that he didnt know anything about having MPPI.  But understandably,  because 
the sale was over 25 years ago, he hasnt given us any detail about what  Halifax  said to him 
in the meeting. And, in the absence of more  persuasive evidence,  I dont find that I can fairly  
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make it clear  to Mr P that the MPPI was optional or 
that he didnt choose to take it. I find that this conclusion  is reinforced  by the fact that when 
Mr P originally took out his mortgage he was able to do so without taking out MPPI. 
If Halifax had advised Mr P to take out the insurance  it ought  to have taken reasonable steps  
to ensure that it was suitable for his needs.  I dont know what  steps  Halifax took, if any, but I 
find that the MPPI was suitable in any event. I say this because, knowing what  I do about 
Mr Ps circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy that Ive referred  
to above:
Mr P was likely  to have been eligible for the policy;
Mr P was unlikely to have been  caught by any of the MPPIs main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition or 
who was self-employed;
Ref: DRN30025052Mr P has told us that he wasnt entitled to sick pay from his employer and he had no 
other insurance or savings to help him make his mortgage repayments.  However,  
following a successful  claim  the policy would have  paid out £200 a month.  In the case of 
Mr P being off work  because of accident  or sickness, these payments would probably 
have been made for up to 24 months. And, in the case  of him having been  made  
redundant, they would  have probably  been made for up to 12 months. So I think  that the 
MPPI could have been of use to Mr P;
Halifax can no longer  tell us what the premiums were. And, in the absence  of more 
persuasive evidence,  I find that Ive nothing on which to conclude that the policy  wasnt  
reasonably priced by reference to other similar polices available in the market  at the 
time;
 Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr P couldnt afford the insurance.  In any event,  as it 
was paid for monthly, he could  have cancelled the policy  at any time had he later felt that 
it was unaffordable or he no longer required it;
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr P all the information about the MPPI that it ought to 
have so that he could make  a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. But in view of 
what Ive concluded  above I dont think that clearer information would have stopped  him 
buying it. I reach this conclusion particularly taking into account the possible serious 
consequences that could have arisen  had Mr P not been able to keep up his mortgage  
repayments, which were  secured on his home.
This means  I dont  think that Mr P has lost out because of anything  Halifax may have done 
wrong, or omitted to do, during the sale. So theres  nothing I require it to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3002505