K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs D says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 2000. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs D aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. FICL has told us the PPI was added to Mrs Ds card during a phone call 
several years after she took out her card. I cant know  for certain  what  was said at the time 
Mrs D applied for the PPI but she did so sometime after she applied  for  the card itself, so I 
think she would have  known she didnt have to take the policy  and chose to have  it, although 
I can understand why she may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included life insurance, savings,  help from family and a car she could 
have sold. But the policy would have covered circumstances Mrs Ds life insurance wouldnt 
have. It would also have  allowed  Mrs D to keep her savings in place so they could be used 
towards other essential expenses. And while Mrs Ds family would have wanted to help their 
ability to do so would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time, which could 
have changed.  The policy would also have prevented Mrs D from having  to sell her car.
Mrs D has told us she was self-employed at the time she took the policy.  But the policy didnt 
make it any more difficult for a self-employed  person  to make a claim.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
Ref: DRN32622372Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3262237