K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) decision to decline his claim for 
storm damage to his home.
background
Mr G owns a traditional semi-detached house that appears to date from between the first 
and second world wars. It has a three-sided bay window to the front at both ground and first 
floors. The walls between  the two windows  are the same shape and rendered  in what  looks 
like pebbledash. During bad weather in early 2018 a large amount of render on the middle 
wall between  the windows  broke  away. Mr G made  a claim for the damage to UKI.
UKI declined  the claim. It said that the weather immediately before  the damage  was not 
sufficiently bad to be described as a storm. In addition, it considered that the render had 
been failing  for some  time and that the bad weather simply highlighted the issue,  rather than 
caused it. 
UKI relied  on photographs  taken  from a publically available mapping  site. There were taken 
in 2008 and showed that there were cracks  to the render between the windows of Mr Gs 
home. These ran down the front corners of the bay window and were either side of where  
the render became detached during the bad weather. 
Mr G provided  a copy of a photograph he has from the time he bought the house. This 
photograph shows  that the long vertical cracks  in the render between the windows had been 
filled.
Mr G wasnt happy with UKIs decision and referred  his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint and upheld it. UKI didnt accept the view and asked 
that an ombudsman  review the case.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 December 2018. In that document I set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an extract  of that decision.
When considering  a claim that is made  during inclement weather, we will first consider 
whether a storm occurred.  UKI has said that it doesnt think  one did. I have reviewed the 
weather information  available from the time. This shows that on the day Mr G discovered  the 
damage the wind gusts werent high enough  to technically be considered  a storm, although 
the weather agency does confirm that a wind storm occurred. As I am not aware whether the 
damage happened on that day or was simply discovered then, I have also considered the 
weather information  for the previous day. This confirms that the maximum wind gusts  were  
lower, but then describes there being gale force gusts.
The wind speed  information doesnt appear to be entirely in line with the description of the 
weather. Based on the description  of the weather,  I think  it is entirely plausible that there was 
a storm prior to Mr G discovering  the damage  to his home.
When a storm has occurred, which is a peril covered by the insurance policy,  I must  then 
consider whether the damage is consistent  with that which would be caused  by a storm. I 
know that this will disappoint Mr G, but I am not convinced that it is in this case.
Ref: DRN33575282Firstly, removing good condition render from a wall is not something  that a storm is usually 
capable of. The photographs of his home following the storm clearly show where  the render 
is still partially attached,  its clear  that it has debonded from the underlying wall. By this I 
mean that the bond between the render and the wall has stopped  functioning  in this case  
there is a gap between  the wall and the render. 
Debonding will occur gradually  over time,  usually  when  water is able to get in through cracks 
in the render and freeze,  expanding  and breaking down the bond. The earlier pictures of 
Mr Gs home  clearly  show large cracks where water  would have been able to penetrate. I 
accept that they had been filled by the time he bought  the house, but the damage appears to 
have already been done.
So whilst the damage to Mr Gs home  occurred  during stormy weather, I am not persuaded 
that the weather was the cause of the damage. The render  appears to have already been 
damaged and the storm merely highlighted it. So I dont consider that UKI was wrong when it 
declined the claim.
Both UKI and Mr G confirmed  they had received my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has made any further 
comment or provided further  evidence, I see no reason to depart from my conclusions.  
I am satisfied that the damage to Mr Gs home  occurred during stormy weather, that weather 
was not the cause of the damage.  UKI didnt act inappropriately  when it declined the claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before 
24 February 2019..
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3357528