K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1991 in connection with
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage. Mr and Mrs D arranged some additional borrowing in 1992. Its 
not clear whether the 1991 policy was amended at that point, or whether a new policy  was 
sold.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  was passed to me. I issued a provisional  decision  on the complaint on 15 
August 2019.  I said I intended to uphold the complaint, but with additional reasons to those  
given by the adjudicator. Ive summarised  my provisional findings below:
I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  about the 1991 sale because
Mrs D probably  wasnt  eligible for the policy that was sold  which  Nationwide had 
said was in her sole name.  I thought it was unlikely  that Mrs D was working at the 
time, so she didnt fulfil the policys eligibility  criteria.  That meant the policy  wasnt  of 
any use to her.
Our adjudicator had also upheld the complaint in connection with what  happened  in 
1992, because  he took the view this was a separate sale of a new policy and he 
didnt consider Mrs D was eligible for it. Nationwide had supplied evidence which it 
considered showed  the policy probably  covered Mr D.
From  what Id seen and been  told, it wasnt clear to me whether there was a new 
policy sold in 1992, or whether the original policy was amended. I was also mindful 
that there was some  confusion about the revised premiums  Mr and Mrs D paid when 
their additional  borrowing  was arranged in 1992.  Mr and Mrs D had overpaid some of 
their premiums,  which Nationwide had offered to refund with interest. 
On balance I thought it was more  likely  that the 1991 policy remained in place, 
although its terms may have been amended.
Nationwide had said it wasnt clear  who was covered by the policy  when Mr and 
Mrs D arranged further borrowing in 1992.  But it thought there  was a successful 
claim on the policy in 1993,  and that the payments covered the whole of the 
mortgage repayments. So it considered the policy must have covered just Mr D, 
because Mrs D wouldnt have been able to claim if she still wasnt working.
From  what Id seen it wasnt clear what those payments were for, or that they were in 
fact claims for accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr and Mrs D had said they 
didnt remember making a claim on the policy.
So I wasnt able to safely conclude  that Mr D made a successful claim on the policy.
And that meant  Id not been shown that the policy only covered Mr D, from 1992. But 
even if it did, I thought it had been mis-sold  in 1991 when Nationwide said it was just 
in Mrs Ds name.
Ref: DRN37445192Overall, I thought it was likely that Nationwide sold one policy to Mr and Mrs D in 
1991, which was only meant to cover Mrs D. As Mrs D wasnt  working at the time she 
wasnt eligible for the cover. So, I thought Mr and Mrs D had lost out because  of what 
the business did wrong in connection  with the sale.
Mr and Mrs D didnt make any further  comments in response to my provisional decision.
Nationwide responded to say, in summary,  that it considered a new policy  had been  sold in 
1992 and gave detailed reasons for its conclusions. It maintained that the 1992 policy (which 
it said was a new sale) wouldnt have been  sold to Mrs D if she wasnt  working at the time. It 
still considered the payments that were made in 1993 were evidence  that Mr D claimed on 
the policy.
Nationwide said it still didnt consider there was enough evidence to show that Mrs D wasnt 
working when the 1991 policy was sold. It accepted that Mr and Mrs D had tried to 
demonstrate Mrs Ds employment status  by obtaining HMRC records   which it considered  
were inconclusive.
Despite its reservations,  Nationwide  said it was willing to refund the premiums  Mr and Mrs D 
had paid between  1991 and 1992,  on the basis that Mrs D wasnt  eligible for the policy.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive given careful consideration to the further points  Nationwide has made  in response to my 
provisional decision.
Nationwide points out that it didnt  give Mr and Mrs D any advice in connection with the 1991 
sale. So it considers  Mr and Mrs D should  take some responsibility for signing up to a policy 
that Mrs D wasnt eligible for if she wasnt working at the time.
But even if Nationwide  wasnt  giving Mr and Mrs D advice, it still had to make sure it gave 
them good  enough information about the policy so that they could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to buy it. And it hasnt  shown  me clearly that it did so.
Im mindful that the sale took place as part of a mortgage application, and that
Mr and Mrs D were likely to have been given significant amounts of documentation during 
that process.  I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs D wouldve had an opportunity to study the 
policys eligibility terms when they agreed to buy the policy,  or that Nationwide  wouldve 
pointed out those terms to them clearly enough before they took the policy out.
So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs D were at fault for arranging a policy that Mrs D 
wasnt eligible for in 1991. I cant be sure Mrs D wasnt working then,  and Ive not seen any 
evidence clearly showing this  although  the HMRC records  Mr and Mrs D have  supplied  
Ref: DRN37445193seem to me to support  it. But Mrs D has been consistent in what shes told us about this and, 
on balance, I still think its reasonable for me to accept what  shes said.  So in my view 
Nationwide shouldnt have sold Mr and Mrs D a policy  under which Mrs D wouldnt be able to 
claim.
Nationwide says the rearrangement  of the policy in 1992 was likely to have been  a 
technicality  whether  the original policy was amended, or a new one sold. Nationwide  
considers the evidence  shows a new policy was set up. From  what  Ive seen however, I still 
dont think I can fairly  say that is the case.  
Nationwides original  submissions to this service  said its records  demonstrated the 1991 
policy was amended. And despite  some suggestion  that there may have been two separate  
policies, it also referred to the policy  running from 1991 to 1995.
Ive thought carefully about everything Nationwide has said. And I accept that its difficult to 
know exactly what happened, with so little information or paperwork from the time being 
available now. But Nationwide hasnt provided any new evidence to support its belief that 
there was a new policy sold in 1992.  So I remain of the view that its more likely the original 
policy sold in 1991 was amended in 1992  when  Mr and Mrs D arranged  their additional 
borrowing, and that there  wasnt a fresh  sale.
Similarly, I havent seen any new evidence that clearly demonstrates  the payments made to 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage in 1993 were payments in connection with an accident, sickness 
or unemployment claim on the policy. So this point doesnt change my overall conclusions 
about who was covered  by the policy from 1992 onwards.
Overall, I remain of the view that one policy was sold in 1991, which  was amended  in 1992. 
And irrespective of who was covered by the policy from 1992 onwards, the policy  was mis-
sold in 1991 because Mrs D wasnt eligible  for it. This means Im not persuaded to depart 
from the outcome  set out in my provisional  decision.  I still think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs D in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out
the PPI in 1991. The PPI should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and
Nationwide should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
-If Mr and Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI, Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
-Nationwide can also take off the refund of overpaid premiums and interest it has 
offered Mr and Mrs D, if this has already been  paid to them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide
must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN37445194my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs D in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3744519