K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that it took too long for Society of Lloyds to repair  his boiler  under his home  
emergency cover. 
background
Mr W had a boiler installed  in May 2017. At the time he had taken  out a home  plan with 
Corgi which  would cover, among other things, his boiler. In this case, Mr Ws policy  was 
underwritten by Lloyds,  and some of the correspondence during the complaint as well as 
during our investigation  has come from Lloyds. So for ease, Ill refer to actions taken by 
Lloyds and its agents as Corgi.  
Around December  2017 he began experiencing issues with it  in short, he complained that 
the boiler was displaying an intermittent  fault which included switching on and off. He called 
Corgi under  his plan to have an engineer come out and fix it. When  the engineer attended, 
he identified that the boiler was still under warranty and that carrying  out any work  on it could 
invalidate it. 
Shortly after this visit Mr W sent Corgi an email  explaining that as he had bought the boiler 
through it, his understanding  was that Corgi would  need to liaise with the manufacturer to 
arrange for a visit. Corgi  replied to Mr Ws email and explained that the issue had been 
referred back to the manufacturer, and that it would chase this up to make  sure they come 
out to fix the fault for you and will also keep you updated on the status. 
In January 2018 Mr W called several  times  to chase the appointment with the engineer.  On 
one occasion  towards  the end of January the wrong  engineer was booked  but couldnt work 
on the boiler as he was not approved by the manufacturer. There  appeared to be no action 
in February, until Mr W called again in March to find out what was happening.  Once  more  
some firms were  approached but had to cancel on the basis that they were not approved  by 
the manufacturer. 
Eventually, after a number  of calls, missed appointments and parts not being  available, 
Mr Ws boiler was fixed in May 2018.  
Mr W was unhappy with the service he had received  from Corgi,  so he complained.  Corgi  
looked into his complaint  and considered  the service it had offered him hadnt been 
acceptable and some delays had occurred.  It offered Mr W £150 for the poor service. Mr W 
didnt agree this was enough and referred his complaint to this service.  He claimed 
substantial loss of earnings for the number  of days he had needed to take off work. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  In short,  she agreed with Mr W that he 
had been caused significant  trouble  and upset by Corgis service.  
She acknowledged that not all of the delays he experienced were Corgis  fault  but she 
considered that Corgi  hadnt done enough to ensure the issue was resolved as quickly  as 
possible for Mr W. 
She considered Mr Ws claim for loss of earnings  but didnt consider it fair and reasonable to 
recommend Corgi pay for those, as it wasnt solely responsible for the issues  he 
experienced. 
Ref: DRN36674662However, she considered  £500 to be more appropriate compensation given the significant 
trouble he had been put through and the insufficient attempts by Corgi to ensure the matter 
was resolved promptly. 
Corgi didnt agree. In short,  it considered  that the amount  the investigator was awarding was 
disproportionate. It said that while the claim didnt  go as smoothly  as possible, the actions 
of the manufacturer were to blame for the majority of the issues  Mr W had experienced. It 
thought its offer of £150 was fair and reasonable given the circumstances. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. 
The chronology of the case is very detailed and spans a number  of months.  There  is a great 
volume of contact, both between Mr W and Corgi,  and internal contact between different 
agents working for Corgi. Ive not sought to replicate  all of the contact  notes in this decision, 
but I can confirm Ive read and considered all the contact notes in their entirety.  
I do understand the points Corgi has made and why it considers it shouldnt have to pay any 
more compensation  for the trouble and upset Mr W was caused. Its not in dispute that the 
manufacturer didnt  cover  itself in glory during Mr Ws case   so its for this reason, for 
example, that I dont  consider it would  be fair to ask it to pay for Mr Ws loss of earnings. But 
its certainly not in dispute that Mr W was substantially inconvenienced during the period 
December 2017  to May 2018. 
I also agree  that the award recommended by the investigator is substantial given the 
circumstances. But having  considered  the facts of this case in their entirety, I think that 
award is fair and reasonable and goes some way to compensating  Mr W for degree of 
trouble and upset  which  he was caused,  and which I think  Corgi  couldve mitigated or 
alleviated to a certain  degree.  
I say this because  I dont agree with Corgi that Mr W was kept up to date during this period. 
In fact I think that, bar one or two occasions, most of the action or updates were prompted  by 
Mr W contacting Corgi  and asking about  what was happening. And in fact it was only when 
his requests for updates  turned into complaints in March 2018 that Corgi began to take more 
substantive action  for example agreeing  to source parts  itself,  rather than wait for the 
manufacturer, or establishing  whether or not the boiler had been properly installed in the first 
place. Considering a Corgi  engineer  had visited Mr Ws boiler four months  before,  I dont  
consider this was acceptable service. 
Thats not to say that Corgis agents  didnt try, when Mr W called, to chase the relevant 
engineers who might be able to work  on Mr Ws boiler. I can see they did, and I can see 
several notes showing  various internal calls to try and arrange matters. But it seems to me 
that all of this was in fact driven by Mr Ws understandable persistence in trying to get the 
matter resolved. 
It took until early May 2018 for the words agreed  to take ownership to appear in the notes  of 
all the various calls  in other words, it took 6 months for someone  from Corgi to understand 
Ref: DRN36674663that a customer of theirs had been  left with a deficient boiler, several  missed  appointments, 
and no further  forward in resolving the issue. And that Mr W was a customer  and deserved 
someone to take ownership  of the issue, rather than simply leaving a voicemail  or 
forwarding a message. I dont think its a coincidence that Mr Ws boiler was then fixed  
around a week after this. 
The first page of Mr Ws policy says that whichever  Corgi HomePlan youve chosen, you 
can have confidence  that our extensive  cover and dedicated  team  will look after you and 
your home. I dont think this was Mr Ws experience. I think  his experience  was that once  it 
was established  that a Corgi engineer couldnt  fix the boiler, the matter was simply shifted to 
the manufacturer and Mr W was at the mercy of a third party   with the onus on him to 
chase, make time and constantly ask for updates. I dont  think thats the service he was 
expecting. And Im sure Corgi would  agree,  that isnt the service the plan was intended to 
deliver. 
As Ive said above,  I do acknowledge and agree, using  Corgis words, that the actions of the 
manufacturer have  reflected badly on the underwriters. So in principle I agree that not all of 
Mr Ws poor experience is down to Corgi   and indeed I think that even if someone had 
taken ownership  sooner,  its likely  the matter wouldnt have  been  resolved immediately. 
However, I dont consider  it reasonable that it took over 6 months for someone to realise that 
Mr W required proactive assistance, and someone  to not only keep him updated, but also 
chase matters for him and keep chasing  until his boiler was fixed.  I think  if someone had 
understood this in December 2017, the matter wouldve been resolved much  sooner and a 
lot of Mr Ws trouble and upset wouldve been avoided.  
So given all the above, Im satisfied that an award of £500 is fair and reasonable given the 
particular circumstances  of Mr Ws case  and thats what I require Society of Lloyds to pay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Society of Lloyds must pay Mr W £500 
within 28 days of when  we tell it that Mr W has accepted my decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3667466