K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited gave him incorrect  information  after he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
After Mr As car was stolen in 2017, Aviva paid him £8,000 for it. Shortly afterwards, it was 
recovered without  much damage. Mr A asked Aviva if he could return the money  and keep 
the car, but only on the basis that Aviva would remove  any record  of his claim. Aviva  agreed 
to that. Mr A got the car back and says he spent  over £370 getting  it repaired and valeted.  
Mr A then found that Aviva was unable to remove the record  of the claim on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange  database (CUE). Instead it had amended the CUE  record to say 
the claim was non-fault, with nothing paid on it, and that Mr As no claims discount (NCD) 
was allowed. Mr A said had Aviva told him the facts, he would have kept the money.  He only 
wanted to undo the settlement if that meant  no record of the claim was showing.  Otherwise  
he knew the premiums for his three  vehicles were  likely to be higher for the next five years.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr As complaint. She noted that Aviva accepted it had 
given Mr A the wrong information during the call and had offered him £150  compensation. 
She thought  it should do more. She asked Aviva if it would consider taking the car back, 
refunding the sum Mr A had spent on the repairs and recording a fault claim on CUE.  She 
said Mr A wouldnt have  returned the £8,000 had he known the facts.
Aviva said the investigator wasnt able to say for sure what  Mr A would have done had he 
realised what the true situation was. It said the claim had been  recorded correctly on CUE 
and it would have  to be changed  to a fault claim if Aviva were to agree to her proposal. It 
said as Mr As NCD was allowed when he bought back  the claim,  hed benefitted  from a 
further two years NCD. And it said the cars value would be less now that it was then.
The investigator said the call between Aviva and Mr A showed he was given the wrong 
advice. She said we have to make judgements about what we think is most likely  to have 
happened in each case. She said Mr As NCD would have reduced anyway had he been 
given the right advice.  She also said it would be fair for Aviva  to make premium  adjustments  
if it agreed to her proposal. She said Mr A should  be put back in the position  he would have 
been in had Aviva not made  an error. Aviva asked  for a review of the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
The original  position  was that Mr A had a fault claim on his record, so his NCD would have 
been affected and his premiums are likely to have risen. Mr A had two vehicles in addition to 
the stolen car, so he checked with Aviva  to see if there was a way around  that. He accepted  
Avivas assurance that the record of the claim would be removed should he return the 
£8,000 and keep the recovered car. 
As the investigator  has already  pointed out, we have to decide  whats  most likely  to have 
happened in any given situation.  From  everything  Mr A has said, I think  had he known a 
record of the claim would remain, he wouldnt have returned the money. He did that to avoid 
increased premiums on his vehicles for the next five years and to have the theft marker  
removed. The file notes  show the latter was done. Mr A says he wouldnt have replaced the 
stolen car using the £8,000 as it wasnt used much anyway, given his other  vehicles.
Ref: DRN31895862Theres no doubt that Avivas advisor should  have  explained to Mr A that it wasnt possible to 
remove the record on CUE. Had that been done, Im satisfied that he would have been 
content to keep the settlement sum. A fault claim and a pay-out by Aviva would then have 
remained on CUE. So the premiums on Mr As other  two vehicles are likely to have  risen.  
But he wouldnt have incurred any further expenses on the recovered car. Instead  hes faced 
higher premiums on his policies, plus the cost of repairs  and many other items on that car.  
I think Aviva  should put Mr A back in the position  he would have been in but for its error.  
That means taking  the car back and paying  him the settlement sum he returned  to it. I think  
Aviva should  also pay the repair / valeting costs Mr A incurred.  
Mr A has incurred  many other costs on the car since 2017 (road  tax, insurance, MOT 
payments, maintenance costs and parking permit charges). He thinks Aviva should pay for 
these costs as well. I think Aviva  should reimburse  Mr A for any of these items he can 
provide receipts  for, with interest. But for Avivas error, Mr A wouldnt have paid for any 
expenses on the car from 2017 onwards and hed have had the benefit  of the £8,000  
settlement. Hed have paid more for insurance on the other two vehicles had the fault claim 
remained on CUE, however, and his NCD would have been affected. So I think it would be 
reasonable for Aviva to take that into account in working out the refund. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Mr A accepted it. He said that if 
faced with the prospect of significantly higher premiums on all his vehicles, hed only have 
retained and insured  one of them. Aviva said it was speculation that if its advice had been  
clearer, Mr A would not have paid back  the total loss sum. It said the claim  on its system had 
no detrimental effect on his policy. It also said Mr A has had the benefit of the car for three  
years, so its value is now lower than when the claim was paid.  It said the expenses of having  
the car since  then would have been  run up anyway on any replacement  car he bought. But it 
said it was prepared to pay for the valet costs subject to a receipt  plus the policy  excess.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional view, in the absence of evidence other  than the statements made 
by a consumer,  its our role to decide what is most likely to have happened. Im persuaded 
that Mr A would not have returned  the settlement sum had he realised a claim would still 
show on CUE. His reason  for seeking clarity from Aviva on this point was to see if he could 
avoid the prospect of higher premiums on his other vehicles for the next few years. I think  
thats a credible reason. Had Aviva said a claim would  remain  showing on CUE (rather than 
on its internal system) hed have had no reason to return the settlement  to it.   
Although Mr A has had the benefit of the car since then, and its likely  to be worth  less now 
than it was three years ago, I think the loss on it Aviva will face is a direct  result of Avivas 
error. In order to put Mr M back in the position  he would have been in, but for that error, I 
think it would  be reasonable for it to pay him the sum he wouldnt otherwise have returned. 
Ref: DRN31895863I think the same applies to the expenses Mr A has incurred on the car since then. Mr A says 
he wouldnt  have bought another vehicle had he kept the £8,000. I think thats more  likely 
than not to be the case. If hed retained the money,  a fault claim would  have been  recorded 
on CUE, and Mr As NCD would have  reduced. So he would definitely have faced higher 
premiums on his other vehicles. Potentially that could have caused him to decide  to retain 
only one of them, as hes suggested. But in any event I dont think  its likely at all in those 
circumstances that he would have considered buying a replacement  car.   
I remain of the view that Mr As complaint should  be upheld  in line with my provisional view.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to do 
the following:
Buy the car back  from Mr A for the £8,000 originally  paid for it
Amend the records to show a fault claim in 2017 with the cost incurred
Amend Mr As NCD as appropriate
Subject to receipts, refund Mr A for the initial repairs to the car and its valeting
Subject to receipts, refund Mr A for the cars road tax, insurance, maintenance costs 
and parking permit  charges - after taking  into account  the increased premiums  he would 
have paid from 2017 with a fault claim and a reduced NCD
Add interest  to the refunds, at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the date of each 
payment to the date of the settlement   
If Aviva thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3189586