K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold an Ultimate  Reward  
Current Account (URCA) packaged bank  account to him in October 2010. 
background
One of our adjudicators has looked at this complaint and didnt  think BOS had mis-sold the 
URCA. Mr M disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr M. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr M was given a clear  choice  in taking this account. At 
this point, I should explain that I have  to make my decision  based on what  I think  is most  
likely to have happened, having weighed up what both Mr M and BOS have been able to 
provide me with.
From what  Ive seen, Mr Ms account  was opened  as a fee paying URCA. But Mr M has 
explained that he did hold a free account  prior to this and it is common knowledge in the UK 
that free banking  was available. So I think Mr M wouldve been aware that free accounts  
existed and were an option for him.
Mr M has said he was told that it would improve his credit rating  if he held the URCA and 
that it would  help him get a mortgage in the future. But I cannot see any declined 
applications for credit prior to him taking out the URCA  or that he ever tried to take out a 
mortgage with Halifax. So I cant see why Mr M wouldve believed his credit  rating  needed 
improving and I dont  think that it is likely that Mr M wouldve agreed  to pay for an account to 
get a mortgage in the future, but then never take out a mortgage. I think  that its more likely  
than not that Mr M took out the account due to the benefits that it came  with. 
I can see that Mr M obtained an overdraft when  he took out the URCA. At this time BOS was 
charging its free current account holders a £1 a day overdraft usage  fee to use an agreed 
overdraft. URCA  account holders didnt need  to pay this fee as long as they kept to their 
individual agreed limit as well as the overall URCA limit. Given Mr Ms subsequent usage of 
his overdraft, I think that at this may have been  why he agreed  to the account.
BOS says it didnt recommend the URCA.  And I havent seen  anything  here to suggest      
Mr Ms needs were assessed  before the URCA was sold, which is what shouldve happened  
if the account was recommended. So overall I dont think  that BOS  did recommend the 
URCA to Mr M. This means  it didnt have to check if the URCA was right for him. It was up to 
Mr M to do this. But BOS did have to give him clear enough information to do so. I think  its 
likely Mr M was provided with information on the main benefits  included on the URCA.  After 
all BOS was trying to get him to pay for it when he in all likelihood knew  she didnt have to. 
Ref: DRN31870672In any event, when  Mr M agreed  to the URCA a couple of the main benefits  it included were 
mobile phone insurance,  travel insurance and preferential overdraft terms. And having 
looked at what  hes told us about his circumstances, Ive seen no obvious reason to suggest 
Mr M couldnt have used these benefits  if he chose to do so. Indeed it looks  like Mr M 
registered at least one handset with the mobile  phone insurer. I note Mr M says that he did 
not register his phone  and it may have been  the advisor that registered  his handset. But this 
registration was two years after the initial upgrade  so I think that it is more  likely that Mr M 
did so, albeit in circumstances he no longer recalls.
Mr M also saved  by not having to pay the £1 a day overdraft usage fees that BOS free 
accountholders had to pay too. So I think its fair to say he made some use of the URCA. I 
accept that Mr M may not have had a need  for all the benefits.  But the benefits on packaged 
accounts are sold as overall packages.  And its rare for an accountholder to want and need  
all the benefits  in a given  package.
Overall I think  Mrs M was eligible  for and couldve used most of the main benefits  of the 
URCA. So while Im open to the possibility he might  not have been told everything he 
needed to about all the ins and outs of the URCA,  I do think  he received enough to know 
and understand  what  he was agreeing to. 
Mr M may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think he shouldnt  have taken  out the URCA. 
And given  what he mightve  read about  packaged accounts in general, I can understand why 
he believes  his URCA mightve  been mis-sold. But I think Mr M chose  to take the URCA 
having a decent appreciation of what  it included. So I want  to reassure  Mr M that having 
looked at all the information provided and thought about everything hes said,  I dont think  
BOS mis-sold the URCA to him.
Mr M has said that when he downgraded his account online he was not told that he would be 
charged for his overdraft  and that this means,  in effect, he does not have  a fee free account. 
Given that the £300 fee free overdraft facility was a listed benefit of the URCA I think that Mr 
M would have been aware that downgrading from this account would mean that the benefit 
would no longer be available to him. I should  also highlight that Mr Ms account  is fee free 
and being charged for using an overdraft does  not mean that the account itself is not fee 
free. I should also highlight  that the charging  structure for overdrafts would be listed on his 
bank statements both prior to and after the upgrade. So I dont think  that BOS did anything 
wrong in relation to this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.  
Ref: DRN31870673Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3187067