K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  about the level of service received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when 
she asked for a disputed  cash withdrawal  from an ATM to be refunded. 
background 
Miss A has a current  account  with Lloyds. She said she used her card at an ATM outside a 
Lloyds branch at the end of November  2018  to withdraw £410. But she said the notes 
werent dispensed. 
She contacted Lloyds  to explain what had happened.  Lloyds  checked  the ATM journal and 
found that it had the correct funds remaining and so determined  that the money had been 
dispensed. 
Miss A made a number of calls to Lloyds.  She told it that the money wasnt dispensed  when 
she requested it. She also said there were a few people within the vicinity of the ATM.  And a 
person had used  the ATM  after shed said she had issues  with it, which  she found 
suspicious. She therefore considered that she may have been defrauded. So she said 
Lloyds should  check the CCTV. 
Lloyds said as the ATM journal showed  that the cash  was dispensed, it wouldnt be able to 
refund Miss A. It said that Miss A would  need  to contact the police in order  for the CCTV to 
be requested and reviewed as she considered  a crime couldve taken place. 
Miss A remained unhappy and so she brought a complaint to our service.  Lloyds  carried  out 
a further review and said although the ATM  journal confirmed the money  was dispensed, it 
agreed to refund the £410 Miss A said she didnt receive. This was because Miss As 
withdrawal request was the last request carried out on that day. The ATM journal showed all 
other usage was for balance enquiries and mini statements. So it agreed on balance  that 
there mightve been an issue  with the ATM.  
Lloyds also accepted that Miss A wouldve experienced a level of trouble and upset as she 
was without these  funds over the festive period, and there  was some delay in resolving her 
complaint. So it offered  to pay Miss A an additional £150. 
Our investigator reviewed  the offer Lloyds made and felt this was fair and reasonable, so he 
put this to Miss A. But Miss A didnt agree this offer was fair. She said had to borrow  money 
from friends and was spoken to unreasonably  by Lloyds over the phone. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Miss A, I agree with our investigators view and will explain why. 
I sympathise with the situation Miss A experienced in late 2018.  And having  listened to the 
calls I have heard how upsetting  this was for her. But what I must decide is whether the offer 
Lloyds has made is fair and reasonable. And in this case, I think it is. 
There was some delay experienced when Lloyds were investigating Miss As ATM dispute. 
Its not unusual  for a bank to check an ATMs journal  roll or purge bin to establish whether 
Ref: DRN32941362the funds had been dispensed or not. So I dont think it was unfair  for it to fully investigate  
that prior to communicating  its decision to Miss A on 14 December 2018  which  was a 
couple of weeks  after she first reported  what had happened. 
Miss A contacted Lloyds on a few occasions and was informed that she would need  to 
contact the police in order to check the CCTV. I appreciate why this wouldve been  
frustrating for Miss A given she said she had contacted the police but was redirected back  to 
Lloyds. But, I cant agree that Lloyds were acting unreasonably in asking Miss A to do so, 
had this evidence  been received it wouldve supported what  happened at the ATM  and 
enabled Lloyds  to resolve the issue for Miss A. 
Nonetheless, Lloyds  later decided to refund the funds back  to Miss A because  the ATM 
journal showed  that her transaction  was the last transaction  noted that day. The journal 
showed a number of balance enquiries  and mini statement  requests  following the incident.  
It said this suggested  that on balance there was possibly an issue  with the ATM and 
therefore decided  to refund the funds  back to Miss A. It also offered her £150  for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Miss A said she didnt think this was a fair offer.  She said she had to borrow money  from 
friends which caused her embarrassment. She also said she had to pay back more than 
what she borrowed to her friends. But I havent  seen any evidence of this, and I wouldnt 
require Lloyds to refund the money  Miss A borrowed as Im satisfied it put her back in the 
position she shouldve  been in had the ATM not had issues.  
Ive listened to the calls where  Miss A said Lloyds had acted unreasonably towards her. And 
whilst I reiterate that these wouldve been frustrating for her, Im not persuaded the agents 
she spoke to acted  unfairly. But I do think it couldve checked its decision with the ATM 
disputes team sooner given Miss A had disputed its original decision. But I dont think  it 
should increase  its offer because of this. 
Ive considered the impact this has had on Miss A, and agree this wouldve been an 
upsetting time for her. But Lloyds has offered £150 to recognise this and the time of year 
Miss A was deprived of these funds.  Im satisfied Lloyds has put Miss A back in the position 
she shouldve been in, and £150  to recognise  the trouble and upset is fair and reasonable in 
in these circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. If payment hasnt been made, I require Lloyds 
Bank PLC to pay Miss A £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3294136