K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mr B say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
background
Mr T and Mr B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2007. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy and it protected their monthly mortgage repayments. Mr T and Mr B say they 
took out the policy on the phone. NatWest cant now say which sales channel  was used to 
sell the policy to them. The policy covered them both.
Mr T and Mr B, in the main, say they were told they had to take PPI because they wanted a 
100% mortgage. They  say they didnt want or need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T and Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr T and Mr Bs case. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
I dont uphold Mr T and Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  it clear that PPI was optional and that Mr T and Mr B didnt need to 
take it out. I cant know if this policy was sold to Mr T and Mr B on the phone. The call 
recording is not available now.  Banks  often only keep records  for six years, and this policy 
was sold much longer  ago than that. Mr T and Mr B said it was sold on the phone and that 
they were told they had to take PPI to get a 100% mortgage. 
Ive seen their mortgage paperwork. Ive also seen a letter sent to the bank to support their 
mortgage application.  It gave details of earlier financial difficulties, which  no longer existed. 
They also said they had some savings, which they were using to cover  the other costs of 
buying a house. 
Even if there  was an earlier phone  call, I note on their written  mortgage application they say 
they want PPI and sign to show that. They ask for a 100% mortgage. 
The mortgage application paperwork makes it clear PPI is optional. They signed this on 20 
March 2007. 
They were  then sent the mortgage offer, dated  2 April 2007. 
Ive looked carefully  at the mortgage  offer.  It said this:
  
Insurance you must take out through  National  Westminster Home Loans Ltd
Ref: DRN37947082None
Insurance you must take out as a condition  of this mortgage  but that you do not have 
to take out through National Westminster Home Loans Ltd
Insurance Product
Buildings Insurance
Optional Insurance that you do not have  to take out through  National Westminster 
Home Loans Ltd
Insurance Product  Description Monthly Premium
Mortgage Repayment Protection £59.86
This made it very clear that they did not have to take out any insurance  through  NatWest, 
including PPI, to get their 100% mortgage.  
It also said this at the top of the mortgage  offer. 
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT. YOU SHOULD TAKE  INDEPENDENT LEGAL 
ADVICE BEFORE SIGNING AND  SIGN ONLY IF YOU WANT TO BE LEGALLY  BOUND.
I think it likely that Mr T and Mr B wouldve read this important  document   after all it was 
telling them that the bank  had agreed to give them the mortgage theyd asked for. It also told 
them the mortgage rate theyd been  offered, and the amount of money the bank was 
prepared to loan them.
The information about insurance  and PPI was clear and prominent in section 9 of the offer. 
Mr T and Mr B signed  to take out the mortgage on the terms set out in the offer.
So, I think that Mr T and Mr B were  clearly told they didnt have to take PPI to get the 
mortgage. They signed on more than one occasion to say they wanted  it. I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that they were  led to believe that they had no choice  but to take PPI. 
So, I cant fairly uphold  their complaint on this ground.
I cant see that NatWest advised  them to take out this policy. So, it didnt have to consider 
whether PPI was suitable for them. But, it did have  to give them  enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policy so they could decide if it was right for them and they 
wanted to buy it. To avoid  any doubt even had NatWest advised them to take out this policy, 
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for them, given their circumstances at the time. 
I don think the policy  was inappropriate for them because:
the policy was taken out in their joint names. I cant see that this was inappropriate 
given they were both working and contributing to the mortgage. The benefit split was 
calculated based on their individual percentage of their total income; 
they were both eligible to take out the policy.
they said they were  both eligible  to get sick pay from their employers. The PPI 
wouldve paid out, on top of their work  benefits. It wouldve covered Mr T and Mr Bs 
monthly mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  per claim.  So, I think PPI 
Ref: DRN37947083couldve still provided them with valuable protection, giving they were protecting  their 
home.
they said they also had savings. But, its clear  from the letter  they sent to the bank 
that their savings were  going  to be used to cover the other  costs  involved in buying  a 
house. And even  if Mr T and Mr B had any savings left over,  I cant  see this made  the 
policy unsuitable for them. They couldve used these other savings to meet their 
other household  expenditure, at what might be a difficult time for them  financially if 
one of them wasnt working.
they say their family couldve helped out with their repayments. But, help of this kind 
cant always be guaranteed when the time comes. So, I havent placed much  reliance 
on this.
I cant see that they were affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  in the 
policy that might have made it more difficult for them to make a successful claim. So, 
I dont think they needed better information about these things.
the costs of PPI were  set out in the mortgage  offer. Mr T and Mr B chose to take out 
the policy when  they didnt have  to. And they filled in a payment instruction to their 
bank for it  so they knew thered be a cost for PPI. I havent seen anything to 
suggest it wasnt affordable for Mr T and Mr B at the time. Mr T and Mr B couldve 
cancelled the PPI without losing out financially, if their circumstances changed or 
they didnt want  to keep paying  for it. So, I dont  think having clearer  information 
wouldve affected their decision to buy the policy. 
I realise that Mr T and Mr B feel strongly that this policy  was mis-sold. But, I dont think they 
have lost out because of anything NatWest may have  done wrong. So I make no award.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3794708