K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ss Egg credit card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Canada Square disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S applied  for the credit card and PPI online.  Canada Square didnt recommend the 
PPI to Mr S. This means it didnt need  to check that the PPI was suitable for him. But it 
did have a responsibility to give Mr S clear enough information to enable  him to make  an 
informed decision about whether  the policy was right for him.
Ive looked  at the screen  shots  Canada Squares provided to show  what Mr S would 
have seen during the application process. And Im not satisfied that the information it 
gave Mr S about the eligibility  conditions for the PPI was as clear as it should  have been.
To be eligible  for cover, the card holder had to be UK resident when the policy started. 
U.K. Resident was defined as a person who lives lawfully  in the United Kingdom for at 
least 40 weeks in every  52 week period throughout the period of insurance.
Mr S has told us that from 1999 to 2002 he was working abroad  for six out of every eight 
weeks.
The screenshots of the application process  show that Mr S needed  to click an option  
either to accept or decline the PPI. But there was no detailed  information about PPI on 
that screen. If the applicant clicked yes to the PPI, there  was a statement to say that 
theyd read the terms and conditions. But there  was no mention of the fact that there 
were eligibility conditions that needed to be met, or significant exclusions  and limitations.
Canada Square  has provided a record of the information that Mr S input during the 
application. I havent seen anything to suggest that he was asked  to confirm whether he 
was resident in the UK for at least 40 weeks per year. And from what Ive seen, the 
eligibility criteria  were  only set out in the full policy terms and conditions. So Im not 
convinced that they would have  been obvious to Mr S when he was following the online 
application process.
Ref: DRN36604872Based  on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr S wasnt  eligible for 
the policy, and so wouldnt have been  covered  for any claims.  So if Canada  Square had 
drawn his attention  to the eligibility  criteria, I dont think its likely hed have taken the 
policy out. This means that hes lost out as a result  of Canada Squares  failings.
fair compensation
Canada Square  should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Canada Square should find out how much  Mr S would have owed when he closed  his 
credit card account  if the policy  hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Canada Square  should then refund the difference between  what Mr S owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Canada  Square can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Canada Square should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mr S would 
have owed when he closed  his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Canada  Square work out what Mr S would have owed  each month without PPI 
 Mr S paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Canada  Square should  also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mr S would have owed Canada  Square  something on his credit card. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Canada Square should tell Mr S what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Canada Square  has already repaid any commission amount to Mr S that relates to this PPI 
sale, it can deduct that sum from the redress shown above.
Ref: DRN36604873my decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require Canada Square Operations  Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3660487