K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs H held a joint mortgage  with Nationwide Building Society.  In 1998, a transfer of equity 
removing the joint party took place. This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs H took out to 
protect her repayments when she took on sole responsibility for paying this mortgage.
The PPI protected  her monthly mortgage  repayments in the event that she couldnt work  as 
a result of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees. Mainly she 
feels that the policy was mis-sold because Nationwide didnt make it clear that she was 
taking out PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
Mrs H took out this PPI at a Nationwide branch. On her transfer  of equity application I can 
see that there are Yes and No boxes next to where it asks:  Do you want PaymentGuard? 
(this is what  Nationwide Building Society called its PPI). Theres a brief description  on the 
form explaining  that it protected her monthly payments against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. So I think Mrs H wouldve seen this and understood, broadly speaking, what 
was being offered  even if she didn't know then this was called PPI. 
Mrs H has ticked  the Yes  box. She couldve ticked the No box if she hadnt wanted PPI  
this is left blank  on the form that Mrs H signed.
Mrs H has also completed a separate application  form to take out the PPI. Shes answered 
questions to check that she was eligible for the policy. Shes indicated  the type of cover  she 
wanted to have from a range of possible options.  And shes said what amount of cover  she 
required. 
Mrs H has also signed the completed application  confirming  that she agreed with what it 
says on the form. 
I dont know what Nationwide said during the meeting. And I can completely understand if 
Mrs H has forgotten some  of these  details after so long. But I cant  uphold this complaint just 
based on the way Mrs H says Nationwide Building  Society sold her the PPI. 
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
Ref: DRN37260452On balance, I think the paperwork she completed when arranging the transfer of equity and 
PPI made  it clear that it was up to Mrs H to say if she wanted to take out this insurance. And 
the type and amount of cover she indicated she wanted was added  to her mortgage  account 
when she requested it. 
Nationwide didnt advise  Mrs H to take out PPI. But it still had to make sure that Mrs H had 
enough information to make a proper decision about  whether PPI was right for her.
Ive taken into account what Mrs H has told us about her circumstances when she took out 
the PPI. Mrs H said that she wouldve had at least 6 months full sick pay. The policy 
wouldve paid out, on top of sick pay, for significantly longer - up to 24 months per claim if 
Mrs H was unable to work because  of accident or sickness. So the policy  couldve provided  
her with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mrs H had some extra  costs  as a 
result of being sick or disabled. 
The policy also paid out in the event  that Mrs H lost her job and was unemployed. And it 
looks like she couldve made multiple  claims under the policy. So it provided her with long 
term protection whilst  she was paying her mortgage.  
I dont know if Mrs H wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make  a 
claim. And I havent  seen anything to suggest that she had sufficient cash  savings  in place 
that wouldve  given  her a benefit  comparable to having PPI. 
Although she thinks she mightve also had the benefit of an endowment policy, Ive seen  no 
information about this. And it looks like Mrs H mightve had other plans for that money, since 
she chose not to cash this in when  she took over this mortgage. PPI enabled Mrs H to keep 
any endowment running to cash in later or provide her with financial security. So this doesnt  
affect my overall view.  
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Given her circumstances,  I think its likely  Mrs H mightve wanted to take advantage of the 
benefits PPI offered her. Having PPI wouldve meant Mrs H could be sure shed  always  be 
able to keep up the monthly repayments  in order  to protect her home.  I think  that wouldve 
been an important  consideration  at the time  even  if shes  now forgotten  this. 
She was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Mrs H was affected by any of the things  the policy 
didnt cover. So, I dont  think  more information about  the policy exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference  to Mrs Hs decision  to take it out. 
I dont know how much information Nationwide Building Society gave Mrs H about  what  PPI 
would cost. But it looks like she chose PPI when she didnt have  to have it  and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  for her. Mrs H couldve cancelled  the PPI without 
losing out financially if she hadnt  wanted  to pay to keep the policy  running. 
Ref: DRN37260453Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs H still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed  as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it.
This means  I dont  find that Mrs H has lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3726045