K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Ms Q says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 1995 during a branch  meeting  Ms Q took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit 
card. The policy cost 69 pence for every £100  Ms Q owed on the card and it would pay out a 
monthly benefit of 10% of the balance outstanding upon a successful claim  and would do 
so for up to 12 months.
Miss W says she was working at the time and was entitled to more than six months sick 
pay. She said she didnt  have  any other means she could  use to pay her credit  card and said 
she was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said Ms Q 
chose to take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was unsuitable for her. 
But they said Northern  Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms Q because of 
the high commission  included in her premiums.
Ms Q disagrees with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint comes  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Ms Qs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Northern Bank  made  it clear  that Ms Q didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this, it was 
after all a long time ago.
Northern Bank has provided  a copy of Ms Qs credit  card application. And here I can see 
there is a tick in the box Yes  I wish to select cover as recommended in a separate 
section about  PPI. I can also see Ms Q signed the overall application.  So I think Ms Q 
chose to take out PPI knowing she didnt have to have it.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Ms Q so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover  notwithstanding her entitlement  
to sick pay. The policy wouldve paid out alongside  any sick pay entitlement and because 
it offered a benefit of 10% of the monthly  outstanding balance, it had the potential to 
clear the outstanding balance in full.
Ref: DRN35989292Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Ms Q about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Northern  Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms Q.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms Q because : 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms Q about  that. Because  Northern  Bank didnt tell 
her, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms Q has said in making her complaint and in response to the 
adjudicators opinion. But these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Ms Q any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Ms Q any extra  
interest she paid because of that.
So Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms Q the 
difference between  what  she owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank  should  also pay Ms 
Q 8%* simple  interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms Q can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms Q.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Ms Q any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3598929