K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  
dealing with his policy. He wants an apology and more compensation.
background 
Mr M was a landlord who had a Homecare policy for a property he rented out. The toilet  
started to smell and Mr M said that a number of plumbers attended from October 2017 
onwards without sorting out the issue. In January 2018, Mr M said that a plumber removed 
the toilet and said that the problem had been caused by rats chewing through  the waste  
pipe. The plumber  then replaced the waste pan connector but Mr M said that the repair then 
wasnt completed until May 2018  as the toilet still smelt. Mr M said that in April the plumber 
made a contradictory  report about the toilet and then charged him for the cost of replacing 
the waste pipe and the related work. Mr M was unhappy about the length of time it took 
British Gas to repair  the toilet, that the original diagnosis was incorrect and said that the 
plumber said hed taken  action which he hadnt  as the repairs werent done in January.
Mr M complained to British Gas and received £200  compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the multiple visits. Mr M complained again, and noted  that hed been charged  for 
the repair and had to pay for his tenant  to stay elsewhere during the repair work in April. 
Mr M then complained to this service, saying that hed had to take medication  for stress 
caused by British Gas actions and harassment  by the tenant. 
The investigators view was that British Gas was at fault. She said that Mr M first reported  
the toilet problem  in November 2017  and nine appointments  followed  until April 2018  she 
thought this was too many  appointments. The investigator didnt accept that the difficulties 
between Mr M and the tenant  contributed  to the delay, and thought that it was poor that even 
after January,  three more  appointments  were required until the toilet  was sorted out. While 
she accepted  that Mr M personally wasnt affected  by the toilet  issue (and we wouldnt award  
compensation to the tenant  or in respect  of the tenant suing Mr M), the toilet  issue  worsened 
the relationship  between  him and the tenant and caused Mr M distress. The investigator said 
that British Gas should pay another £150 compensation to Mr M for his trouble and upset.
Mr M disagreed. He said that hed been charged for the toilet  repair,  but if the waste pipe 
was leaking Mr M thought it shouldve been fixed in January, not April. Mr M also pointed  out 
that in January, hed consented to the waste pipe being replaced and there  was no mention 
of a poor original installation in January, unlike April. Mr M thought all of the work shouldve 
been covered  by his policy and the plumber deliberately left the work uncompleted in order  
to make more money. British Gas didnt respond  to the investigators view.
Ref: DRN37949802my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I asked for more information from the parties about various parts  of the complaint. 
British Gas provided further  information about the toilet   it said that the pan connector  had 
been eaten through by rats before January and it was replaced as a short  term fix (other  
work was also carried out). It said that Mr M had been told this and that the floor would  need  
to be removed to reinstall  the waste pipe which appeared to have been badly installed. 
British Gas pointed  out that repair of items badly installed was excluded from the policy,  
which was why Mr M had to later pay for the main repair work. It commented that the 
engineer noted  Mr M and the tenant were in dispute during his visit.
I also asked Mr M for more information  about the legal  claim he said that the tenant had 
brought against him due to British Gas failings and the alleged  harassment, as well as for 
evidence that Mr M paid for the tenant  to stay elsewhere. Mr M provided evidence  of money 
that he paid to the tenant to stay elsewhere  and confirmed that no legal proceedings had yet 
been issued, though  a pre-action letter had been received (a full copy  was not given to this 
service, despite being requested, so I couldnt see if more than just the British Gas issues  
were raised).  Mr M said that the engineer told him just using putty around the toilet  would 
complete the job, but the engineers advice later changed in April.
Mr M summarised the actions of the tenant that he felt was harassment but didnt provide 
copies of all of the messages involved. Ive considered the messages shown to me, and 
while its clear that the tenant was unhappy about the toilet,  I dont think  they could  
reasonably be described as harassment. Mr M also didnt provide any independent expert 
evidence that the actions  of the tenant or British  Gas caused his health issues,  or why the 
waste pipe needed  replacement.
In light of the evidence received, Im not persuaded that Mr M should receive compensation 
for any future claim  by the tenant  or in respect of the alleged harassment  or effect on his 
health. Mr M hasnt shown that these are due to the unfair or unreasonable behaviour  of 
British Gas. 
Mr M has drains cover as part of his policy and this includes the repair of internal waste  
pipes, but with exclusions; if the waste pipe was originally poorly  fitted, its replacement  is not 
covered by the policy. I considered the issue of the toilet and what happened. Theres a 
clear dispute  in the evidence given by the parties. Mr M says that he wasnt  told that the 
whole waste pipe needed replacing  due to poor installation and was given to understand in 
January that replacing the pan connector and using putty would suffice.  British  Gas says 
Mr M was told the pan connector was a temporary fix and the whole waste  pipe would need 
replacing (which wouldnt  be covered by the policy).  I can see from the tenants  messages 
their view echoed that of British Gas position. British Gas paperwork in January refers  to 
the waste pipe being the issue.
Ref: DRN37949803I wasnt present during  the meeting between the engineer and Mr M in January so I have to 
decide whats more  likely  than not to have  happened  based  on the evidence available  to me. 
I think Mr M was told that the problem  was the waste pipe (as its on the paperwork). I think 
its also possible that there was a miscommunication and Mr M genuinely didnt understand 
that further work was required,  but I cant make a firm finding. Given  taking up the floor and 
replacing the waste pipe (at Mr Ms expense) was significant work (resulting in the tenant 
having to sleep elsewhere), I think it was fair and reasonable for it not to be done  at the 
January visit. As the tenant was always likely  to want to stay elsewhere while work was 
done, I dont think  that its fair or reasonable for British Gas to pay this cost.
But I also think that the number of visits overall was excessive to fix the problem, and 
caused Mr M inconvenience and stress. I also dont think British Gas dealt with Mr M and his 
complaint at all well. While complaints handling isnt a regulated  activity  dealt  with by this 
service, we can look at whether a business has generally acted  fairly  and reasonably.  
British Gas didnt  deal with Mr Ms complaint and its final response letter didnt address the 
issues raised. In my view,  it continued  to fail to deal with the issues raised by Mr M. I think 
this increased Mr Ms upset.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, but having considered all the 
evidence and the circumstances, I think Mr M should receive more compensation. On top of 
the £200 paid by British  Gas, I think Mr M should receive another  £250.  Mr M still clearly 
very upset,  had to attend the property  on a number of occasions  and contacted British Gas 
often to try to resolve  matters. His distress was worsened by the unfair  and unreasonable  
way British Gas dealt with his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr M appeared to disagree. He disputed 
my observation that it appeared rats had chewed  through the waste pipe and said that it had 
been the pan connector  which had been chewed.  Mr M didnt accept  that the waste  pipe had 
originally been  poorly  installed (but didnt provide any independent evidence on the point) 
and was adamant that British Gas actions alone  had caused  him to suffer anxiety  and sleep 
deprivation.
I remain of the view set out in my provisional  decision. The pan connector  and the waste  
pipe are all part of the waste system and my summary of the background was based on 
what the parties told this service. I can only make decisions  based on the evidence available 
to me, and theres  no independent evidence  to counter the view of British  Gas specialist 
engineers about  the issues with the original installation  or to show that Mr Ms health issues 
were caused  by British  Gas. I accept that British  Gas hasnt acted fairly or reasonably for the 
reasons Ive set out above, and note it has accepted my provisional view. Mr M hasnt  given 
any reasons or evidence  to persuade me that the compensation should be increased further.
Ref: DRN37949804my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and British  Gas Insurance  Limited should pay 
Mr M an additional £250 compensation for his trouble and upset.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3794980