K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2006. Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr J cant  remember much about how the sale of PPI took place, but this isnt surprising 
for a sale that took place so long ago. BoS isnt able to provide a clear  copy  of Mr Js 
application form either. But it has shown that at the time Mr J applied for his credit card 
that the PPI was presented as optional, and wouldve had to have been selected in order  
for it to be added to Mr Js account.  I havent seen anything to suggest that BoS did 
anything different when it sold Mr J PPI, so I think its likely that BoS made it clear to Mr J 
that he didnt have to take out PPI, and that he chose to do so.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr J  so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it could have been  useful  for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Mr J about  that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J and his representatives have said  but the points raised 
dont change my decision,  and for the reasons  set out above,  I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Ref: DRN38024962But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3802496