K821x#15complaint
Mr Z complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mr Z 5 loans between December  2014 and December 2016. There was a 
break in the lending of over 2 years  between loan 1 and 2. Loans 2 to 5 were provided 
between January and December 2016.  Mr Z was unable to repay loan 5 on time and it was 
repaid via a debt management plan.
Mr Z says that proportionate  checks werent carried out before the loans were provided. He 
says if these had taken place Mr Lender would  have realised  he was reliant on short  term 
loans and that the loans  werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Zs employment  and says based on the information  it gathered 
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked  what  the loans were  for and Mr Z gave 
reasons that didnt  include repaying other debts and that Mr Z didnt raise  any issue of 
financial difficulty with it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that she had seen  enough to say that loans 1 to 4 shouldnt  have 
been provided. However she thought  that by the time of loan five, Mr Zs pattern of 
borrowing together with the increasing amounts showed he was persistently reliant on short 
term loans. She thought  loan five wasnt sustainably affordable. 
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view and said it lacked detail and reasoning.  It said 
that on the figures Mr Z gave the loan was affordable and the instalment was less than his 
previous loans. It said there was no evidence Mr Z was struggling  to repay previous loans.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr Z could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN36783092the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr Z could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Zs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had enough  evidence to say that loans one to four should 
not have been provided.  I have looked  at the information gathered,  including income  and 
expenditure information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender 
should not have provided these loans to Mr Z.
However, by the time the fifth loan was provided  in December 2016, Mr Z had been  
borrowing from Mr Lender fairly consistently  since January with no significant break in the 
lending. Loan  4 was taken  out a few days after loan 3 was repaid  and he wasnt  making any 
significant inroad  into the amounts he had borrowed.  Mr Z asked to borrow  £1000 4 days  
after repaying his fourth  loan of £700.  Given this I think  that by this point, Mr Lender should 
have been concerned that Mr Z was reliant on short term loans and couldnt afford to repay 
what he was borrowing without borrowing again.
I do not agree with Mr Lenders analysis that because  Mr Z said he was not in financial 
difficulty and repaid his loans  on time (with the exception of loan five) that it was reasonable 
to lend. Mr Zs borrowing  pattern was at odds with the information he was giving to Mr 
Lender and as a responsible lender I consider that Mr Lender should have done  more before 
granting the loan to verify what Mr Z was saying.
Mr Z fell into difficulty repaying his final loan which further suggests that the loan was 
unsustainable for him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender)
Ref: DRN36783093should:
A. Add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr Z towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loan 5, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr Z which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr Z originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay the total of A and B to Mr Z.
D. Remove any adverse  information about loan 5 from Mr Zs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr Z a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3678309