K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold  her a Privilege 
packaged bank  account in 2009.  She paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Ms H opened her Co-op account as a Privilege account in August 2009. She held it for a 
number of years until she downgraded  it to a fee-free account  in September 2018.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Co-op mis-sold the packaged account to Ms H and 
didnt recommend that Co-op should  pay her any compensation. Ms H didnt agree so she 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Ms Hs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Ms Hs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think  the Privilege account was mis-
sold to her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms H was given a fair choice when  she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Ms H says she was unaware  that she had a packaged bank  account.  She says the benefits 
the Privilege account provided were irrelevant to her, because  she didnt have a personal  
mobile phone,  for example.
Co-op says that at the same  time as opening  the Privilege account Ms H also opened a 
Privilege savings account. This linked savings account was a benefit of the Privilege account  
and paid a higher interest rate than the equivalent savings account available  to fee-free 
account holders.  
Ms H says she remembers being  told about  the preferential interest rate on the savings 
account she opened  but she says she doesnt  remember being told about the fee for the 
Privilege account  itself.
Having considered what both Ms H and Co-op  have  told me, I do think its likely Ms H chose 
to open the Privilege account, and I think its more than likely shed have known there was a 
fee payable for the account.  After  all, it seems unlikely that Co-op would offer a preferential 
interest rate, better than their standard savings account interest  rate, for no reason. I accept 
that Ms H might not now remember that discussion fully, but I do think  Ms H chose the 
Privilege account  as a result  of it.
Ref: DRN31378872I dont think that Co-op recommended  the Privilege account to Ms H. So whilst it had to give 
Ms H information about the account,  it didnt  have to check  if the account was suitable  for 
her personal  circumstances.
I note Ms H says the Privilege accounts benefits were  irrelevant  to her. Shes explained that 
she only had a work mobile phone,  she owned  a car, and she had a pre-existing medical 
condition that shed been diagnosed with many  years  earlier,  which she took daily 
medication to treat.
At the time the Privilege  account was sold to Ms H its main benefits  were car breakdown 
insurance, mobile phone  insurance, and worldwide travel insurance. I understand that pre-
existing medical conditions can sometimes cause difficulties for people looking for travel 
insurance cover. But having carefully  considered the closest available  policy  document for 
the Privilege accounts travel  insurance  policy, I dont think her condition wouldve affected 
her cover or ability to claim  under  the policy. The policy includes a list of no screen 
conditions  which are automatically covered without the need to be declared. And Ms Hs 
condition appears  on that list. I do appreciate Ms H says she didnt travel often because of 
her condition, but it seems she couldve relied on the travel  insurance policy  if shed ever 
wanted or needed to.
I can also see that Ms H transferred a large sum of money  into her Privilege savings account 
 of around £48,000  a couple  of days after opening it. This further makes me think  that she 
had a discussion with Co-op about  the Privilege account, including the benefits that were 
most appealing to her. 
Co-op also says it sent Ms H a number of letters about the Privilege account over the years 
she held it  such as a welcome  pack  and information when it changed or improved the 
benefits, or when the monthly fee increased.  It also says it sent her an Annual Eligibility 
Statement each  year from January 2014, which wouldve  outlined  the accounts benefits and 
prompted Ms H to check whether they were  still relevant to her. Its also reasonable to say 
the accounts monthly fee wouldve been shown  on Ms Hs bank statement. 
I understand Ms H might not have  paid much attention to her bank statements, or indeed  to 
unsolicited mail she received from Co-op.  But on balance I do think shed have at least  
known about the Privilege  account and the fee it attracted.
I understand that Ms H she may not have wanted or used all the benefits of the Privilege 
account. And with hindsight, she might not feel as though it was good value for money  to 
her. But Im satisfied she was aware  that shed opened the account and that she had it, and I 
think its likely she knew about its main benefits,  even if she didnt go on to use them.  
I accept that its possible  that Co-op didnt tell Ms H everything it should  have about the 
Privilege account.  But because I think Ms H took the account primarily for the linked savings 
account, Im persuaded that shed  still likely  have  taken  the account,  even  if Co-op had told 
her more about it. 
I want to reassure Ms H that Ive looked at all the information I have about  her complaint. 
And Ive thought carefully about  everything shes said. But having  done so I dont think  
Co-op mis-sold the Privilege account to her. So I dont think it owes her any money.
Ref: DRN31378873my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms H but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3137887