K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Age Partnership Limited  mis-sold a lifetime mortgage  to her and her 
late husband.
background
Mrs W and the late Mr W took out an equity release lifetime mortgage through Age 
Partnership in 2010. Their  property was at that time worth £750,000 and they borrowed the 
maximum loan available at a fixed interest rate of 7.2%.
Sadly Mr W passed away in 2017.  Mrs W complained about the sale of the lifetime 
mortgage. In summary, she said:
There should have  been an option  to re-negotiate when Mr W passed away, and 
what would happen if he did should  have been  considered when the mortgage was 
sold;
If she downsized to a smaller property  there  be an early  repayment charge of as 
much as £50,000. Its not clear how the charge is calculated. Had they understood  
how much  it would  be and that it would apply  in these circumstances, they wouldnt 
have taken out the mortgage;
The value of the property has since fallen, meaning that Mrs W can no longer borrow  
as much as the mortgage balance. This means  she cant  re-mortgage  to take 
advantage of lower  interest rates that are now available. Had this possibility been 
explained to them,  they wouldnt have borrowed so much money.
Age Partnership said the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow  
£200,000 to repay a previous mortgage. This was the maximum available to them and so 
came at a higher  interest  rate than lower  borrowing amounts. The interest rate was fixed to 
protect them against future rate rises.  It was made clear that if they downsized in future  they 
might have to pay back part of the balance and pay an early repayment charge. And it was 
explained that the loan was for the lifetime of both borrowers.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mrs W asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of Mr Ws passing, and I hope Mrs W will accept my condolences.
Ive looked carefully  at the surviving evidence of the discussions  between Age Partnership 
and Mr and Mrs W at the time the mortgage was sold, and I dont think  it was mis-sold.
Ive looked first of all at why they wanted  to take the mortgage out. It seems  Mr W had 
recently retired, but Mr and Mrs W still had an outstanding mortgage  on their property. They 
wanted to pay it off to reduce their monthly outgoings. And part of the mortgage was on 
interest only terms  and while they had an endowment policy,  it seems  it wasnt on track to 
pay out enough to clear  the whole balance.
Ref: DRN32736352It seems  that the mortgage balance was around £197,000. It wouldnt be possible only to 
repay some of the balance  because then the old mortgage would continue to exist and that 
would mean  the lifetime  mortgage couldnt be taken as a first charge on the property. 
Mr and Mrs W had to have one or the other   not both. If they didnt borrow  enough  to pay 
off the old mortgage,  they couldnt borrow at all and would still have to make the payments 
each month  and deal with the endowment shortfall. This meant that, in reality, their only 
option was to borrow the full amount needed  to pay off the old mortgage.
Age Partnership explored other mortgages and other providers. Some other providers had 
fixed early repayment charges (ERCs), or ERCs  that only lasted a few years. But those other 
providers wouldnt lend Mr and Mrs W enough  to clear their old mortgage.
That means Mr and Mrs W had only two choices   borrow  at least £197,000  with Aviva, or 
not borrow at all and keep their old mortgage.
Its for that reason that I dont agree with Mrs W that they would have borrowed less if theyd 
understood they might not have  been able to re-finance the plan in the future. Borrowing less 
wasnt an option. 
A lifetime mortgage isnt designed to be repaid and re-financed during the borrowers 
lifetime. Its designed to last until death,  or until the house isnt needed  any more. This was 
clearly explained  to Mr and Mrs W at the time. So this is another reason why Age 
Partnership wouldnt have  discussed  in detail  with them the possibility of re-financing at the 
time.
It seems  Age Partnership regularly sends Mrs W marketing material inviting her to re-
mortgage or borrow more,  neither of which she can do. These mailings have, in part, 
prompted this complaint  as theyve made Mrs W aware these arent  things she can do. I 
suggest Age Partnership reviews whether its appropriate to continue sending  Mrs W 
unsolicited marketing material. 
Given their need to reduce their monthly  outgoings  and deal with the endowment shortfall, I 
think taking a lifetime mortgage  was suitable for Mr and Mrs W at the time they took it out. 
As Ive explained, this Aviva plan was the only one available that met their needs. So I dont 
think it was mis-sold to them.
I understand Mrs W is now considering  downsizing and is worried that there might be an 
early repayment charge.  Age Partnership  isnt her lender,  and isnt responsible  for setting 
the ERC.  She might  want to contact  the lender, Aviva, to discuss  whether an ERC would 
apply in her situation  and how much  it might potentially be.
Ive reviewed the information given to Mr and Mrs W at the time,  and I think  it clearly 
explained, in the format  the regulator  required,  what Mr and Mrs W were agreeing to. Age 
Partnership made clear  a lifetime mortgage wasnt  designed to be re-paid. An ERC would be 
applicable unless  it was repaid because both Mr and Mrs W had died or needed long term 
care.
There was a specific discussion with Mr W about  future downsizing.  Mr W said they had no 
plans to do so at that time. But he understood  and Age Partnership  explained   that if that 
were to happen, part of the mortgage  balance might  need to be repaid so the percentage 
loan to value stayed the same, and that an ERC might apply. So I think  Mr and Mrs W were 
Ref: DRN32736353aware at the time the loan was taken out that this position might come  up in the future  and 
decided to go ahead anyway.
I agree  that Avivas  ERCs  arent as easy to understand or calculate  as the flat percentage 
some other lenders use. But Avivas  model  is one thats allowed. Aviva lends money to its 
borrowers for their lifetimes. It uses actuarial models to estimate how long it will be until the 
mortgage is repaid  and what the likely interest  return over that time will be. If the loan is paid 
off early,  it doesnt make as much return as it would  do if it wasnt paid off early. So it 
charges an ERC to cover the lost revenue  basing  the ERC on the gilt market as a proxy. 
That basic  principle was explained at the time the loan was sold. And the mortgage  
illustration set out some examples of what  the ERC might  be  including the maximum that 
could ever be charged. Again, this is what the regulator expects. 
If Mrs W wants to know the specific gilts her mortgage is linked so she can track the ERC 
herself, she can ask Aviva.
Theres never an option in any mortgage  lifetime or regular  to re-negotiate  it when one of 
joint borrowers passes  away.  In law, the mortgage  simply transfers automatically into the 
sole name of the survivor and continues as before. So I dont think the absence of a 
re-negotiation  clause  which no mortgage  contains  means this one was mis-sold.
I agree  the interest rate is now higher than Mrs W could get if she borrowed a new 
mortgage. Thats unfortunate, and I can understand why shed like a lower rate. But this 
mortgage  like most lifetime mortgages   had a fixed  interest  rate for life. While  that means 
she hasnt had the benefit of later rate falls, it would have protected  her if interest rates had 
risen instead, as they still might. Again, I dont  think this means the mortgage was sold.
Im sorry  to hear of Mrs Ws changed  circumstances, which means  she no longer  thinks this 
mortgage is right for her. But as Ive explained,  she and Mr W had a real need for a lifetime  
mortgage and to borrow the amount they did. This mortgage was the only option open  to 
them. Its features were clearly explained to Mr and Mrs W at the time and I dont think  it was 
mis-sold.
Ref: DRN32736354my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3273635