K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside 
a Barclaycard in 2005. Mr T says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T disagreed  and said,  in summary, he 
didnt agree to take out PPI. He said he wasnt told it had been  added to his account and 
he wouldnt  have accepted the policy had he known about it.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Ive seen Mr Ts credit card application. He took out his Barclaycard in 2000 and he didnt 
select PPI at that time. PPI was added in 2005, during an in-bound sales call to Barclays.  
Barclays says PPI was explained  to Mr T and he agreed to take it. 
I think Mr T wouldve understood that PPI was an optional extra, because he didnt take it out 
when he took out the card. Ive seen a call log from Barclays internal records.  This shows  
that Mr T made a call to Barclays  about  his credit  card in 2005, and PPI was added on the 
back of that call. I think Barclays records can reasonably be relied on about  this. The call log 
was put together at a time before this complaint was in contemplation. So, I think it more 
likely that PPI was added during this call, because Mr T said he wanted it.
Barclays has proceeded on the basis that as the PPI was sold to Mr T after he took out his 
card, on the phone, this was likely  to have been an advised sale.  Ive worked  on that basis  
too. So, as Barclays  recommend the policy to Mr T, it had to consider whether it was right for 
him. It also had to give him enough  fair and clear information about the PPI to allow  him to 
make a decision himself about  whether he wanted to buy it. 
Based on what Ive seen  the PPI doesnt  look unsuitable for Mr T. I say that because:
he was eligible to take out the PPI and it appeared affordable;
Mr T said he wouldve got six months worth of full sick pay and six months worth of 
sick pay at half pay from work. He said he was in secure employment. He also said 
he wouldve been eligible to get redundancy pay. The policy wouldve paid out on top 
of his work benefits, allowing  Mr T to use these to meet  his other  household  
expenses at what might be a difficult time for him if he wasnt working.  Mr T said he 
also had some savings,  but he couldnt remember how much. I cant  see that his 
other means made  the policy inappropriate for him.
I also cant see that he was affected  by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover.  
As he couldve benefitted from everything  the policy offered, I think  it couldve 
provided him with valuable protection. 
So, I think the PPI couldve been  useful to Mr T in his circumstances. 
Ref: DRN35516242Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, I cant  see that Mr T has lost out because of this. I say this because 
the policy appeared to be suitable  for his needs if something went wrong. I think  he opted 
to take it out and he wouldve understood that he had to pay something for it. The cost of 
the PPI appeared on his statements.. So, I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking  out the cover.  
So, for the reasons given, it follows that I do not think  that this policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3551624