K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains about the value of her funds  falling after Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
moved them into its deposit funds, mainly  through ongoing deductions. She also says it 
wrongly delayed  the pay-out by insisting  on unnecessary information  and was responsible  
for the long delays.
background
An adjudicator at this service  said that the first part of her complaint was out of our 
jurisdiction i.e. we could not look into it. This is because Aviva had sent her a Final  
Response Letter (FRL)  about this issue in 23 June 2017, explaining why it had made the 
deductions, saying  that if she didnt accept  its decision she needed to refer her complaint to 
this service within six months of that letter  and she had not done so.
In this context, Aviva  said her complaint was now out of time and did not give this service 
permission to consider  it. The adjudicator agreed  with this interpretation of our rules.
He then considered  the various  reasons for the very long delay between  Miss R first 
requesting payment of her funds  and finally receiving  them.  Overall, he felt Avivas  
insistence on certain identification  documents  was fair and reasonable and that this was the 
main reason  for the delay.  To the extent that it had contributed to the delays he thought  its 
offer of £300 was appropriate.
He therefore did not recommend it offer anything further.
Miss R did not accept his verdict.
my findings
Ive firstly  considered whether Miss Rs complaint  about the ongoing deductions  (and related 
concerns about  the policies) is something we can now consider.  And for the reasons outlined  
by the adjudicator I am satisfied that this issue is outside our jurisdiction. 
Aviva responded to this issue in 2017, explaining why her money  had been  moved  into the 
deposit accounts and outlined her options  going  forward. It made clear that if she was 
unhappy with its response she had six months   under the permitted time limits  to refer her 
complaint about  this issue to our service. Miss R did not do so. As Aviva  does not consent  to 
us looking into this issue this means we cannot  now do so.
Ive then considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable when considering the issue  of the lengthy delay in the surrender of her plans.
Firstly, I am satisfied  that Aviva  repeatedly  sent withdrawal forms when requested  to do so. I 
also believe  it set out the identity documentation  it needed. From what  Ive read, Miss R did 
not provide this certified documentation for nearly two years. She was therefore responsible 
for the vast majority of the delays.
I acknowledge that Miss R sought  help in getting  the forms correctly authorised in June and 
July 2017 and Santander was not as helpful as it could have been. Its also clear that she 
was finding this situation very stressful by this point,  feeling that she had tried to surrender 
Ref: DRN34353242these policies for two years and yet was still facing  obstacles in doing so. In this context 
Santander ought to have  been more responsive and proactive.
In particular, I think Santander should have  fully explained its reasons for wanting the 
additional identification, and done  so immediately. In its Final  Response Letter, it accepted 
this and offered  Miss R £300 in lieu of this failing. But this failing did not contribute  
significantly to the two year delay,  most  of which was due to Miss R failing to send back the 
forms or obtaining the clearly-requested  certification  of the identity documents.
I therefore feel that Santanders  offer was not unreasonable and dont believe it should  pay 
more than the £300 already offered.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision 13 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3435324