K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited (SDF)  rejected his request to 
return a mobile phone.
background
In January 2018 Mr Y bought a phone from SDF. In October he contacted SDF to say the 
phone was faulty and he asked to return it. SDF advised him to take it the manufacturers 
store and obtain an independent report.  He refused and SDF then suggested he return the 
phone to be inspected. This he did and SDF sent it for inspection. No fault was found. Mr Y 
returned the phone again and it was subjected to a second inspection  and no fault was 
detected. Subsequently the business offered to cover the cost of an independent  inspection  
to be arranged by Mr Y. It said it would pay up to £45 if any fault was found. 
Mr Ys complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators  who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He noted there was no independent  evidence to support Mr Ys claim that the phone  
was broken. Without this he didnt believe he could uphold the complaint. He suggested 
Mr Y may wish to consider SDFs offer and take the phone to an independent  expert and 
provide a report.
Mr Y took his phone  to the manufactures store and it noted  what he said had been 
happening. It said there was no hardware fault and no obvious cosmetic damage.  However  it 
restored the phone and set it up as new. The adjudicator explained that this report didnt say 
there was fault and so he couldnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr Y said the 
fault was intermittent and it returned after this intervention. 
He took it back to the manufacturers store and it noted: DFU has already been performed 
on the phone that would  have eliminated  the software issue. I have set it up as new myself. 
Next step at this stage  would be to replace the device at [out of warranty] cost.
Neither the adjudicator nor SDF felt this was evidence of the fault and so the matter has 
been passed to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr Y is frustrated with his phone  and the apparent intermittent fault.  
However it is fair and reasonable that the fault be identified by an independent  expert before 
SDF be required to take it back.  Regrettably  I dont believe  the evidence  supports Mr Ys 
request. 
The phone was inspected  by a company appointed by SDF on two occasions and no fault 
was found. It was then seen  by technicians at the manufacturers store  and they didnt 
identify a fault. They recorded Mr Ys comments about the phone  and having  found no cause 
for those  or any other fault with the phone  they rebooted it. I appreciate Mr Y says that the 
fault has reoccurred,  but despite  the efforts of experts on four separate occasions none  of 
them has been  able to identify fault.
Ref: DRN31183542I have to be fair to both parties and as such I cannot ask SDF to take back a phone  for which  
there is no independent evidence of a fault. It is not sufficient for Mr Y to say the phone has 
a problem. Nor can I see anything that shows the phone was faulty  at the time he bought it. 
If there is a problem the fault may have been caused by any number of reasons including  
damage which occurred  after purchase. I believe SDF has been fair and reasonable in its 
dealing with Mr Ys claim and his complaint.
So while I do recognise Mr Ys positon, I cannot safely  conclude SDF did anything wrong 
and so I cannot uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 
23 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3118354