K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly  recalculated the 
premium for his car insurance  policy after an open claim was resolved in his favour. 
Where I refer to Advantage, this includes its agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision1 on 27 January  2020 explaining that I wasnt  minded to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  I gave  until 10 February 2020 for any further information the parties  
wanted to send me.
Advantage acknowledged receipt of the provisional  decision, but weve not heard from Mr B. 
Im satisfied that we sent the provisional  decision to the correct address and weve also 
followed up with two emails (again to the correct  one weve been corresponding with him) 
asking for any comment and letting him know that I will be issuing a final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further information  and having  thought  carefully about the reasons in 
my provisional decision, which I adopt here,  Im not reaching a different outcome. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
1 attached
Ref: DRN33073122Copy of provisional  decision 
complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly recalculated the premium for his 
car insurance policy after an open claim was resolved in his favour. 
Where I refer to Advantage, this includes its agents.
background
In November 2017, Mr B took out a car insurance policy  underwritten by Advantage.  At that time, he 
had an open claim with his previous insurers  and the outcome was unknown.  So, he correctly 
recorded it as an open fault claim  in his application to Advantage. 
The claim was settled  as non-fault in mid-2018. Mr B contacted Advantage to ask that it update its 
records and recalculate his premium. Advantage did this, but the change of claim status  increased the 
premium by £3.55. Advantage says this is because whilst the premium is based on the original rates, 
the amendment of the claim  was subject  to real time pricing as it cant retrospectively  price the 
change from the start of the insured period. In simple terms,  all factors  that are unrelated to the 
change  i.e. Mr Bs personal details; address; vehicle  etc  remain calculated at the November 2017 
rates. But the amendment  i.e. the fault claim  has been recalculated at the rates on the day the 
change was made.
Mr B didnt think this was fair, and neither  did our investigator.  She said Mr B shouldnt be 
disadvantaged by the way Advantage calculate their premiums. And in the absence  of evidence that a 
non-fault claim could attract a higher premium than a fault claim,  she wasnt persuaded that he hadnt 
been disadvantaged. She also didnt  think hed been made aware that changing the outcome of his 
open claim could have a detrimental effect if resolved in his favour. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She asked  Advantage to run new quotes  for Mr B with both a 
fault claim and a non-fault claim.  It should then work out the difference in percentage terms and apply 
any saving to Mr Bs premium, plus 8% simple  interest. She also asked Advantage to pay Mr B 
compensation of £100 to recognise  the distress  or inconvenience caused.
Advantage didnt agree,  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Its a general principle that an insurer  must treat customers fairly and wed expect to see that when  it 
comes to pricing the policy. The price of Mr Bs insurance  policy is based on the various risk factors 
he and his vehicle present together with a margin for profit. 
Mr Bs claim was unresolved at the time of taking  out his policy with Advantage.  He acted  correctly by 
declaring the claim as fault until his previous  insurers had resolved the matter and recovered its costs. 
Once it had done so, Mr B informed Advantage in order that it could amend  its records and the policy 
premium. 
I appreciate that Advantages prices are system driven. And, apparently, the system cant  rate the 
premium based on a non-fault  claim  at the time the policy was taken out, it can only use up to date 
rates. Thats not unusual as many systems are based on live pricing models.
Ref: DRN33073123In my experience of dealing with motor  insurance complaints, a fault claim usually attracts a higher 
premium than a non-fault claim. Industry practice shows that insurers record open claims  as fault,  
this is because  its usually seen as the worst-case scenario. But Advantage has provided  us with 
information that supports its approach that non-fault claims attract  a higher price loading than a fault 
claim. It is unusual  but thats the system of pricing Advantage has and applies it consistently.  So, it 
hasnt treated Mr Bs policy  any different to any other customer it has with a similar claims  history. 
I can understand what our investigator was trying to achieve  with her suggestion  that Advantage  runs 
two new quotes,  but this doesnt help. Advantage has demonstrated that it has applied the price 
loading in accordance with its pricing  system and so the categorisation of non-fault  means a slightly 
higher price. I note from the information  weve received that Advantage didnt take the £3.55  increase,  
so Mr B hasnt  lost out.
Given that Im satisfied  Advantage  has not done anything wrong I dont find a reason to require it to 
pay Mr B £100 compensation.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN3307312