K820x#14complaint
Ms W says that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Ms Ws complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Ms W or Barclays sent me any further evidence  that has changed my decision.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
Ms W has told us a bit more about the medication she took to control  her medical condition and 
also that she never took time off work  because of it and it doesnt affect her day to day life. 
So I still think that recommendation to take PPI was suitable and that the policy was right for Ms W 
and Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision.
what the business needs  to do  if it hasnt already done so
Barclays has to pay back to Ms W any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Barclays  should  also pay back to Ms W any extra interest she paid because of 
that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Ms W the difference  between  
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt been 
over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay Ms W 8%* simple interest if Ms W paid 
off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Ms W any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done  this, I dont award any further 
redress.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Ref: DRN36841342Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy  of provisional decision
Ref: DRN36841343complaint
Ms W says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Ms W bought the policy in 2007 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint  because:
I say this because,  although a copy of Ms Ws application form is no longer available,  
Ive considered what we know more widely about  how Barclays sold PPI during  
meetings around the time this policy was sold. 
I havent seen  strong  evidence  that they didnt follow their normal sales process  and I 
think that its more likely than not that Ms W was made aware  that the PPI was 
optional  before she agreed to take it out.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms W. This means they had to take reasonable 
steps to check that the policy was right for Ms W. Ms W has told us that she had a 
pre-existing medical condition at the time of sale that was a respiratory condition. 
This is relevant as, broadly speaking, this policy excluded PEMCs.  
Our adjudicator asked  Ms W for some  more information about  the PEMC to establish 
the impact that its had on her everyday life. But this information hasnt been 
received. So I cant  fairly  say that the recommendation was unsuitable  as the PEMC  
that Ms W had can have a wide range of impact  on someones life. 
In this instance, as I dont  know anything about  the impact aside from that Ms W says 
she had it, I cant uphold  the complaint on this basis. For example, I cant  fairly say 
whether Ms W would reasonably have thought that shed likely need  time off work 
because of her PEMC after taking  the PPI. 
On balance, the PPI seems to have been  right for her based on what Ive seen of her 
wider circumstances  at the time. 
As well as making a suitable recommendation, Barclays  also had to give Ms W good  
enough information about the policy so that she could decide if she wanted to take it 
out
Ref: DRN36841344  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Ms W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the other 
main things the policy didnt cover   and based on what I know  about her 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her, notwithstanding 
what Ive said already about her PEMC.  
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Ms W 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Ms Ws comments, including what shes  said about her existing 
means for making her repayments if she was unwell and unable to work or if she was made 
unemployed. But this PPI policy could  have paid out for longer than Ms Ws existing means  
would have lasted  so I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the 
policy was right for her. 
So these points dont  currently  change my decision.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold  Ms Ws complaint.
But I do intend to tell Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay back to Ms W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. But if it has already done  this, 
I dont currently intend to award  any further compensation. 
If either  Ms W or Barclays have  anything further to add, they should do so by 19 June 2019. 
Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3684134