K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the way that her accidental damage claim to her laptop  under her 
"tech pack" insurance  with Assurant General Insurance Limited was dealt with.
background
In August  2018  Ms G contacted Assurant to make  a claim for accidental  damage to her 
laptop. She had taken  it to her local branch of the manufacturer  of the laptop and had been 
advised it was beyond economic repair. But Assurant confirmed it needed to do its own 
assessment. Miss G was asked for proof of purchase which  she duly sent in. Assurant 
arranged for the laptop to be picked up, but the collection  didnt take place, so it was then 
arranged that Miss G would drop the laptop  off at a collection  point. She was advised that 
the repair would take 1-5 working days.  When she called  up during that time she was told 
that parts had been ordered.  On the 5th working  day she was told that the laptop was beyond  
economic repair  and it would take 1-3 working days to source a replacement.  Miss G bought 
a replacement herself and she was then offered a cash settlement based on the price of a 
similar refurbished  laptop.
Miss G was unhappy with the settlement  she had paid £1,574  for her new laptop  against 
the £1,309 offered to her by Assurant. She also said she had lost work, study time and 
business in the time it had taken to deal with her claim.  She also wasted a day at home 
waiting for the laptop to be collected. Assurant paid Miss G £50 as compensation for the 
wasted day and a slight delay in the laptop  arriving at the repairer.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Assurant had acted reasonably and dealt 
with the claim within its agreed timescales.  She thought the £50 paid was sufficient to 
compensate her for the delay and failure  to collect the laptop. In respect  of the cash 
settlement she pointed out that under the terms of the policy Assurant could replace the 
laptop with a manufactured (not brand new) device.  Or as Miss G requested,  pay her the 
cash equivalent.
Miss G wasnt happy. Although she noted that the delays wouldnt have made much 
difference in resolving the claim earlier, she was never offered a replacement laptop,  
although by that time she had bought a new one.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delay
Miss G made her claim on 24 August 2018. She was asked to provide  a receipt which  she 
sent by email. The receipt was uploaded and the claim considered  on 28 August.  On 30 
August the excess of £75 was taken and a collection arranged  for 31 August. Unfortunately  
the contractor didnt arrive. So Miss G agreed  to drop the laptop  off at a collection point, 
which she did on 1 September. The laptop  arrived at the collection centre on 6 September 
and processed and sent to the repair centre to arrive on 10 September.  According to the 
notes, parts  were ordered and by 17 September (at the end of the 5 working  day timescale)  
Miss G was told it was beyond economic repair. She requested  a cash  settlement and 
Ref: DRN39278222bought a new laptop on 18 September. On 19 September  Assurant  had sourced a 
replacement but offered  a cash settlement as Miss G had already bought a new laptop.
I think there was a delay  here of one day caused  by the failure  to pick up the laptop  on the 
day agreed. And I understand  Miss Gs argument  that the laptop could have been assessed  
as being beyond economic repair straightaway. But an assessment of a claim for an insurer 
is different to what the local branch  of the manufacturer will do. So I cant  criticise the delay 
by the repairer.
Otherwise, though  I appreciate it must have been frustratingly slow for Miss G the laptop 
was assessed  and a claim offer made within Assurants  timescales  under the policy. I 
appreciate that if a laptop is in constant  use for business or study  purposes,  it was a long 
time to be without one. But the policy doesnt offer a temporary replacement nor are 
incidental expenses such as lost earnings  covered. In the circumstances of the claim I think  
that the £50 paid in respect  of the delay and inconvenience  of the missed collection is 
reasonable.
cash settlement
Under the terms of the policy Assurant can offer a manufactured, not brand new,  
replacement. So it was fair for it to offer the cost of that replacement. Miss G says she wasnt 
offered a replacement, but by the time Assurant had determined that a replacement  was 
appropriate, she had already asked  for a cash settlement. She bought her new laptop  the 
day before  Assurant was able to source a replacement.  So I think Assurant acted  reasonably 
in that respect.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927822