K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt set up his motor insurance  
policy correctly.
background
Mr C applied for a car insurance policy with Admiral through a price comparison website in 
June 2018. He made a payment and understood he was insured. In December 2018, Mr C 
was stopped by the police and was told he was driving without insurance.  He had to take out 
a last-minute policy to avoid his car being taken away.  He was then fined and had six points  
added to his licence.
Mr C spoke to Admiral  after he was stopped  by police  and was told he only had a quote, so 
wasnt insured. Six months later Admiral  admitted it was a system error that caused the 
issue. And it gave Mr C a letter of indemnity which later led to Mr Cs points being  removed 
from his licence, and his fine being  refunded. Admiral reimbursed Mr C for the financial loss 
hed suffered including covering his legal fees and paying the difference  in policy premium 
for his new policy. It gave Mr C £525  compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. Mr C 
wasnt happy with this amount and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think £525  compensation was fair. He recommended  Admiral pay 
Mr C an additional £500 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him. Admiral  
disagreed. It said that Mr C didnt query not receiving documents  and it felt the 
compensation it had paid was fair and reasonable. So, it asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr C was uninsured  because  of Admirals error.  The only thing that is 
in dispute is what  level of compensation is fair and reasonable when looking at the impact 
this error  caused Mr C.
Mr C has explained that when he was pulled over by the police, he had his manager from 
work with him. So, he was caused  significant  embarrassment. Mr C also had to arrange  
alternative insurance cover at the last minute, which was expensive. And he had to spend 
time finding a more  reasonably priced  cover within his 14-day cooling off period. So, I think  
this wouldve  caused Mr C some  stress.
When Mr C contacted Admiral the next day he was told he wasnt  insured as he hadnt  gone 
past the quote point. At this point Admiral hadnt  investigated or accepted  that this was due 
to an error  with its systems. If it had, I think Mr C couldve  been given assurances or the 
letter of indemnity far quicker. It wasnt until over six months later that this was given to Mr C. 
And it was 10 months later that he was given any compensation  for this. Had Admirals error 
not occurred,  Mr C wouldnt  have  been  stopped by the police as he wouldve been insured.
If Admiral had realised its error  when  Mr C contacted  it, he may have also had a letter  of 
indemnity earlier and couldve avoided getting points on his licence, paying the fine and the 
resulting time in spending getting  the points taken  off. He had to instruct a lawyer, have 
Ref: DRN35266782multiple conversations with Admiral and his new insurer  to gather relevant details. And this 
was all due to Admirals  error. So, I think he was caused  a significant amount of trouble and 
upset.
Ive considered what Admiral said about  Mr C not querying the lack of paperwork. But as the 
error shouldnt have occurred in the first place,  I think its right that the compensation reflects 
the stress  of the situation Mr C found himself in. He shouldve  been insured, and it was 
Admirals error that meant he wasnt. The events that followed this caused him some serious 
stress, embarrassment and inconvenience.  So, I agree with our investigator that Admiral 
should pay Mr C a further £500 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Admiral Insurance Company Limited  must  pay Mr C an additional 
£500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3526678