K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the service hes received from British Gas Insurance  Limited  under  
home emergency cover. He says his boiler  has broken down numerous times since he took 
out the cover in 2014; that British Gas Insurance Limited has only provided temporary fixes; 
and that it has damaged  his roof and loft. Mr P is also unhappy with the customer  service 
hes received from British Gas Insurance Limited  and the increasing cost of the cover.  
background
Mr P complained to British Gas in 2018. British Gas didnt accept his complaint but it offered 
as a gesture of goodwill  to pay Mr P £60 (in total) and to apply a policy discount of 20%. 
Mr P remained unhappy  and referred his complaint here.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part  she recommended British Gas should send a 
relevant tradesperson  to assess  the roof tiles and repair any damage  caused, and also to 
ensure the pipe in the loft is secured  using  a bracket and not a wooden  block.  She didnt 
otherwise uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P and British Gas didnt accept  the investigators recommendation. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention a specific  point, 
its not because  Ive failed to take it on board and consider it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach the right outcome. 
Ive reached materially  the same  conclusions as the investigator, and for materially the same 
reasons. Ill explain  why.
Its common ground that British Gas wasnt (and isnt) obliged to replace the boiler under the 
terms of cover, and Im satisfied this is the case.  I appreciate that Mr P also says that 
British Gas should have advised him to replace  the boiler. But I think Mr P would have 
understood that the repairs werent  solving the issue for long. Im also persuaded that 
British Gas most likely  did advise Mr P to consider a new boiler.  So I think  Mr P was able to 
make his own decision whether he wanted to continue with repairs,  or to replace it. 
Turning to the repairs, Mr P complains  that British Gas provided only temporary fixes. I can 
well understand Mr Ps dissatisfaction with the reliability of his boiler given the number of call 
outs needed. And I appreciate this will have caused him trouble and upset, especially given, 
as I understand  matters,  his two young  children have health  conditions that may be 
worsened by the cold. However, this doesnt automatically mean that British Gas didnt  fairly  
or reasonably provide the cover available, or that it didnt complete repairs  with reasonable 
care and skill. 
Its common ground that Mr P called  out British Gas for the same fault  code on several 
occasions. But I accept  what British Gas has said about this  that, at first, it followed the 
manufacturers advice  on the fault code which prompted it to repair or replace certain parts  
Ref: DRN31630902of the boiler; and that it was only later revealed that the flue was leaking which resulted in an 
incorrect fault code.  There is a question of whether British Gas could or should have realised 
earlier what was causing the problem. But I dont think it was unreasonable  for British  Gas to 
initially follow the manufacturers advice. And I am not sufficiently  persuaded from what  Ive 
seen that it would be fair here to say British Gas failed to provide the cover  fairly and 
reasonably or without  reasonable  care and skill on this matter.
On discovering the leak, British Gas offered to fit a flue adaptor  free of charge. British  Gas 
says this was as a gesture of goodwill because the flue is excluded under  the terms of cover;  
and Mr P says it was in fact covered because it was the seal on top of the boiler  that was 
replaced (and the flue was moved  upwards to accommodate this). But British Gas carried 
out the work.  So Im not persuaded  this changes things.  
Turning to address  damage Mr P says British Gas has caused, I understand there may have 
been some  wear and tear present to Mr Ps roof tiles before British Gass work  at the 
property. However, Im satisfied from video  and photo evidence  Ive seen that Mr Ps roof 
tiles were most likely  raised and left raised  as a result of British  Gass work there. And Im 
not satisfied this constitutes reasonable care and skill, irrespective of whether or not 
British Gas has carrying out the work  as a gesture  of goodwill. To put things  right, 
British Gas should send an appropriate tradesperson to assess  the roof riles and repair the 
damage caused by the tiles being raised. Mr P would  like British Gas to pay for an 
independent tradesperson to fix this. But given the overall circumstances here, Im not 
sufficiently persuaded  to change my direction here. 
Mr P also says British Gas removed some  wood from his roof to wedge behind  the boiler 
bracket, and that it damaged his loft possessions. 
I have seen what I understand is a photo of a pipe, linked to Mr Ps boiler,  that is secured 
with a wall bracket, with a piece of wood wedged between the pipe and wall seemingly to 
support its position.  I understand  why British Gas argues  it should  not be held responsible 
for this because I have  seen notes that suggest  the pipe may not have properly supported 
before Mr P took out the cover. But British Gas agreed to fix the issues  with the boiler. And 
overall, Im just not sufficiently persuaded by what British Gas has said that the pipe should  
be supported like this, or that it would not be fair and reasonable for British Gas to remedy  
this as part of the overall  resolution  to this complaint. So Im satisfied  British  Gas should 
ensure this pipe is properly  secured  without  the wood. 
In terms of other damage to the loft Mr P has raised  for example possessions  I have  
invited Mr P to provide  evidence to support this, which he has not done. So whilst  I accept  
its possible that there was other damage to his loft and loft possessions,  Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence to conclude British Gas should do anything further here.  
Finally, I understand  Mr P is also unhappy  with the rising cost of the cover  and the customer 
service hes received from British Gas.  He says he is now paying  more than twice what  he 
paid in the first year, which I understand he believes is because  of the continuous call outs 
due to fixes that were  only ever temporary. He also says that he could get the cover as a 
new customer for less than half the current price  and he doesnt  think this is fair. 
For the reasons  Ive already explained, however, Im not sufficiently persuaded that it would 
be fair to say British  Gas failed to provide the cover fairly and reasonably,  beyond  what Ive 
said above. And on the face of things,  theres  nothing wrong with insurers putting  their prices 
Ref: DRN31630903up. Often theyll sell policies cheaply  to attract new customers and then theyll increase the 
price over the following years as they learn  more about the customer  and the level of risk. 
That said,  I would expect  an insurer to treat a customer  fairly and reasonably  when it sets 
the price for cover, and not to single  someone out or treat them differently from another 
customer with the same  characteristics. We do sometimes see cases  where a long term 
customer is paying many times  over what a new customer  might be able to find the same 
cover for. Where  thats the case we might think the relationship  has started to become 
unfair.
But here British  Gas has explained  that in the first year their customers receive an 
introductory price  and I dont think this is unreasonable. This explains why Mr P may be 
getting a cheaper  quote online as a new customer. And overall, based on the information 
Ive seen, Im not satisfied  that Mr Ps renewals have been calculated  unfairly.
Ive also reached materially the same  conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons regarding Mr Ps complaint about  the customer service hes received from 
British Gas. Its difficult to be sure from the available evidence exactly what was said at times 
between Mr P and British Gas. But overall Im not sufficiently  persuaded by the available  
evidence that British Gas were  rude or unhelpful in what I understand would have been a 
frustrating situation  for Mr P. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part, and I direct British  Gas Insurance  
Limited to:
send a relevant tradesperson to assess the roof tiles and repair  the damage caused  by 
the tiles being  raised;  and
make it so the pipe is properly secured without the wood. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3163090