K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that NRAM Limited  (NRAM):
-irresponsibly lent them a mortgage and Together loan in 2005; 
-arranged a remortgage in 2008  which increased  their debt burden and extended 
beyond their intended retirement age which ultimately led to them selling their home; 
and
-charged an interest rate on their mortgage and loan which  was much higher than the 
Bank of England  Base  Rate.
Mr and Mrs S would like NRAM  to compensate  them for losing their home and for years of 
stress and anxiety.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Northern  Rock in December 2005,  having got advice 
from a mortgage  broker.  Mr and Mrs S repaid their existing mortgage with another lender 
and consolidated some  other debts. They took out a capital repayment  mortgage of around 
£175,000 to be repaid over a 23-year  term. At the same time, they took out an unsecured  
Together loan of £30,000 from Northern  Rock, stapled to their mortgage.
In January 2008 Mr and Mrs S completed a mortgage review with Northern  Rock.  They  took 
out a new fixed  interest  rate (7.99% for two years  until 1 December 2009) and other changes 
were made to their mortgage including extending the term of the mortgage to 34 years  which 
went into their planned  retirement. 
Following the collapse  of Northern Rock later in 2008, Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was 
transferred to NRAM. 
In 2015 Mr and Mrs S became increasingly  concerned about their financial  position.  They  
were nearing  their anticipated  retirement  age and were  worried  theyd have to continue  
working into their retirement  in order to pay their mortgage and loans.  Mr and Mrs S say they 
felt they had no choice but to sell their house in December  2015 and repay  the mortgage 
and loans owed  to NRAM.
Mr and Mrs S complained to NRAM on 18 February 2019. They complained  that theyd been 
mis-sold their mortgage in 2005,  and that the remortgage in 2008  hadnt helped them. They  
were also unhappy  that theyd  ended  up having  to sell their home in 2015.  And they felt 
NRAM had acted unfairly by charging them more interest than the Bank of England base 
rate and more  than other customers at the time. 
NRAM gave its final response  to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  on 18 March  2019. It said Mr and 
Mrs S had brought their complaint about the sale of the mortgage in 2005 and the 
remortgage in 2008 out of time. NRAM didnt uphold the other parts  of their complaint. It 
didnt think it could  be held responsible  for Mr and Mrs S deciding to sell their property in 
2015. NRAM also said the interest  charged to the mortgage was correct and in accordance 
with the mortgage offer. 
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with NRAMs response to their complaint and referred  the 
matter to us. Our investigator didnt think we could  look at all parts of their complaint.  NRAM 
didnt give its consent for matters brought more than six years after the events  being  
Ref: DRN31346852complained of being looked at by our service. Mr and Mrs S has said they consider our time 
limits arent fair on them and neither  were the high interest rates applied to their mortgage.
 
I issued a decision setting  out why we couldnt look at Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the 
sale of the mortgage in 2005 or the remortgage  in 2008. These parts of the complaint had 
been brought out of time under the complaint handling time rules. I also explained why we 
would only be able to consider their complaint about the level of interest  applied  to the 
mortgage from 2013 until they repaid their borrowing  with NRAM in 2015. The period before 
2013 was out of the scope of our investigation due to the time rules.
Our investigator considered the interest  rate that had been applied to the mortgage  from 
February 2013 to when  it was repaid in 2015.  He didnt  think  NRAM has acted unfairly in 
applying its SVR to the mortgage over this period.  
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators findings. They replied to say, in summary that 
Northern Rock and NRAMs actions had a devastating impact on them. Mr and Mrs S 
strongly believe they havent been treated fairly  and they asked that an ombudsman look at 
their complaint again and reach  a decision on the matter.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already set out the parts of this complaint that we dont have the power to consider as 
they have been brought  to us out of time.  
I appreciate how disappointing  it must be for Mr and Mrs S that were  unable to investigate  a 
large part of their complaint about  their mortgage. Im aware  of how strongly they feel about 
their complaint. My decision  that were unable to look at the issues made out of time bears 
no reflection on the merits of those issues. 
I can look at the complaint  made  about the fairness  of the interest  that applied  to this 
mortgage and together  loan from 2013 to 2015.  Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that they were  
charged an interest rate on their mortgage and loan that was much higher than Bank of 
England base rate over this period.   
Ive looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  documentation to see what  this set out 
would happen  at the end of the fixed rate period. The mortgage  documentation said that 
after Mr and Mrs Ss fixed  rate of 7.99% expired, the mortgage and Together  loan would 
revert to:
a variable rate which  is guaranteed to be below Northern Rocks Standard Variable Rate, 
which is currently 6.59%, for the remainder of the term of the loan. The interest  rate is 
variable.
Ive looked at the rate of interest that applied to Mr and Mrs Ss borrowing from 2013 to 
2015. Throughout the period the borrowing was on NRAMs  special  rate. This rate was 
guaranteed to be below Northern Rock or NRAMs SVR. And, as per the terms and 
conditions the rate throughout  2013-2013  was 4.78%, which was 0.01% below NRAMs SVR 
for the same period.  As such it met the guarantee of being  lower than the SVR albeit by the 
smallest of margins.
Ref: DRN31346853The special rate of interest was unchanged at 4.78% from 2013 to 2015. Ive compared  this 
to the Bank of England  base rate which was 0.5%  throughout the same  period. 
I can see why Mr and Mrs S may have questioned why their mortgage interest rate didnt 
drop to a level as low as Bank of England base rate. But that isnt how their mortgage  was 
ever intended to work. Mr and Mrs S didnt have a tracker rate, that would follow  Bank of 
England base rate at a certain fixed margin. And it doesnt say in the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage that Northern Rocks  SVR or its special rate was directly linked to the Bank of 
England base rate, or that it would match it. 
Once their fixed rate expired  in December 2009 their mortgage and together  loan reverted  
onto NRAMs special  rate which was guaranteed  to be below SVR,  and was below SVR 
albeit only by 0.01%.  There  was no pre-agreed  margin  by which  NRAM or Northern Rocks  
special rate must track  the SVR or the Bank of England  base rate.
There were no changes  to Bank  of England  base  rate that werent passed on to the SVR or 
special rate over this period  because neither the Bank of Englands  base rate nor the SVR 
changed in the years in question. 
Ive also considered the level of NRAMs SVR compared to other similar lenders at that time 
and the level of SVR is broadly in line with what  other  comparable  lenders SVR rates were 
at that time.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with many  aspects of the mortgage they had with NRAM. And I 
can appreciate why they felt trapped on NRAMs reversionary rate. Following the 
nationalisation of Northern Rock, it had stopped offering new mortgage products to its 
customers. There are competition laws which prevent a government-owned lender  being in 
direct competition with other banks. For this reason, Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  which  was 
managed by the state-owned NRAM, says it couldnt offer new rates. And, to that extent, it 
wasnt treating Mr and Mrs S any differently to any of its other  customers. 
Mr and Mrs S probably had limited options with other lenders too. There may have been 
other interest rate deals  in the market that were more competitively priced than NRAMs 
SVR or special rate. And Mr and Mrs S didnt have an early  repayment charge to pay if they 
wanted to remortgage  elsewhere. However, I accept  there  were  other  practical barriers, such 
as the high loan to value  of their borrowing, that would  have  made it very difficult to find 
another lender who would offer them a mortgage.  As it is, Mr and Mrs S repaid their 
mortgage in 2015 having sold the property.
In terms of the part of this complaint I can consider, regarding the fairness  of the interest rate 
in comparison to Bank of England base rate, I dont think NRAM made a mistake  in applying 
interest to Mr and Mrs S mortgage  or Together loan. And I dont think  that the level of the 
special rate was so high that it could  be considered  unreasonable  or unfair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2020.
Ref: DRN31346854Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3134685