K820x#14complaint 
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) allowed the amount of a direct debit, as 
well as the beneficiary it was paid to, to be changed without asking him. 
background
Mr K took out a direct debit with a company that Ill call A. A was taken over by another 
company, that Ill call B. After this happened, the amount of money  that was being  taken 
over by B went up.
B wrote to tell Mr K about this, but they didnt have his right address, so Mr K didnt get the 
letter. When  he found out, Mr K complained to B and they refunded Mr K the extra money.  
Mr K knew  that once hed signed the direct  debit mandate  the amount taken out could go up. 
But he thought  that it was wrong that Santander has swapped the direct debit to another  
company without asking  him.  
Santander has checked, and they havent  got a new direct debit mandate from B. They  were  
still paying under their mandate for A.  
Our investigator thought that when  B took over A, it took over the payment records and so 
they wouldnt have  to set up a new mandate.  Santander just followed the direct debit 
mandate that they had and so she found that they hadnt done anything wrong. Mr K 
disagreed, saying that he still didnt understand why the mandate had become payable  to a 
different service provider.  So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether Santander should have told Mr K that the direct debit 
had changed from A to B.  I dont  think  it should have done, and I believe that it has acted 
fairly here. Ill explain why. 
Santander had the direct debit mandate to pay A, and paid it as they were supposed to for 
several months.
 
As there is only one mandate  I think that what happened here is that B took over A, and 
carried on taking the payments  under  this mandate. Mr K clearly  wasnt  aware that this had 
happened, but thats not Santander fault here.  
Santander has confirmed  that it couldnt see any changes  to the beneficiary of the direct 
debit. But even if it had, its said this would be unlikely to have affected the mandate  that was 
in place.
So overall here, I think Santander did what they were supposed to do. They continued to pay 
the direct  debit as the mandate itself hadnt changed, even if the trading name  of the beneficiary  
company may have  varied. So I cant see that they have done anything wrong here. 
I know that Mr K will be disappointed by this, but I dont uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN35926652my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3592665