K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs C complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold Mr M a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 2004 in connection with a mortgage.
background
Mr M and Mrs C complained to this Service. They said they applied for a re-mortgage in 
2004. They  cannot recall the details about  how the PPI policy  started but they sent us Mr Ms 
policy schedule and say they didnt need PPI; they thought it was part of the mortgage 
repayments. The policy schedule  says the PPI started on 1 July 2004. They think Bradford  & 
Bingley sold him the policy in 2004.  The policy  only covered  Mr M, so sometimes I will only 
refer to him, as appropriate.
Bradford & Bingley  said it was not responsible for looking at this complaint. Our adjudicator  
thought Bradford & Bingley sold the policy. Bradford  & Bingley disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.  
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  where I explained why I thought  Bradford & 
Bingley probably  was responsible for looking at Mr Ms and Mrs Cs PPI mis-sale complaint. 
This part of my provisional decision was accepted by both parties, so I will not be looking at 
that issue again in this final decision.
I also rejected the mis-sale complaint in my provisional decision. Mr M and Mrs C disagreed 
with that part of my provisional decision and asked me to look at the mis-sale again. 
However, they did not provide any new evidence  for me to consider, so I have no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done that, Im not going  to uphold Mr M and Mrs Cs complaint.  I know  this will 
disappoint them so Ill explain why.
Mr M and Mrs C specifically complain  they thought they were paying for PPI as part of the 
mortgage repayments. Ive considered this complaint point very carefully. Bradford & Bingley 
cant produce any PPI documents from the sale to show that Mr M and Mrs C were told 
PPI was optional.  But this policy was sold over twenty years ago, and Im not surprised that 
some of the original documents arent  now available. I also think Mr Ms and Mrs Cs 
memory of the events  is, understandably,  not as clear as it might  be about  the process 
because it happened  a long time ago. 
I noted that Mr M and Mrs C clearly decided  to protect Mr Ms income only,  so I think they 
must have  realised they didnt have to have  PPI and that they could change  it to suit their 
own circumstances.
Ref: DRN37361312Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Mr Ms and Mrs Cs version of events is 
what is most likely  to have happened. So it seems more likely to me that - rather than not 
being told they had an option to take out the policy - Mr M and Mrs C spoke to a 
representative who told them it was optional and they consented to buy it to cover Mr M only.  
Mr M could  not remember if the sale was advised.  For the purposes of this decision, Ill treat 
this as if it was an advised  sale so I can look at both the suitability of the product and the 
information Mr M was given. 
Ive seen the policy schedule, so I think Mr M was eligible to buy the policy.  I think  it was 
probably affordable  for him and I dont think he was affected by the things not covered in the 
policy (the exclusions). So I think it probably  was suitable for him. 
Mr M said he did not need the insurance but he told us he would only have received three 
months sick pay and had less than the equivalent of three months salary in savings and 
insurance. I noted the policy  would have paid out £650 per month  for up to 12 months on a 
successful claim, so I think Mr M and Mrs C would have had some benefit from the PPI 
policy if Mr M couldnt work due to accident or sickness.
Id also expect the main  features of the policy to have been pointed out to Mr M  like the 
exclusions. I dont  know how the exclusions were pointed out to them,  but I think  its unlikely 
Mr M wouldve been affected by any of the main ones. So even if he did read a full list of the 
exclusions, I dont  think it wouldve  changed  his mind about buying  PPI.
I dont know how the cost was explained to Mr M and Mrs C, but it seems  it was affordable 
for them at the time. So I dont think theyd have  refused the PPI if theyd been given more 
cost information  about it. 
So I think Mr M and Mrs C probably consented to the PPI being  added to the mortgage 
account. I think it was suitable  for their needs and I dont think they wouldve decided  against 
taking it if they had been given more information.  
Taking everything into account,  Im not going  to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3736131