K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Calpe Insurance company Limited (Calpe) unfairly  declined  his claim 
and pursued him for the cost of the other  drivers claim following  his involvement in an 
accident.
background
In April 2018, Mr M was involved in an accident where  he hit another car head on while  
overtaking another vehicle.
Mr M was prosecuted for driving  without  due care and attention under the Road Traffic Act 
1988 (RTA) and was given a three month  ban.
Because of this, Calpe  declined Mr Ms claim relying  on the following exclusion in the policy:
General Exceptions
1 The Company shall not be liable in respect of any claim  arising while Your 
Car is being used or driven:
(l)If you or any appropriate driver is negligently in breach  of the Road Safety Act 
2006, except where  the underwriters are required to provide this cover under the 
Road Traffic Acts or any other legislation applicable  to motor insurance.
Calpe did pay the other drivers claim as it was required to under the RTA and has since  
been pursuing Mr M for the recovery of these costs.
Mr M complained to Calpe about  this. It said it had acted in accordance  with its terms and 
conditions and was unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He says he was 
prosecuted under the RTA and so this doesnt  mean he breached  the Road Safety Act 2006 
(RSA). Therefore, he didnt breach the terms and conditions  of the policy  and Calpe 
shouldnt decline the claim based  on this. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, she said:
Calpe  had fairly declined the claim as because Mr M had been found  guilty of being 
in breach of the RTA, he must also be in breach of the RSA. 
It was reasonable  for Calpe to pursue Mr M for the other drivers claim costs.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  Ive only addressed those issues  I consider  
to be materially relevant to this complaint.  However, Ive given careful consideration to all of 
the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
  
Ref: DRN35528802Calpe has relied  on the term mentioned above to decline  Mr Ms claim and so I need  to 
decide if its fair and reasonable  for it to do so. In order  to do this, I have thought  about  the 
purpose of the policy and the term itself. Having  done so, I think that its fair and reasonable 
for Calpe to rely on this term Ill explain why.
The intention of a fully comprehensive motor  insurance policy is to offer peace of mind to Mr 
M  and other consumers  who buy it  that if he should have  an accident or loss, while  the 
policy is in place, hell be put back in the position  he was in before the event  occurred. So, 
the purpose of the policy is clear - its to cover Mr M for a loss or accident he has which falls 
within the policy terms.
All policies  on the market  set out the terms under which the insurer  will pay a claim and have 
exceptions of when  they will not cover a claim.  In short, the terms are the rules or 
expectations on both parties to the contract  and aim to limit the risks that the insurer  would 
deem to be unacceptable to it.
I have thought about the intention of the exclusion noted above  and looked  carefully  at the 
wording Calpe has used  when it was defending its repudiation  of the claim. It said:
The Policyholder  is disputing this as he was convicted of Driving  Without Due Care 
and Attention  under  the Road Traffic Act, not the Road  Safety  Act. However,  the 
policy document doesn't say that he had to be prosecuted  under the Road Safety 
Act, only negligently in breach of the Road Safety Act.
The meaning of Driving Without Due Care  and Attention for the purposes  of the Road 
Traffic Act was defined in Section 30 of the Road Safety Act as shown below: 
(1) 
(2) A person is to be regarded as driving  without due care and attention  if (and only 
if) the way he drives  falls below what would be expected of a competent  and careful  
driver.
(3) 
(4) 
As the behaviour which led to the Policyholders conviction is set out in the Road  
Safety Act (and such behaviour led to his conviction  under the Road Traffic Act) we 
believe we were correct  to assert that his driving behaviour  at the time of the accident 
was a breach  of the Road  Safety  Act and therefore indemnity can be refused under 
terms of the policy. (my emphasis added).
There isnt a definition  of negligently in the policy, so Ive thought  about  the ordinary use of 
the word.  The definition of acting negligently in the Cambridge English Dictionary is:
in a way that is not careful enough, or does not give enough  attention  to people  or 
things that are your responsibility
So only negligently in breach of the RSA just means Mr M was not careful enough when 
driving at the time of the accident.  While it can be argued that any accident is a result of a 
moment of carelessness, Im satisfied the accident was as a result of more than this. I say 
this because the Police felt that Mr Ms driving  at the time fell far enough below what  is 
expected of a careful and competent driver to bring  charges, and those  charges  later led to a 
prosecution and a driving ban. 
Ref: DRN35528803Based on this I think there is enough evidence for Calpe to rely on its exclusion  and fairly  
decline Mr Ms claim. It follows that I also think its fair for it to recover  the cost of the other 
drivers claim, although  it should work out a suitable arrangement with Mr M for this.
my final decision
For the reason  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3552880