K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that hes been mis-sold a card payment terminal by Card Saver Ltd. To 
settle matters hed like to end his agreement  with them.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ns complaint in my provisional decision.  In that decision I 
explained why I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. Below  Ill summarise  the 
background to this complaint and my provisional  findings, so that all relevant information  is in 
this one decision.
Mr N entered into an agreement for the use of a terminal for taking  card payments for his 
business. He says he was told hed be able to receive live updates  of payments received 
through the online portal. But he says he wasnt able to see payments for up to 48 hours  
later. He thinks the terminal  was mis-sold and hed like to end his agreement.
Card Saver  says its not possible for the portal  to provide live information. This is because 
transactions need to be processed  by banks first. They also say Mr N was told hed receive 
up to date information, but not live information.  Card Saver  says no mistake  has been  made.  
However, as a gesture of goodwill,  they agreed  to offer new contract  terms to him with a 
different merchant acquirer to allow for faster transactions  and for a shorter  period  than his 
existing contract.
Mr N doesnt want to vary his contract  instead,  he wants to be released from it. Unhappy  
with Card Savers response he brought his complaint to this service.
When our investigator looked  into Mr Ns complaint they concluded that the card terminal  
had been mis-sold. As there was no documentation  or record of telephone  calls to show  
what was discussed  between Mr N and the salesperson  at the point of sale, the investigator 
instead considered what  was most likely to have  been discussed  at the time.
The investigator thought  it more likely  than not Mr N had made clear  that he wanted  to view 
his transactions  quickly. He also noted  that Mr N had complained about the problem soon 
after hed acquired the terminal. So the investigator thought the terminal had been mis-sold 
because an appropriate  alternative was available at the time that would have suited his 
requirements better.
Our investigator recommended that Mr N should be removed from the contract and that he 
should receive a refund  of fees for the months where he didnt have use of the terminal and 
8% simple  interest per annum - as he didnt have use of his money.
Card Saver  disagreed with the investigators view.  It said the online portal is an additional  
function  which didnt form part of the terms and conditions Had Mr N told them it was 
fundamental for him to view his transactions quickly they said they could have placed him 
with a different  online portal provider at the outset   and they had no reason not to do so, 
because it wouldnt have  had any negative affect on them.
At the time they placed  Mr N with an online portal provider that didnt make  a monthly charge 
 which  they thought  would be better  for him. And they say they offered  to switch Mr N to a 
different online  portal once they realised he was unhappy with his existing provider.
Ref: DRN31073072summary of my provisional findings
I set out in my provisional decision that I didnt  intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
I explained that we didnt  have any records of the conversations  that took place at the time 
Mr N entered into his Card Payment  Services Agreement, so my decision was based on 
what I thought  was most likely to have happened.
I looked at the Card  Payment Services Agreement signed by Mr N in November 2018. The 
services to be provided by Card  Saver were stated as including  the provision of a terminal  to 
carry out payment  transactions,  and to configure  the payment terminal  with appropriate 
software to process payment transactions. The agreement also said that Card Saver  would 
auto-enrol all customers for access to an online portal for a small monthly charge.
However, the Card  Payment Services Agreement didnt  include any information at all about 
the level of service that a customer can expect in terms  of the time taken for transactions to 
update. And neither does  it give any detail  about  how much a customer  has to pay for 
financial transactions to be processed. Card Saver says there was no separate contract for 
the online portal.
I didnt doubt it was important for Mr N to be able to view his transactions  quickly and I also 
thought it likely that hed made this clear to Card Saver at the time. But I was inclined to 
agree with Card  Saver that they wouldnt have agreed to provide live updates, given  that 
they say this was impossible.
Card Saver  also confirmed  that if Mr N had made  clear he required faster  updates at the 
time then they could  have placed him with a different online portal provider. They  confirmed 
they had nothing to gain by doing  this - but this would have cost Mr N more  money.  I dont 
have any reason to doubt this, so I think Card Saver acted fairly by giving Mr N an option  
that was cheaper for him.
I was satisfied that when Mr N complained about terminal speeds  - shortly after he 
acquired the terminal - Card Saver acted promptly to try to resolve matters  for him. They  
offered revised  terms with a different online portal  provider who could offer faster  speeds.  
So I thought  Card Saver had treated Mr N fairly  and it was for Mr N to decide if he wished 
to accept the revised terms which Id expect Card  Saver to honour.
submissions following my provisional decision
Card Saver  didnt provide  any further comments for my consideration.
Mr N disagrees  with my provisional  decision.  Ive summarised his points below.
in my provisional decision I said at the time they placed Mr N with an online provider 
that didnt make  a monthly charge. Mr N says this is incorrect  as he was charged for 
using the online  portal.
in my provisional decision I said Card Saver offered to switch  him to a different online 
portal when they realised he was unhappy with the existing provider. Mr N says the 
reason he brought his complaint to our service is because  Card Saver told him it 
wasnt possible for his transactions to show in less than two days.
I said I was inclined to agree with Card Saver that they wouldnt have agreed to 
provide live updates as theyd said this was impossible. But Mr N referred me to an 
email sent by Card  Saver which  confirmed  as follows: if you have a PAX terminal, 
the transactions on theportal will be visible 5-10 minutes after the transaction is 
Ref: DRN31073073done. He cant understand how they can go from saying its impossible to get live 
transactions to saying  its possible to get them within 5 minutes.
he says he made  it very clear  when he took out the contract that he wanted to be 
able to see transactions come through on the portal as they happened. When he 
complained to Card  Saver they told him this wasnt possible but after he brought his 
complaint to this service he says Card Saver rang him to say they could sign him up 
to something where he could  get live transactions. He didnt go ahead with this 
because he discovered there  was a hidden transaction cost that Card Saver hadnt  
explained to him. Out of principle he decided not to sign up to this contract  as he 
didnt want anything  further to do with Card  Saver.
hes since signed up to a different provider which is more expensive  but he can view 
live transactions and he says this shows  he was more  concerned  about the service, 
rather than the cost of the service.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  
Mr N but I havent seen any new information to cause me to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
When we consider complaints about  the hire of a payment terminal,  Id normally  expect to 
see two agreements: one for the hire of the payment  terminal  in this case  the Card 
Payment Services Agreement and a separate agreement from the merchant providing 
card-acquiring services  and which  would set out the payment  services being provided. I 
havent seen a copy of the agreement with the merchant  providing card-acquiring  
services.
In the circumstances of this complaint,  however, I dont have all the information Id ideally 
like. In particular,  I dont have copies of the call recordings  made  between  Mr N and Card  
Saver at the time. The Card Payment Services Agreement  provided only appears  to 
relate to the hire of the payment terminal. It says nothing that requires Card Saver  to 
process card payments or about  the timescales within which  card payments would be 
processed and visible.
Ive seen email correspondence between Mr N and Card Saver  that refers  to a separate  
agreement between Mr N and the business  providing the card payment services, that Ill 
refer to as E. We asked  Mr N to provide a copy of this agreement and we also asked him 
to provide any invoices  between  him and Card  Saver that might show  he was invoiced for 
services in addition  to the hire of the terminal.
Mr N hasnt provided any documents  for my consideration to show  that Card  Savers 
obligations extended beyond the hire of the payment terminal and the portal. And neither 
has he provided for my consideration any separate agreement  between him and the 
merchant who provided card acquiring services. So I cant  fairly say Card Saver was 
required to provide anything other than the hire of the payment terminal and the related 
services detailed in the Card Payment Services Agreement.
Based on the correspondence Ive seen I think its more likely than not that pre-contract 
discussions took place  about transaction speeds.  So Ive also considered whether Card 
Saver made a misrepresentation to Mr N about how quickly transactions  would be visible  
 and which induced  him to enter into the contract.
Ref: DRN31073074I dont doubt it was important for Mr N to be able to view his transactions quickly  and I 
also think its likely he made this clear  to Card Saver at the time.  But Im still persuaded 
that Card Saver wouldnt  have agreed  to provide live updates, given that theyve told us 
this is impossible.
In terms of the email  Mr N referred to me in which Card Saver  confirmed payments will be 
visible within  5-10 minutes when using a PAX machine, I dont see that this is relevant. I 
say this because  it was made by Card Saver after hed entered  into the terminal  hire 
agreement  so it doesnt show what was said at the time the agreement  was made. The 
statement also appears to have been  made about  a PAX terminal  and this appears to be 
a different model  of terminal to the one Mr N hired.
Card Saver  also confirmed  that if Mr N had made  clear he required faster  updates at the 
time then they could  have placed him with a different online portal provider. But they 
explained that they instead gave him an option  that was cheaper  for him. Mr N has told us 
that the cost didnt matter to him but Im not persuaded by this because hes told us that 
the reason he didnt  accept Card Savers revised  terms  and with a shorter  contract term 
was because Card  Saver  didnt disclose a transaction fee to him. So I think Card Saver 
acted fairly  in providing an option  that was cheaper for him.
When Mr N complained about terminal speeds shortly after he acquired the terminal,  I 
think Card Saver  acted  promptly to try to resolve  matters for him. I can also see that they 
offered revised  terms to him with a shorter contract  period  and with a different online 
portal provider who could offer faster speeds.  I realise Mr N says he didnt  want  to sign up 
to new terms because  Card Saver didnt disclose all transaction charges. But I think Card 
Savers explanation  about the omission  is plausible.
I realise Mr N had his reasons for not wanting to agree revised terms with Card  Saver  and 
I realise hes since entered into an agreement with a different provider at a greater cost to 
him. However, on balance  I think Card  Saver acted fairly in trying to provide solutions  for 
Mr N once they became  aware of the issues he was experiencing.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3107307