K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about five logbook loans  provided which  were  provided to him by 
Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G).  He says it was irresponsible for L2G to give him these loans as 
his credit file wouldve  shown defaults,  missed  and late payments and several payday loans. 
So better checks wouldve  shown  he shouldnt have been given these loans.
background
Mr J was provided with an initial loan, with a 12 month  term, of £300 in October 2013. There 
were, at least, three top-ups, which resulted  in a new loan agreement being  signed and 
funds from the new loan being  used  to settle  the balance on the previous one. 
L2G provided Mr J with a total of five log book  loans between  October  2013 and April 2016.  
Mr Js borrowing history is as follows: 
Loan Amount  Date taken Settled Consolidation Term Repayment
1 £300 October 2013 April 2014 None 12 months £63.89
2 £400 (£650)* April 2014 November 2014 Loan 1 12 months £73.33
3 £500 February 2015 November 2015 None 12 months £91.67
4 £700 (£966.64)* November 2015 April 2016 Loan 3 12 months £135.33
5 £850 (£1465.68)* April 2016 June 2015 Loan 4 24 months £128.92
*includes funds  borrowed  to repay previous  loan
Our investigator looked at Mr Js complaint  and she concluded that Mr J shouldnt  have been 
provided with any of his loans.  L2G disagreed with our investigator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. As a result,  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
the legal and regulatory framework
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
L2G gave Mr J his first loan in the period up to the end of March  2014. During this time it 
needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order  to carry out 
consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
Ref: DRN33431572(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Mr Js case.
Ref: DRN33431573The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Ref: DRN33431574Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Ref: DRN33431575Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
Ref: DRN33431576fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. The ILG was amended  to reflect any 
changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive  and an additional  requirement  on a 
lender to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in section 55B of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in 
force until regulation of Consumer Credit providers  passed to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making  a regulated consumer credit agreement,  other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided  under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from
(a)the debtor,  where appropriate,  and
Ref: DRN33431577(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement  if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes  an article  in pawn..
By the time of loan two and for all of Mr Js subsequent loans (1 April 2014  onwards)  this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the 
rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority  (from 1 April 2014)
L2G gave Mr J loans  two to five after regulation of Consumer  Credit Licensees had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. 
L2G initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit  before it went on to 
successfully apply for authorisation as a consumer credit provider. L2Gs interim permission 
to provide consumer  credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it was subject 
to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like L2G. CONC also 
replaced the requirements set out in Section  55B CONC  5 sets out a firms obligations in 
relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations  after a consumer 
has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following 
extracts, the FCAs CONC  rules  specifically note and refer back  to sections  of the OFTs  
Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
Ref: DRN33431578(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
Ref: DRN33431579(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mr Js loans were given to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit  Act came into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
Ref: DRN334315710(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
CONC and the ILG set out the regulatory framework that authorised/regulated consumer 
credit providers have  to adhere  to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms.  And as 
Ive explained,  Im also required to take into account  any other guidance,  standards, relevant 
codes of practice, and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
Ref: DRN334315711On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all 
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter  set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
Ref: DRN334315712my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did L2G, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mr J would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr J wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where L2G ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Js indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that L2G didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr J and that he 
has lost out as a result,  I will then go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did L2G, each time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mr J would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way?
Regulations in place throughout the period when L2G was lending to Mr J required it to carry 
out a reasonable assessment of whether Mr J could afford to repay his loans in a 
sustainable manner.  This is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or 
affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so L2G had to think about 
whether repaying  the loan sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences  for 
Mr J. In other words, it wasnt enough  for L2G to think only about the likelihood that it would 
get its money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr J himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN334315713the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Before I look in more  detail at whether the checks that L2G completed for each  of Mr Js 
loans were proportionate, I want to start by making  a couple of observations on the 
arguments L2G has made. It has said that it reviewed the affordability of all loans where the 
loan packs are to hand and can confirm  they were  all deemed  affordable.
As far as I can see it only had the loan packs for loans three and five to hand. And theres  no 
explanation of whether L2G means the loans  were deemed affordable at the time of 
application, or as part of a review into Mr Js complaint. Crucially  theres  no explanation on 
what exactly it was  other than reviewing  the loan packs  to hand  that led L2G to deem  
that all of the loans were  affordable.
L2G has simply provided some loan packs without any narrative  on what  any of this 
information means. Considering that this is information that L2G says it used to inform its 
lending decisions,  its disappointing that L2G has been unable  to tell me what it reveals 
about Mr Js circumstances when  he applied for his loans. 
This service cannot and will not search through dozens of pages of information (some of 
which is coded) looking  for evidence to support L2Gs defence of Mr Js complaint. If L2G 
cant describe what the information it has provided shows about  Mr J and why this means it 
was reasonable  for it to lend, then I cant and wont put any weight on it. Without any 
explanation from L2G on this matter,  I wont simply take it as read that its lending  decisions 
were fair. 
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
Its important to note that loan one was Mr Js first with L2G. And although Mr J was being 
expected to maintain payments for a year,  the monthly payments were relatively low. So it 
could be argued  that a relatively light touch income  and expenditure assessment  mightve 
been proportionate in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN334315714That said,  Mr J was given a logbook  loan. So the loan was secured on his car and he 
mightve lost it if he was unable to make his payments. And given these implications, I think 
that a proportionate  check ought to have reflected this. In these circumstances, I wouldve 
expected L2G to have verified  at least some of the income and expenditure information 
gathered. L2G cant even  show me the information  it gathered for loan one, let alone  what if 
anything it verified. And it hasnt provided anything on the information gathered  prior to loan 
two and three. 
L2G might  have thought that a light touch check was proportionate because  Mr Js car 
provided security. But I dont think that this was enough to constitute  a borrower focused 
assessment. And I dont  see how this considers the impact of the repayments  on Mr J. As 
Ive explained,  L2G appear to have relied on similar checks, or at the very least it cant 
evidence having  done anything differently, for loans two and four either. 
For loan three, L2G has provided a copy of an income and expenditure questionnaire  that it 
completed. It has also provided  the results of a credit check  which it carried  out. This shows 
that Mr J had either taken,  or applied for, a number of short-term  loans  in the period leading 
up to the application. L2Gs notes and statement of account also show that Mr J had late 
payments on loan one and two. 
Given what Mr Js borrowing  history and the information L2G gathered  had shown, I dont 
think it was fair, reasonable or proportionate  for L2G to simply rely on what  was completed 
on an income and expenditure questionnaire  as being an accurate reflection of what  Mr J 
was likely to be able to afford. Bearing in mind all of this, I think that it wouldve been fair 
reasonable and proportionate to have taken  further steps to verify the information on the 
questionnaire. 
L2G carried out similar checks  before providing  loan five. And the credit  search  it carried  out 
showed that Mr J now had defaults  and that a debt collection agency was carrying out credit 
search on Mr J. Hed also accrued even more  late payment fees during the course of loans 
three and four.
L2Gs confidence that it would get its money  back mightve meant  that it was happy  to lend. 
But the evidence  it had by this stage  didnt support the loans being affordable. In fact Mr Js 
history of persistently  making late payments, the defaults and the presence of searches from 
debt collectors on his credit file strongly suggested  the opposite  was the case. L2Gs failure 
to react  to what it was seeing and do more  to assess the issues as well as the potential 
impact of granting even  more credit to Mr J leads me to conclude that its checks  for all of 
these loans werent fair, reasonable  or proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on Mr Js loans  have indicated  to L2G that he would have been 
unable to repay his loans  in a sustainable  manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check  for the earlier loans wouldve 
involved finding out  for example  about  Mr Js normal  monthly outgoings and regular 
financial commitments. And as the lending continued I wouldve expected  L2G to have found  
out more about the concerns, Ive set out in the previous section of this decision,  and to 
assess the potential  impact of granting  further  credit.
As L2G didnt carry out proportionate  checks for these loans, I cant say for sure what 
proportionate checks would most  likely have shown.  So I need to decide whether it is more  
Ref: DRN334315715likely than not that fair, reasonable  and proportionate affordability checks  wouldve  told L2G 
that it was unfair to offer these loans to Mr J.
To help us understand for ourselves what L2G would more likely than not have discovered if 
it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr Js loans, we asked Mr J to 
provide us with his bank statements. 
Having carefully considered the information, I think that a detailed review  of Mr Js financial 
circumstances before loans one and two, would have shown that he was making payments 
to unsustainable  short-term financers. In my view,  fair reasonable and proportionate checks  
would more likely than not also have shown that Mr J was gambling significant  sums of 
money. And that his ability to repay loans these loans was almost entirely dependent on his 
success as a gambler.  
So, in these circumstances,  it was more likely than not that Mr J was unlikely to have been 
able to repay these  loans  without undue difficulty.  
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
L2G ought reasonably to have realised  it was increasing Mr Js indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
For the sake of completeness, I think that its also helpful for me to explain that even though  
I did do so, I dont think that it was necessary for me to have recreated affordability checks 
for loans  three to five. I say this because in addition to assessing the affordability of each 
individual loan provided to Mr J by L2G,  I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the 
overall pattern  of lending. 
Im mindful here relevant  rules and guidance   as summarised in the earlier  part of this 
decision makes it clear  that a lender shouldnt continue lending where the loans  are 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent that the customer  may be 
experiencing financial difficulties.
And I think that by loan three, L2G ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Mr Js 
loans had become  unsustainable or otherwise harmful. Ive set out most  of the reasons for 
this in the section on why I dont think L2Gs checks were proportionate. But the factors that 
lead me to conclude  that L2G ought  to have realised  the loans from loan three were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
Mr Js late payments  on loan one and two
the defaults and debt collection searches on Mr Js credit file 
Mr Js applications for advances against  income or payday loans
All of the above were clear  indicators  of Mr J being  in a difficult financial position. And 
bearing in mind L2Gs obligation  to monitor Mr Js repayment record and offer assistance 
should it appear that he mightve been  experiencing financial  difficulties, I think  that L2G 
shouldve offered assistance and/or a product  that would allow  him to sustainably repay what  
he owed. 
But instead  of doing this, L2G instead kept consolidating  Mr Js borrowing into further  loans. 
Increasing the amount he had to find each  month  as well as her overall indebtedness. 
Ref: DRN334315716Indeed Mr J started out with a loan requiring 12 monthly payments of around £64 in October  
2013. And by the time of the final loan Mr J was required  to make payments  for double the 
amount for double  the period of time. 
So I think that L2G ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans from loans 
three onwards were  unsustainable  or otherwise harmful for Mr J and were unfairly and 
excessively increasing  his overall indebtedness.  And so it shouldnt have provided these 
loans to Mr J.   
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that L2G acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr J in some 
other way.  
Did Mr J lose out as a result of L2Gs shortcomings in relation to these loans?
I think that Mr J did suffer  adverse consequences  as a result of L2G unfairly giving him these 
loans. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness  to L2G by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  over an extended period of time. These loans were 
very expensive. And Mr J ended up having to commit more  and more of his income towards  
the monthly payments. Ive already spoken about  the impact  this had on his finances. And 
I think that the overall cost of these loans  unfairly prolonged what  was an adverse and 
precarious financial position  for Mr J.
Secondly, the sheer number of these high-cost loans is likely to have  had implications for   
Mr Js ability  to access mainstream  credit.  The greater the presence  of these loans on Mr Js 
credit file the less likely Mr J was able to rehabilitate  his finances and regain access to 
mainstream credit. This is especially the case  when  bearing in mind  his other affordability 
issues.
In my view, L2G giving Mr J such a large  number of loans  (which it shouldnt have done) 
over such  an extended  period  of time at a rate normally reserved  for short- term borrowing, 
placed him in a position where he was unfairly trapped  into taking further  loans from L2G as 
no-one else, other than similar providers, would lend to him. I think  that, in these 
circumstances, Mr J had little choice  other  than to keep turning  to L2G and other  similar 
providers for further loans, because it was the only one prepared to continue  lending to him 
bearing in mind everything that had gone on previously. And, in my view, L2G took 
advantage of the situation.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  I think that Mr J lost out because  L2G unfairly  
gave him these loans,  which it ought  to have realised were unsustainable, harmful and 
unaffordable for him. 
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
twelve of this decision, I find that:
Ref: DRN334315717L2G didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr J to satisfy  itself that 
he was able to repay  his logbook loans in a sustainable  way;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown L2G 
that Mr J would not have been  able to repay these loans in a sustainable  way; 
in any event,  the overall  pattern of lending ought  fairly and reasonably  to have 
realised alerted L2G to the fact that the loans from loans  three onwards were  
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr J and that they were  unfairly  and 
excessively increasing  his overall  indebtedness;
 
L2G didnt act unfairly  or unreasonably  towards Mr J in some other way;
Mr J lost out as a result of having been unfairly and unreasonably provided with these 
loans.  
These findings lead me to conclude that L2G unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr J with 
all of these loans and that he lost out as a result. So L2G needs to put things right for Mr J.
fair compensation  what  L2G needs to do to put things  right for Mr J
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean L2G putting Mr J in the 
position hed now be in if he hadnt  been  given these loans.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr J 
was given the loans in question and he used the funds   albeit in reality  what  hes effectively  
done is repaid  previous loans with them.  So, in these circumstances, I cant undo  whats  
already been done. And its simply not possible to put Mr J back in the position  he would be 
in if he hadnt  been given  these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for L2G to put things right in the 
following way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr J shouldnt have been given
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, L2G continually lending  to Mr J left him in a 
position where he wasnt able to properly  settle his debt. This was because Mr J kept having  
to find additional  funds to pay the (increasing) interest and charges on his L2G loans. And 
then he had to borrow again from L2G as making  the payments was preventing him from 
meeting his other commitments,  which meant  he incurred more  interest  and charges when 
he did this. So to start with, I think that L2G should refund the interest and charges  Mr J paid 
on these loans.
Im also mindful that Mr J lost the use of the funds he used to pay the interest and charges, 
I now think that L2G needs to refund to him. As Mr J lost the use of these funds, I think that 
he should be compensated  for this. We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest 
Ref: DRN334315718where a consumer hasnt  had the use of funds  because  its actions resulted in something 
having gone wrong. 
Bearing in mind my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart from our 
usual approach here and I think that awarding  8% per year simple interest, on the interest 
and charges that were paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So L2G should pay Mr J 8% per year simple interest  on the interest and charges he paid 
from the date those charges were paid to the date it settles Mr Js complaint.
Mr Js credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Mr Js complaint about  loans  three  to five because (as well as them  being  
individually unaffordable)  I think that what had happened  by this stage ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have  led L2G to realise that it was increasing Mr Js indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or harmful in some other way. I explained that there were two main 
adverse consequences of L2G having given  Mr J so many loans. Firstly  it caused  him to pay 
an excessive amount of interest. And Ive already explained how Mr J should be 
compensated for this.
I also explained that the sheer number of loans and refinances involved and the extended 
period of time is likely  to have had implications for Mr Js ability  to access  mainstream credit.  
The greater the presence of these  loans on Mr Js credit file the less likely  Mr J was able to 
rehabilitate his finances and regain access to mainstream credit.  And I think  my direction in 
relation to Mr Js credit  file needs to reflect this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mr Js credit history  
and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make  an informed decision on whether lend to 
him, I think that the mere presence of this many loans on Mr Js credit file, in itself, 
constitutes adverse  information. And I think that this many high-cost loans appearing on     
Mr Js credit file is likely to continue unfairly adversely affecting Mr J going forwards. 
In these circumstances, I think that its fair and reasonable for L2G to remove all reference  to 
loans three  to five from Mr Js credit file, as the number  of loans in itself is adverse 
information. 
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mr Js 
complaint for L2G to put things right in the following way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges Mr J paid on these loans. 
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid by Mr J to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Js credit file as a result  of loans one 
and two;
Ref: DRN334315719remove all reference to loans  three  to five from Mr Js credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give     
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Js complaint  about  Loans 2 Go Limited  and 
telling it to pay Mr J compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3343157