K822xcomplaint
Mr W complained  that he was mis-sold a mortgage  payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr W took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2004,  but took out the PPI later on in 2010. Lloyds 
said the PPI was sold during a meeting, and that it advised Mr W to take the policy.  Mr W 
said he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI, and that he didnt need it.
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr W at a monthly cost 
of £18.92. The monthly benefit was £266.56.  If Mr W had made  a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed, and asked that it be referred  to 
an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds sent in copies of Mr Ws mortgage application form and offer from 2004, and the PPI 
application form from 2010, along  with screenshots of its records of Mr Ws mortgage. As the 
sale took place  in a meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI. But Mr W had 
been able to take his mortgage without PPI (the mortgage application form shows he 
declined PPI in 2004). So I think he would  reasonably have known he didnt  have to have it. 
He didnt borrow any more money  in 2010, and he had to fill out a separate application form 
for the PPI at that point.  So overall  I think he had a choice about taking the PPI and decided 
to do so. 
Lloyds said it recommended the PPI for Mr W, so it shouldve made sure that the policy  was 
suitable for Mr T. On balance, I think it was.
As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things  not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr W wouldve been affected by any of these. 
Its not clear how the cost was explained to Mr W, although I can see that the premium is 
noted on the application form so I think its likely  that it was mentioned. And Ive no evidence 
to suggest that cost was an issue. 
There is inconsistent information about  Mr Ws employee benefits and savings. Mr W told us 
he wouldve been  entitled to sick pay from his employer of between six and twelve  months 
pay, although I dont know how much of this would have been  at his full pay rate. And he 
said he had savings equivalent to between six and twelve months  pay. However, Lloyds 
said that it had spoken to Mr W and that he told Lloyds  he had a lower  sick pay entitlement  
and about £1,000 in savings. I've thought carefully about this  but even if I take Mr Ws 
circumstances to be as he described to us, I think it would still have been reasonable for 
Lloyds to recommend  the PPI. 
Ref: DRN34839582I say this because  I think  Mr W couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage  payments 
once his sick pay ended or if he lost his job. And Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim,  and on top of his employee 
benefits, allowing  him to use his savings  for his other essential living expenses.  And I think 
Mr W could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment  that was secured 
on his home.  
On balance, although I cant know whether Lloyds clearly explained all of the policy  details, I 
think Mr W would still have bought the policy. It couldve  provided  useful protection  if Mr W 
couldnt work. This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Which  means  Lloyds doesnt  
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But Lloyds will pay back  some  of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3483958