K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Canada  Square  Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold  him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card in 2000.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
The policy  was taken  out during an application  for the credit  card via the internet.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On Mr Ls behalf, his representative disagreed with these findings. It has suggested that at 
the time of the sale, Mr L had £30,000 in savings and that consequently he did not need PPI.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Mr L has stated that he did not realise  that PPI was optional. The policy application  was 
made on-line, and Ive been  able to look at the screens Mr L would have completed as part 
of this process. These included a section on PPI. That section offered a box to tick if Mr L 
wanted PPI, and an equally prominent  one to tick if he didnt. Based on this evidence, my 
view is that Mr L was given a choice about  taking out PPI, and that he chose to take it. I can 
understand however why Mr L may not be able to recall the on-line application in detail, 
bearing in mind the number of years that have passed since  these events  occurred.
Egg did not advise  Mr L to take out the policy. However, it was still required to give clear, fair 
and not misleading information about  the PPI so that Mr L could  make  a properly informed 
choice about taking it out.
From what  Ive seen in the screenshots, I dont think Egg gave Mr L all the information that 
he needed in a sufficiently clear way. But I dont think this made any difference.  This is 
because my view is that its more likely than not that Mr L would still have taken out PPI with 
clearer information given  to him. I say this for the following reasons.
Mr L has confirmed the employee benefits  he was entitled to at the time of the sale if he had 
been off work sick or been  made redundant. He has also said that he had £30,000 in 
savings. When Mr L initially made his complaint to Canada Square, he indicated that he did 
not have any savings. I appreciate that when  making these earlier  submissions, Mr L does 
not appear to have  known the date of the sale. However, due to this discrepancy about his 
savings, I have asked  the representative to provide Mr Ls recollections about how he came 
to have this level of savings at this time,  and any documentary evidence  detailing them that 
he might  have.
Ref: DRN36018902The representative has not responded to this request.  In the circumstances, and taking into 
account the apparent discrepancy in Mr Ls submissions regarding his savings, my current  
view is that PPI did provide Mr L with a useful benefit. I say that bearing in mind  that the 
policy would have paid a benefit to Mr L to help cover the credit card repayments if hed lost 
his job or been  unable  to work  due to accident or sickness which  would have been in 
addition to his employee benefits  or any other means he made have had to assist him 
financially.
Mr L was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the main  things  
not covered under the policy. There might have been other areas in which  Egg failed to give 
Mr L as much information as it should  have done.  However, bearing  in mind that the policy  
seems to have provided a useful benefit  to him, my current view is that better information 
would not have put Mr L off taking out the PPI, and that the policy  was not mis-sold. This 
means Canada  Square  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because Canada Square didnt tell 
Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr L and his representative, nor Canada Square, have responded to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of substantive responses  to my provisional decision, I do not consider that I 
have reason to depart  from the findings  I made in that decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada  Square Operations 
Limited does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Ref: DRN36018903John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3601890