K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Alphabet (GB) 
Ltd (Alphabet)  was not of satisfactory quality and was mis-sold to him.
background
Mr Hs wife has represented  her husband  throughout this complaint. For ease, and also 
because Mr H is Alphabets customer,  Ill refer to Mr H throughout this decision.
Mr H took receipt of a new car in September 2016.  He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with Alphabet. 
In May 2018, when  hed completed 10,777 miles, the diesel particulate  filter (DPF)  blocked  
and needed replacing under warranty. The same happened again in July 2018 but the 
manufacturers refused  to authorise a further replacement under warranty  as they said the 
way the car was being driven  prevented  the DPF from regenerating properly.
Mr H therefore complained to Alphabet. He said the car was not of satisfactory  quality and 
he wanted to reject it and terminate his finance agreement. But Alphabet didnt agree. They  
explained that they were only responsible for the quality  of the car at the point it was 
supplied to Mr H and that here; the car had been in his possession for 20 months  and had 
completed significant mileage before the failures occurred. So they didnt think  there was 
evidence the faults were  present, or developing at the point  of supply.
Mr H disagreed with Alphabet and he therefore referred his complaint to this service. He 
added that he thought  the car had been  mis-sold to him as it was always  intended that hed 
just be doing short journeys and this clearly didnt give the DPF a chance to regenerate.  Our 
adjudicator therefore  provided his opinion. He didnt  think there  was sufficient evidence the 
fault was present, or developing, at the point of supply as he noted Mr H had been  able to 
drive the car, trouble  free, for 20 months  and more than 10,000 miles.
He went on to consider  whether the car had been misrepresented to Mr H but he didnt think 
that was the case  either. He noted  that the agreement  was set up with a mileage  limit of 
10,000 miles a year but in November 2018  Mr H had covered only 12,629  miles.  He thought 
it was therefore  clear that Mr H had requested  a higher mileage allowance than was needed 
and he thought this may be a contributing factor to the DPFs inability to regenerate 
sufficiently. He noted that Mr H had had several  months to consider  his order of the new car 
and change his mind and he thought this was sufficient time for him to grasp  that his usage  
may be hindered  by DPF regeneration. He noted  that when the order  was signed the 
information on the dealerships website about  these  cars explained that:
diesel vehicles  with DPFs regularly need to go through a process of regeneration to clear  
soot and allow the vehicle  to operate properlyif you plan to use it mainly for town-based, 
stop/start driving  then you should  consider that a petrolor alternatively  fuelled vehicle may 
be more suitable  for your needs
He expected the business to help the customer to make an informed decision but he didnt 
think it would  be reasonable to expect  them to inform the consumer of every  potential issue. 
He thought here there was evidence  they had made all the required information  available  
and he wasnt persuaded this car or the finance  agreement, had been mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN36497102Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car mis-sold to Mr H?
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that finance providers are liable  for what  
they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier (where  theres  a borrower-
lender-supplier agreement) before the consumer  takes out the credit agreement. So there 
has been some consideration by the adjudicator  about what  Mr H was told by the dealership 
here. 
But section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) doesnt apply to hire agreements  so it 
would not be fair for me to suggest  Alphabet were  liable for what  was said by the dealership.
If Alphabet had discussions with Mr H, before he agreed the finance, and that helped to 
guide his choice of vehicle, then I could consider those  conversations. But here Ive not seen 
evidence that Mr H did have discussions with Alphabet before he signed up for the deal so I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest  the agreement was mis-sold.
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Alphabet, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr H. The car here 
was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults.
But Alphabets responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Ref: DRN36497103I dont think its likely  Mr H would have been able to drive over 10,000 miles and have 20 
months of trouble  free driving if the car had, or was developing, a fault when it was supplied.  
But the relevant  legislation says that I should also take into account whether a car has 
proven to be suitably  durable when I consider whether its been of satisfactory  quality.
The manufacturer has suggested  the DPF has failed because  its not been able to 
regenerate on the short journeys Mr H has been undertaking. The suggestion  is that the car 
is working satisfactorily but the tendency of Mr H to only complete short journeys isnt 
helping.
DPF regeneration  is an issue that was highlighted  on the dealerships web pages when they 
explained that:
 diesel vehicles with DPFs regularly need to go through a process of regeneration to clear  
soot and allow the vehicle  to operate properlyif you plan to use it mainly for town-based, 
stop/start driving  then you should  consider that a petrolor alternatively  fuelled vehicle may 
be more suitable  for your needs
The manufacturer considered the data from Mr Hs car when they were looking at how the 
filter had become irreparably clogged for the second  time. That session file information  
suggested the car had very low average speed  and very short average drive  time. That,  in 
itself, does not demonstrate the car wasnt, on occasion, driven sufficiently  far and at 
sufficient speed  to trigger a satisfactory DPF regeneration. 
However, the session  file also identified that the engine  had typically  been under very light 
load; had spent  a lot of time in idle and that two regenerations had been aborted.  I think,  on 
balance, the weight of this evidence  does support Alphabets assertion that the way in which 
the car was being driven was unlikely to create the required conditions  to allow 
regenerations to complete satisfactorily.  It was therefore most likely, Mr Hs driving style was 
causing the problem.
I dont think theres evidence that this car wasnt sufficiently durable. It seems  that the 
duration of the trips simply made it impossible for the DPF to regenerate and that was 
anticipated by the manufacturer and also by the dealership  who explained that characteristic  
in their literature so that consumers could make informed decisions on the vehicles they 
chose to finance.
Overall, I am not persuaded theres been sufficient evidence that this car was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and Im therefore not supporting  Mr Hs complaint.
Legislation also requires  goods to be fit for their particular purpose. In this instance that 
would mean  that as the supplier of the car Alphabet should ensure  the car was suitable for 
Mr Hs needs. The car does meet the general needs  of most car users. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Mr H made Alphabet aware  of specific needs  or requirements of the 
car. I also havent seen  anything that would suggest that Alphabet  knew  or had reason to 
suspect that Mr H would be using the car in a way that would likely cause the DPF to not 
work in the way it needed to to ensure  it regenerated correctly.  
The mileage  limit on the agreement was 10,000 miles each year,  which is above the average 
annual mileage. Alphabet had no reason to suspect that Mr H might  be using the car for 
short journeys that may cause problems with the DPF. 
Ref: DRN36497104I understand that after Mr H submitted his complaint to this service he experienced a further 
failure of the DPF that the recovery service  explained was the result of a turbo failure.  I can 
see the car was repaired in April last year. That complaint wasnt considered by Alphabet  
and, as I can see the adjudicator explained  to Mr H at the time,  I dont think it would be fair 
for me to consider  that aspect of his complaint before Alphabet were allowed that 
opportunity.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3649710