K820x#14complaint
C is a limited company.  It complains, through its director, Mr V, that Lloyds Bank plc wrongly 
debited its account  with nearly £20,000  in cash machine withdrawals and card payments 
over a period  of several  weeks.  Mr V says that neither  he, nor anyone  else acting on behalf 
of C, was responsible  for the disputed  transactions.   
background
Cs business current account had a debit  card linked to it, which  Mr V held. During the period  
of the disputed transactions  in September and October 2017  he used it to make 
occasional payments. 
The transactions that Mr V is disputing on Cs account began on 21 September  2017 and 
continued until 18 October 2017. He found  out on or about 24 September 2017 that his 
personal account (which  is the subject of a separate complaint) had been  used  he says 
without his authority.
Mr V found  out about the transactions on Cs account nearly a month later,  on or about 18 
October 2017, when  a payment he was trying to make was declined for lack of funds. 
Lloyds has explained  that it received a telephone call on 6 September 2017 from someone  it 
believed to be Mr V. That person  requested  a new card for Cs account. They were able to 
answer security questions, including questions about recent  activity  on the account. As a 
result, a new card was sent to the address registered on the banks  file  Mr Vs address. 
On 14 September  2017 the bank  received  a further  call, this time requesting a PIN reminder. 
Again, the caller  was able to answer  security questions,  including  questions about  recent  
account activity. A PIN reminder  was sent to Mr Vs address. There  was a further call the 
following day, in which the caller asked  about re-ordering telephone banking  information, 
which again was sent to Mr Vs address. In the event, none of the disputed  transactions  was 
made using  telephone banking.
The result of this was that there  were two debit cards in use during the period of the disputed  
transactions. Mr V had one already, and there was a new one. All the disputed transactions 
were made using the second, new, card. 
Lloyds considered what had happened but concluded that Mr V had ordered the new card 
and the PIN reminder. It declined a refund. Mr V said it must have been someone else 
impersonating him. He showed that he had been out of the UK between 13 and 19 
September 2017. 
Ref: DRN36116352Mr V referred Cs complaint to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. She 
concluded that Mr V had either made the transactions himself or had authorised someone 
else to order the new card and PIN reminder and carry them  out. Given  the level of 
information needed to order the card and PIN and then to collect  them,  she thought  it must  
have involved Mr V giving consent to what happened.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
Cs complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, I find myself 
broadly in agreement with the investigator. 
Mr Vs argument here is relatively straightforward. He says that someone  else was able to 
impersonate him sufficiently well to persuade the bank to provide a new debit  card and PIN 
reminder and to send  it to his address. They were then able to obtain both and use them 
without his knowledge. I need  to consider,  therefore, how likely that was. 
Having listened  to recordings of the calls to the bank, the investigator wasnt  persuaded that 
they were made by Mr V, although  that was how he was addressed. She did note however 
that the caller  had sufficient information to pass the banks automated security system and to 
speak to an adviser. The adviser  then asked about a recent transaction on the account. That 
information wouldnt have  appeared on a printed statement at that point; there was no 
access to online banking  at that time either.  The calls ordering the card and the PIN followed 
a similar  pattern. 
Mr V has said that only he had access to Cs bank accounts  online. Hes explained too that 
he used an online company accounting programme,  but again  that only he had access  to it. 
Mr V was out of the country  when the second  and third calls (ordering the PIN and telephone 
banking details respectively) were made.  That doesnt rule out the possibility that Mr V made 
them, but it makes it less likely. In the circumstances, Im inclined to agree with the 
investigator that someone else ordered the card and PIN. 
However, given the amount of information needed, I think  that whoever ordered the card and 
PIN must have been given quite wide-ranging access  to Cs account  by Mr V. Certainly,  
they knew about account activity, and I think it likely they could do this because  Mr V 
provided sufficient information  to enable them to do so. 
That doesnt  mean, however, that Mr V also allowed that person  to order a new card and 
PIN. He could have  provided information for some other reason  although he says that 
wasnt the case. 
Both the card and PIN notification were however sent to Mr Vs address, on different dates. I 
think its very unlikely that both were intercepted before they arrived, especially  as there was 
more than a week  between the card and the PIN being ordered. Its more likely than not that 
both were delivered safely. Its likely  too that the information about telephone banking  was 
delivered there too and that whoever ordered  it was confident theyd be able to retrieve  it.    
Ref: DRN36116353The card and PIN werent used until 21 September 2017, after Mr V had returned from his 
trip abroad.  That indicates to me that whoever  used  them wasnt able to retrieve them  until 
Mr V was back. Again, that suggests active involvement on his part. 
On balance, therefore, I think it more likely than not that Mr V either made the transactions  
himself or allowed someone else to do so. Given that he had, and continued to use, the first 
card, I think he probably allowed someone else to use the second. The alternative 
explanation  that a third party was able, three times, to impersonate him and then to obtain 
both the card and PIN notification from his house  seems to me to be very unlikely. 
I note as well that Mr V identified suspicious activity on his personal account at around  the 
same time the disputed  transactions started on Cs account. In the circumstances, I might 
have expected him to check that Cs account  hadnt been compromised. I note too that he 
appears to have logged into Cs account  rather less than had previously been the case. 
Mr V has explained that he was in dispute  with a business partner (involved in another 
business he runs).  Ive considered carefully whether that might explain the disputed 
transactions. Mr V is however adamant that only he had access  to Cs accounts  and other 
company information.  And, even if his business  partner had managed to access  information 
to enable him to order the card and PIN notification, I cannot see how he could have 
collected both from Mr Vs home without his knowledge or consent. 
If, as Mr V appears  to suggest, the disputed transactions were linked to his business partner, 
it may be more appropriate for him to pursue recovery against that individual. But, in all the 
circumstances, I dont  believe it would  be fair to require the bank to reimburse  C. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything more  to resolve Cs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C 
(through Mr V) to accept  or reject  my decision before 14 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3611635