K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W complains that Pi Financial Ltd advised her to switch an existing pension  to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unregulated  scheme, which has lost its 
value.
Background
In March 2009 Mrs W met with an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd, to discuss 
her pension plans  and take advice  on a proposed investment. Mrs W was advised  to transfer 
her existing personal pensions with a provider, Z, to a SIPP for the purpose  of arranging  an 
investment, through a company Ill refer to as E.
From April 2009 £21,075.63 was transferred to the newly arranged SIPP, of which £18,000
was invested in E on 21 May 2009.
On 25 September  2018, Mrs Ws representative  sent a complaint to Pi Financial on her 
behalf. They  said Mrs W had been  advised to transfer her existing pensions  to a SIPP for the 
purpose of investing  in E, which had led to losses following Es liquidation.
Pi Financial didnt agree with the complaint. It thought the advice  to transfer the pension  and 
open a SIPP  was suitable for Mrs W. But regardless, it thought Mrs W had made  her 
complaint too late under  the Financial Conduct  Authoritys rules.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ws complaint had been  made  in time. She thought the first 
time Mrs W wouldve known there was a problem  with her investment  and the advice was 
when she received her valuation statement  in August 2016, showing the value of her 
investment with E had been reduced to £1.00.  As she complained to Pi Financial within three 
years of this, the investigator thought our service could consider it.
Pi Financial disagreed.  The complaint  was referred  to me and I decided that the complaint 
had been made in time for the same  reasons given by the investigator.
The case  was returned to the investigator to reach a view on the merits. The investigator  
upheld the complaint as she wasnt satisfied that Pi Financial had established a reason for 
Mrs W switching  her existing scheme benefits  to a SIPP, which  would cost her substantially 
more. She also didnt think Pi Financial had undertaken a sufficient assessment of Mrs Ws 
attitude to risk. On balance, based  on Mrs Ws assets, her limited  capacity for loss and her 
lack of investment  experience, the investigator  thought she most likely had a low/cautious  
attitude to risk. And for this reason, she didnt think the investment in E was suitable  for her. 
She didnt  think Mrs W shouldve  been advised  to invest any of her funds in E, which  was a 
high-risk, illiquid investment. Instead,  she thought Mrs W shouldve been  advised to switch  
funds within  her existing  pension plans.
The investigator recommended  Mrs W should be compensated by comparing her position 
now to that of a benchmark, based on her low/cautious attitude to risk. She added  that Pi 
Financial should  cover five years  SIPP fees,  as it only existed to facilitate  the unsuitable 
investment in E, and pay £300  for the trouble  and upset caused.
Mrs W accepted the investigators findings. Pi Financial didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. It said the analysis completed by the adviser suggested Mrs W had 
a balanced attitude to risk  it said she was an intelligent woman capable of understanding  
Ref: DRN30863042the investment  in E. Pi Financial also said the investment landscape at the time of the advice 
had to be taken  into account. After the financial crisis of 2007, it said all asset  classes 
tumbled and for this reason investors  were  seeking alternative investment opportunities.
As no agreement was reached, the matter was referred to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
As Pi Financial gave advice to Mrs W in respect  of her pension,  it was required to comply 
with the regulators  requirements under the Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And 
under COBS, Pi Financial had a duty to act in Mrs Ws best interests,  to know its client  and 
give suitable advice.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Pi Financial met with Mrs W in February 2009 to discuss  
her existing pensions.  The adviser recorded Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives in a 
Personal Financial Planning Questionnaire dated 23 February 2009. Ill refer to this as the 
fact-find. The fact-find shows Mrs W was single with two dependent children, that she had a 
mortgage and a secured loan and no savings. The fact-find recorded her retirement  
provisions as follows:
an occupational  pension scheme (OPS) through a former employer, which  Pi 
Financial estimated would provide an annual pension of around £2,100  at her 
preferred retirement age of 60;
a personal pension plan and an additional voluntary contribution plan with Z which  
had a transfer value of around  £21,000; and
she was also a member of her current employers group personal  pension scheme. 
It isnt clear what the value of Mrs Ws current employers pension scheme was at the time of 
the advice. But overall, I think  its fair to say Mrs Ws pension provisions were modest.
The fact-find includes a notes section where the adviser summarised  the discussion with 
Mrs W. It is here that the adviser explains Mrs Ws attitude to risk:
We have also discussed [Mrs Ws] attitude to risk, and although we did not complete  a risk 
profiler, [Mrs W] told me that she was a 5/10. [Mrs W] told me that she has always 
considered her [attitude to risk] to be this from the start of her pension  planning.
It is clear from the advisers notes  that he did not carry out an assessment of Mrs Ws 
attitude to risk, instead relying on Mrs Ws own assertion that she was a 5/10. I dont think  
the adviser was acting  in Mrs Ws best interest by failing to carry out his own assessment of 
Mrs Ws attitude to risk. I also dont think he couldve provided suitable  advice without  being  
satisfied he understood Mrs Ws true risk appetite as well as her capacity for loss. In the 
absence of such an assessment taking place,  it is necessary for me to reach my own 
conclusion based  on the evidence available from the time.
Having considered the information provided, I agree  with the investigator that Mrs W most 
likely had a low/cautious attitude to risk at the time of the advice. Mrs W appears to have had 
no savings at the time and significant debts.  There isnt any record of Mrs W having  any 
Ref: DRN30863043previous investment experience, and certainly  no experience  in unregulated investments. It 
isnt clear what the total value of Mrs Ws existing pension  provisions  was, but it wasnt a 
significant sum. So, I think Mrs W had a very limited capacity for loss, and as such, she 
couldnt afford to take more than a small risk with the funds  she held with Z.
The investment in E was high-risk. It was an unregulated, overseas property investment that 
was subject to currency  fluctuations and was essentially illiquid. Even  if Mrs W could have  
been said to be a balanced-risk investor, the investment in E wouldve still been unsuitable 
for her. I note Pi Financials comments that Mrs W was an intelligent woman who wouldve 
understood the investment. I dont  doubt Mrs W wouldve understood that she was being 
advised to invest  in timber, and that this may have appealed to her as a green  investment. 
But I dont think she wouldve understood the risks attached to such an investment, or that it 
wasnt suitable for her, without Pi Financial explaining this to her clearly.
I have taken Pi Financials  comments about  the investment  landscape at the time of the 
advice, and why investors  were  generally  seeking  out alternative  investments. But I dont 
think its fair to say that because returns on more conventional investments were  lower at the 
time of the advice,  Mrs W shouldve been encouraged to invest in high-risk  alternative 
investments that ultimately werent suitable  for her.
Overall, I dont  think Pi Financial shouldve  advised  Mrs W to invest  any of her funds in E as 
it wasnt suitable for her. And if Mrs W had been  given this advice, Im satisfied  she wouldve 
followed it.
Although Im satisfied  Mrs W wouldnt have invested  in E if suitable  advice  had been  given,  
I also have to consider  whether it was reasonable in any event for Pi Financial to 
recommend she switch the benefits she held with Z to a SIPP.
Ive reviewed the fact-find and the recommendation letter sent to Mrs W on 10 March  2009 
to determine Mrs Ws objectives, but there is very little to go on. The notes in the fact-find 
appear to suggest  Mrs W was unhappy with the performance of the plans with Z. The 
recommendation letter seems to suggest  the recommendation that Mrs W switch  her 
benefits to a SIPP was based on giving Mrs W access to alternative investments, i.e. 
investing with E. But there is no evidence to show that Mrs W had actively  selected  or 
managed pension investments previously. So, there  doesnt really appear to have been  any 
need for Mrs W to take out a SIPP, other than to invest in E, which wasnt  suitable  for her.
Furthermore, the SIPP wouldve cost Mrs W more than her existing arrangements.  The plans 
with Z collectively had annual charges of less than 1%, although  they contained a charge of 
£55 for fund switches and had a bid-offer spread of 5% on all payments. The SIPP  cost £345  
plus VAT to establish, plus an annual charge of £490 plus VAT. So, based on the size of the 
fund to be switched  to the SIPP,  the annual management charge was akin to around 3% per 
year. So, the SIPP  charges were substantially  more. And I agree with the investigator  that 
the way the charges were  described  meant it was difficult to Mrs W to understand how they 
compared.
Pi Financial noted that Mrs Ws plans  with Z didnt offer many options for switching  funds. 
But if an internal  fund switch wasnt suitable for Mrs W, I think Pi Financial shouldve  
explored other options, such  as a stakeholder pension. It doesnt  appear this was considered  
by the adviser,  but this would have  provided Mrs W with a low-cost pension  arrangement  
with access to a greater range of funds to meet her objectives.
Ref: DRN30863044Overall, I dont  think it was reasonable for Pi Financial to recommend Mrs W switch her 
pension benefits  to a SIPP. There is no evidence to show Mrs W required  the flexibility  or 
access to alternative investments that the SIPP provided. It seems  to me that Mrs W was 
looking for better performance. And I think this couldve been achieved  by switching the 
funds she was invested in, or by taking out another personal pension  arrangement  with a 
similar level of charges  but with access to a greater range of funds. Ive set out below what  
I think Pi Financial needs to do to put this right.
In addition, the SIPP only exists because of the investment in E. And as the investment in E 
has failed, it is illiquid  and remains in the SIPP. If Pi Financial cant  purchase the investment 
in E to allow the SIPP to be closed, I think it would be reasonable for Pi Financial to cover 
the SIPP fees for five years.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs W should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs W would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
What should Pi Financial do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Pi Financial  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Pi Financial should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Pi Financial should  pay into Mrs Ws pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Pi Financial is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs Ws pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ws actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age  20%. However, if Mrs W would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs W £300 for the trouble and upset  caused by the unsuitable  advice.
Ref: DRN30863045Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs W how much has been taken off. Pi Financial  should  give Mrs W a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE  
UK Private  
Investors  Income 
Total Return Index;  
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed  rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision 
to date of settlement 
(if compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the business 
being  notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi Financial should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi Financial is unable to purchase the investment, the actual  value should  be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Pi Financial  may require that Mrs W provides an 
undertaking to pay Pi Financial any amount she may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Pi Financial will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Pi Financial 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi Financial totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ref: DRN30863046Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Ws risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mrs W into that position.  It does  not mean that 
Mrs W would  have invested  50% of her money  in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in some  
kind of index tracker  investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs W could have  obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
Five years SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the investment in E. In order for the SIPP  to be closed and 
further SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs  to be removed. But if Pi Financial cant 
buy it Mrs W is faced  with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume five years of future  
SIPP fees. So, if Pi Financial cant buy the investment it should pay an amount equal to five 
years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation 
calculated using a nil value for the investment.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs W in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3086304