K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Northern Bank  Limited wrongly insisted on them taking out a 
10 year £60,000 level term assurance  policy as a condition of a loan (covering the same  
amount and term).
 
background
Northern Bank said it did insist on appropriate  life cover as a condition of any business loan, 
which this was, at the time. It said it would have been happy for Mr and Mrs C to take out 
decreasing term cover  but they chose level term cover.
An adjudicator at this service  agreed  with this assessment.
Mr and Mrs C did not agree, saying they felt this was a form of PPI, which had been widely  
mis-sold. They never wanted  to take out the policy  and, if anything had happened to Mr C, 
they would  have sold the land (the asset being bought by the loan). Also,  Northern Bank 
insisted on holding the deeds to the land as part of its security so why did it need PPI in 
place as well?
Northern Bank said that it required both appropriate  cover and an assignment  of the deeds 
as a condition  of the loan;  this was made clear at the time and it was entitled  to do this.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northern Bank said it set conditions on any loan, business or personal, and it explained that 
it required both an assignment  of the deeds and appropriate insurance cover at the time of 
the loan in 2006. In my view, it was fully entitled to do this, and I dont believe these 
conditions were manifestly unreasonable. 
Term assurance is a form of insurance which will pay out a specific amount  in the event of 
death or critical illness, and is commonly recommended and bought  to protect mortgage 
borrowings and other large loans.  For a relatively  modest sum it guarantees that the debt is 
effectively wiped out in the event of the person assured becoming critical ill or dying. It is a 
reasonable condition of a loan (although not all lenders impose  or have imposed such  a 
condition) as it guarantees that the bank will quickly and easily get their money  back in these 
situations.
Term assurance is a very different product to PP! which was widely sold in completely 
inappropriate situations and to people who would never have been eligible to claim on the 
policy (such  as the self-employed).
So while I understand Mr and Mrs Cs concerns,  I do not believe  this recommendation was 
unreasonable or unsuitable. In any case it was a condition of the loan.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN30849812Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3084981