K821x#15Complaint
Mr E complains that the car he acquired thorough a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo  Finance) (MotoNovo) wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality.
Background
Mr E entered into a HPA with MotoNovo in August 2017 to acquire a used car. In June 2018 
the car underwent an MOT and it was found that there was serious structural  corrosion close  
to the offside rear suspension and offside front seat belt mounting points. 
Mr E says he raised a complaint with Motonovo about the quality of the car and was asked 
to have an inspection  carried  out which he paid for. This confirmed the corrosion and said 
that the repair that had been carried out had compromised the structure  of the vehicle and 
that the damage had been present for more than 12 months. He says MotoNovo arranged  
for a further inspection  which  also confirmed the issue.
Mr E says he was asked to have  the car delivered  to the dealership to be examined. He says 
he was clear he didnt  want any repairs carried out until he understood the extent of the 
damage. He was then called two weeks later and told the car had been  repaired and was 
ready for collection.  He says he hasnt been  provided a copy of the repair  report. He says he 
doesnt accept  or trust the repairs  and hasnt collected the car.
MotoNovo says that Mr E contacted it in July 2018  to say the car had failed the MOT  due to 
corrosion caused  by structural damage. It says inspection reports were arranged  and this 
confirmed the corrosion would have been  present at the point of supply. It says the 
dealership agreed  to repair  the car and Mr E was contacted on 16 October to say the car 
had been repaired  and was ready for collection.  It says Mr E said he would take the car for 
an MOT to check it had been repaired to an acceptable standard. MotoNovo says it told 
Mr E to let it know if the issue  with the corrosion hadnt been adequately repaired. 
Our adjudicator said it was reasonable that MotoNovo  asked for independent  inspections  to 
take place due to the timing of when  the issues raised. These reports found  the issue  was 
present at the point of supply and he thought  it right that MotoNovo was given the 
opportunity to repair the car. He said although Mr E wasnt informed that he repairs were 
going to take place  he didnt think that MotoNovo required Mr Es consent for this to happen. 
He understood  Mr Es concerns  about  the repair  and his wish to reject the car but said that 
the repairs hadnt been found to be unsatisfactory.
Our adjudicator said that the £67 Mr E paid for the car to be taken to the dealership had 
been refunded.  However he said Mr E also paid for one of the inspection reports  and he 
should be refunded this cost. He said Mr E had had reasonable  use of the car in the first 
year but he was unable to use the car between 19 June 2018 (when the car failed the MOT))  
until 16 October 2018 when he was told he could  collect the car. He thought it fair Mr E was 
refunded the monthly instalments for this period.
Mr E responded to our adjudicators view. He said that given the condition of the car when 
acquired and the repair  needed, even if this was perfect  , the value and status of the car 
would had changed. He said that had he known the condition  of the car he wouldnt have 
acquired it and said that the MOT database  and service book didnt  show this issue.  He said 
Ref: DRN33262382he was paying  for a car that was worth much  less than had been understood at the point of 
acquisition. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E acquired a used  car through a HPA with MotoNovo. Under the regulations,  specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), MotoNovo can be held liable if the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  
as the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. In this case,  at acquisition the car was over eight years old 
and had been driven over 96,000 miles.
Mr E was able to have  use of the car until the MOT in June 2018.  At this point he became  
aware of a number  of issues, including excessive corrosion which was reducing  the 
structural strength of the car. Given the issues he raised a complaint with MotoNovo.
As Mr E had had the car for around ten months  and been able to drive it around 18,000 
miles, I do not find it unreasonable that MotoNovo requested an independent inspection be 
carried out to assess  the issues  raised. Mr E arranged for this and the issue  was confirmed. 
MotoNovo then had another  inspection  carried out. 
MotoNovos inspection report noted  the various  issues listed  in the MOT  and said many of 
these could be considered normal wear and tear. However it noted the severe corrosion 
which it thought  was due to a poor repair possibly following  previous accidental  damage. It 
thought this issue had been  present for at least two to three  years  and so would have been 
present at the point of supply. 
Given the findings of the inspection reports, it is clear that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. Under the CRA  2015, the consumer has a short  term right to 
reject within the first 30 days.  After this there is a right to repair.  In this case  repairs  were  
carried out at no cost to Mr E and I find this a reasonable remedy.  I understand that Mr E is 
upset he wasnt told the repairs  were taking place and that he hasnt received the repair  
report he has asked for. However  I find that MotoNovo did nothing  wrong  by having the 
repairs undertaken.
I understand Mr Es concerns about the repairs but without further evidence to show  the 
repairs werent of satisfactory  quality,  I do not find that I can say MotoNovo is required to do 
anything further.  I note Mr E said he would  collect  the car and take it for a MOT test, I think 
this would have  been a reasonable thing  to do and had this found ongoing issues supporting 
failed repairs then further action, including a possible rejection could have been considered. 
But without any evidence  to show the repairs werent of a satisfactory standard  I do not find 
that MotoNovo  is required to do anything else at this stage in regard to this aspect of Mr Es 
complaint.
I understand the point Mr E has made about the issue not being known at the point of supply 
and based on the evidence I have  nothing to show that a misrepresentation took place by 
the dealership.  I appreciate his comments about the value of the car but as it has been 
repaired I do not find any further action is required.
Ref: DRN33262383Mr E paid for an inspection report and given this confirmed the issue  was present from the 
point of supply  I find it reasonable  that the cost of this is refunded. I also think it fair that Mr E 
is refunded the payments he made for the period when  the car was unavailable to him, that 
is from the date the MOT until when he was contacted to say the car had been  repaired.
My final decision
My final decision is that FirstRand Bank  Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance) should:
refund  of the inspection report paid for by Mr E (subject to a receipt  being  provided);
refund  of monthly payments  from 18 June 2018 to 16 October  2018  to reflect Mr Es 
loss of usage.
Both of these refunds are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
If FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo  Finance) considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I find that FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance)  has acted reasonably  by 
having the car repaired and without further evidence  to show  the repairs arent of a 
satisfactory quality I do not require  it to do anything further in regard to this part of the 
complaint.. I do uphold this complaint in regard  to the cost of the inspection  re 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3326238