K821x#15complaint
Mr S was a victim of fraud on his account.  His complaint is about the stress and 
inconvenience he suffered during the time the money was missing from his account  and the 
service TSB Bank plc provided him with.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in March 2019 explaining why I intended to 
uphold Mr S complaint  and why TSB should pay Mr S a further  £175  in compensation. A 
copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms  part of my final decision.
I asked both Mr S and TSB to provide me with any further comments and evidence  they 
would like me to consider.  Mr S questioned the loss of earnings again  during a phone call 
with the adjudicator but neither party has provided me with anything  further to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with anything further to consider I see no reason to depart 
from the findings as set out in my provisional decision. So it follows  that I uphold Mr S 
complaint for the same reasons as those  set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint  against TSB Bank  plc and require  them  to pay Mr S £500 in total for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to him. I understand that TSB Bank plc have already 
paid Mr S £325 and so they only need  to pay him a further £175.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38283542copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr S was a victim of fraud on his account.  His complaint  is about  the stress  and inconvenience he 
suffered during the time the money was missing from his account and the service  TSB Bank plc 
provided him with.
background 
In May 2018  just under £12,000 was taken from Mr S account. TSB refunded the money  around nine 
days later  but Mr S says he was very stressed during this time.  He says when he found  out the 
money had been taken,  he tried without success to contact TSB on the phone. He ended up having  to 
go to the branch. The branch manager took a further 5 or 6 hours to get through  to the relevant  
department so that the fraud complaint could  be logged. 
Mr S then made further visits to the branch and spent hours on the phone on a daily basis to get an 
update or some more  information  about  what was going on. Because of the time spent trying to 
contact TSB and the stress he was under Mr S says he was unable  to go to work. As he works on a 
self-employed basis, Mr S says he has lost out on approximately two weeks of earnings. 
TSB paid Mr S £325 for the stress and inconvenience caused to him as well as £50 for expenses. 
They didnt offer Mr S any compensation  for loss of earnings.  Our adjudicator considered TSBs  offer 
and agreed  that it was fair in the circumstances.
Mr S is unhappy  with this outcome as he thinks  TSB should compensate him for the loss of earnings 
as well as the stress and inconvenience caused to him. So the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont  think its fair to ask TSB to compensate Mr S for loss of earnings,  but I am 
thinking of asking TSB to pay Mr S a further £175 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him, 
making his total award for distress and inconvenience  £500.  Ill explain why I have reached this 
outcome.
First, I havent  seen  any actual  evidence that Mr S lost out on earnings during the time the money was 
missing. But, even if this evidence was available  to me, I would need to consider whether its fair and 
reasonable to require TSB to compensate Mr S for this loss. I dont think  it is. I appreciate that TSB 
werent providing Mr S with updates and so he felt he had to keep trying to contact them. But TSB had 
already made clear to Mr S that the branch wouldnt be able to help him  as his complaint was with 
the fraud department. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest that TSB told Mr S to keep phoning 
them for updates, or that he was led to believe  this would help resolve the matter faster. 
Of course I understand that Mr S was very stressed at this time and needed to know what was 
happening. Ive taken this into account when considering  how much compensation Mr S should get 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. It took Mr S hours  to try and lodge  his complaint 
with the fraud department in the first place. A large sum of money had been taken  from his account  
and it took longer than it should have for the money to be returned.  His account was also blocked  
during this time and he had to borrow money from family and friends. He also had to cancel holiday 
plans with friends.  TSB didnt update their records with Mr S phone  number and so he wasnt initially 
told the money had been refunded. He only found out when he went into the branch the next day.
Ref: DRN38283543So its clear to me that Mr S should be compensated for the impact this has had on him. As I 
understand it TSB have already paid Mr S £325 for the distress and inconvenience caused  to him (as 
well as £50 for expenses). But I think a higher  award  is warranted and that £500 represents a fair 
amount. So I think TSB should pay Mr S a further £175.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to uphold  Mr S complaint. Unless I receive any further information  or evidence 
that changes my mind,  I will be requiring TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S a further £175  for the distress  and 
inconvenience  caused to him. 
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3828354