K822xcomplaint
Mr M acquired a new car in January 2017,  by hire purchase with BMW  Financial Services 
(GB) Limited (BMWFS). He complains  that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. He wants  BMWFS to accept rejection of his car.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my first 
provisional decision dated 28 November 2018  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this second decision. In my first provisional  decision, I explained that I disagreed with our 
adjudicators view that the complaint  should  be upheld.  
BMWFS agreed  with my first provisional decision.  But Mr M disagreed, although he said that 
he understood the basis on which  I had reached my decision. He provided  further  evidence  
which, he argued, showed that his cars January 2018 failure was caused  by a point of 
supply fault. This evidence included:
A current recall page on the UK Driver  & Vehicle Standards Agency (DVLA) website
A safety  recall report, dated October 2018, from a foreign jurisdiction
This evidence caused me to change my view. My revised conclusions were set out in my 
second provisional decision dated 27 March  2019  a copy of which  is also attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In my second  provisional decision, I explained why I agreed 
with our adjudicators  view that the complaint should  be upheld.
BMWFS did not respond second  provisional  decision. But Mr M did reply,  saying that he 
agreed with my revised conclusions.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusion reached  in my second provisional  decision is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited:
1.To end Mr Ms hire purchase agreement with nothing further owed by him 
2.To collect  Mr Ms car at no further cost to him 
3.To refund Mr Ms advance payment (plus interest at 8% per annum simple  from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement) 
4.To refund the first two monthly payments made by Mr M under  this agreement (plus 
interest at 8% per annum simple  from the dates of payment to the date of settlement)  
5.To remove  all information it may have  registered  on his credit  file, relating to this 
agreement
If BMWFS considers it has to deduct tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
send Mr M a tax deduction certificate  when it pays him. He can then use that certificate to try 
to reclaim the tax, if he is entitled  to do so. 
Ref: DRN38450272Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38450273COPY OF FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
28 November 2018
complaint
Mr M acquired a new car in January 2017,  by hire purchase with BMW  Financial Services 
(GB) Limited (BMWFS). He complains  that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. He wants  BMWFS to accept rejection of his car.
background
Mr M told us:
He reported  a suspected fault to the manufacturer approved supplying dealership 
shortly after he had taken delivery of his car (in January 2017)
The dealer  told him to continue driving his car until its running in service,  when the 
suspected fault would be investigated
The running in service was done by another  manufacturer approved main dealer (in 
February 2017)
In July 2017, just under six months after delivery, his car was inspected  by the 
supplying dealership under warranty  faults were reported and repairs  were 
attempted
Two weeks  later, his car required assistance from the manufacturers emergency 
service  it was recovered to the supplying dealership  
A further  week later (in August 2017), significant  repairs to his cars power delivery  
system were completed under warranty 
In January 2018, his cars  power delivery  system  suffered a catastrophic failure   it 
was recovered  to a different manufacturer approved  main dealer
He immediately complained to BMWFS,  saying  
ohis car had displayed faults since he acquired it
orepairs had been unsuccessfully attempted several times
oand so he wished  to exercise his right under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
to reject the car
The car was repaired,  and he was persuaded to collect it from the dealer  he drove  
the car home, but it has not been used since  then
BMWFS responded to Mr Ms complaint in February  2018, saying:
Mr Ms cars warranty history showed that repairs were carried  out during 
summer 2017 (under  warranty, when his car had travelled between  11,000  and 
12,000 miles)   Mr M accepted these repairs
Mr Ms car failed for a second  time in January 2018, having  travelled  roughly 
8,000 further miles  it was again repaired under warranty
It was disappointed that such repairs had been  required  to his car within  the first year 
of usage, but the warranty had served its purpose
In recognition of the inconvenience  caused  to Mr M by these repairs,  it offered to 
refund two of the monthly payments  required under  his hire purchase agreement
But, given the period  of time and mileage travelled between the repairs in summer 
2017 and the second failure, it did not believe these events were linked and there 
was no evidence to suggest otherwise
In these circumstances, it was unable to agree that Mr Ms car should be rejected
Ref: DRN38450274Mr M declined BMWFSs settlement offer, and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought it should be upheld. 
Our investigator said the nature  of repairs undertaken  in July and August 2017  showed links 
to both the suspected fault reported  by Mr M shortly  after acquisition,  and the mechanical  
failure in January 2018. For this reason, she felt it was likely that the suspected  fault and the 
2018 failure were  linked.  And, in these  circumstances, she considered  that rejection was 
appropriate.
BMWFS disagreed, and so this complaint was referred for review  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
BMWFS has a responsibility  to ensure that goods of satisfactory  quality, and corresponding 
to their description, have  been supplied. This means  that a reasonable person  would  have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances,  which for 
cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits  to BMWFSs  responsibilities. In 
particular, faults  must  be present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr M reported a suspected fault shortly after acquisition. But the matter does not seem to 
have been considered sufficiently serious  to require immediate  action.  And Mr M appears to 
have agreed that investigation of it could take place during the cars  running in service. 
The running in service  took place 16 days after acquisition, at which time his car had 
travelled just over 1,200 miles. But we have no evidence of a fault being  detected  during the 
service. In these circumstances, I am unable to find that Mr Ms car was faulty  at this time.
We do have evidence, though, which indicates that faults were detected in July 2017.  And it 
could be argued  that these faults were more  likely  than not to have been developing at the 
point of supply.  
We also have evidence  that Mr Ms car failed in January 2018, and required significant 
repairs to other parts  of its power delivery system (including the complete replacement  of 
one part). This failure and the faults  repaired in summer 2017 may or may not have been 
linked.
If those events were linked, then the repairs completed in August 2017 were unsuccessful  
and led to the failure in January 2018. This means, on the one hand, it could then be argued  
that the faults were developing at the point of supply   and, because the repairs were 
unsuccessful, rejection  of Mr Ms car would be appropriate. Our investigator holds this view.
Ref: DRN38450275But, on the other hand, there is no evidence indicating that the car continued to exhibit  these 
(or other) faults, in the period after the repairs  were completed in August 2017.  Also,  the 
parts repaired/replaced in January 2018 do not appear to be the same as those  
repaired/replaced in summer 2017.  And, given as well the period of time and mileage 
travelled between the repairs in summer  2017  and the January 2018  failure,  this means  it 
could be argued  that these events were not linked. BMWFS holds this view.
In these circumstances, and on balance, I am unable  to disagree with BMWFSs view that 
the events concerned were not linked   because the contrary evidence  and arguments are 
insufficient.
If those events were not linked, then Mr Ms brand new car failed after about  12 months, 
because of a different  fault (or faults) that might have been  present or developing at the point 
of supply. The car had travelled in total about  19,500 miles, which is more than double the 
average car mileage. 
In these circumstances, and even though brand new cars are expected  to be durable, my 
starting point would be it is unlikely that the failure was caused  by a point of supply fault (or 
faults). Mr M would need to provide evidence to suggest it was more likely  than not that 
there was such a fault (for example,  by showing that the replaced part was designed and 
specified to last much longer than it did).  
I sympathise with Mr M. But, on balance, I have  seen insufficient evidence  indicating that:
Either the summer 2017  repairs and the January 2018 failure were linked (and the 
repairs were related to point of supply faults)
Or these  events are not linked, but the January 2018 failure was caused  by a point of 
supply fault (or faults)
And so, on balance, I am unable to conclude that Mr Ms car was not of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply,  or to find that his car should be rejected.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive 
from Mr M or BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited by 28 December 2018, my provisional 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38450276COPY OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
27 March  2019
complaint
Mr M acquired a new car in January 2017, by hire purchase with BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMWFS). He complains that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He 
wants BMWFS to accept rejection of his car.
background
The background  to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were  set out in my first provisional  
decision dated 28 November 2018  a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this second 
decision. In my first provisional  decision, I explained that I disagreed with our adjudicators view that 
the complaint should be upheld.  
BMWFS agreed  with my first provisional  decision. But Mr M disagreed,  although he said that he 
understood the basis on which I had reached my decision. He provided further evidence which, he 
argued, showed that his cars January  2018 failure  was caused  by a point of supply  fault. This 
evidence included:
A current recall  page  on the UK Driver & Vehicle  Standards Agency (DVLA) website
A safety recall report, dated October 2018, from a foreign jurisdiction
The DVLA recall page refers to vehicles including Mr Ms model of car, built between May and 
September 2015. The recall page relates to the same failure as his car suffered in January  2018.  It 
identifies the cause of that failure as a manufacturing  fault. This gives support to Mr Ms argument, 
although:
His car was first registered in the UK during January  2017, which  I think means it was 
probably built after September  2015
The remedial  action shown on the page is replacement of the failed power delivery system 
part (which is the repair undertaken in January 2018)
The safety  recall report is from a country with similar road traffic standards  to the UK. The report 
refers to vehicles including Mr Ms model  of car, built between  June and September  2016.  
This overseas  recall also relates to the same failure  as Mr Ms car suffered in January 2018. And (like 
the DVLA  recall page) the report identifies the cause of that failure as a manufacturing fault, and the 
remedial action  as replacement  of the failed  part. 
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. My first provisional decision was reached on the balance of 
probabilities. 
BMWFS has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory  quality, and corresponding to their 
description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person  would  have regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances,  which for cars include age and 
mileage travelled. But there are limits to BMWFSs responsibilities. In particular, faults  must be 
present or developing  at the point of supply.
Mr M argues that his car had a point of supply  fault  a power delivery system part had a 
manufacturing fault, which  significantly and unacceptably impaired its durability. 
In my view,  neither the DVLA recall  page nor the overseas safety recall report gives conclusive  
support to Mr Ms argument.  There are questions about whether either  piece of evidence refers  to the 
date and place his car was manufactured.
Ref: DRN38450277On the one hand, it is quite  possible that Mr Ms car (first registered in January  2017) was built during 
the period specified by the overseas recall  (June to September 2016),  which I think  gives additional  
support to his argument. This is on the basis  that:
Either the cars to which the overseas  recall  refers and Mr Ms car were manufactured at the 
same location
Or the fault could have occurred at different  locations during the same time period
On the other hand:
The cars referred to on the DVLA recall page and those referred  to the overseas  recall report 
may have  been manufactured in different locations
The fault could have occurred at different  times in different  locations
And it is also possible  (although, perhaps,  less likely)  that Mr Ms car might have been 
manufactured in a location  where,  and at a time when, the fault was not occurring
But I think the balance of probabilities in this complaint has been altered in Mr Ms favour by his 
further evidence. And so, on balance, I now find that his cars  January 2018 breakdown  was caused 
by a point  of supply fault  the part which  had to be completely replaced in January 2018 was 
insufficiently durable.
In these circumstances, it could still be argued that the cars fault has been remedied in the way 
indicated by Mr Ms further evidence  both the DVLA recalls and the overseas recalls  remedial 
action was to replace the faultily manufactured part, which could suggest  that BMWFSs  settlement 
offer was fair and reasonable.  But this would  not take into account  the previous  problems Mr M 
experienced with his car. 
And so, on balance,  I find that rejection is a proportionate remedy. This means that I have come to the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. 
I also now share our adjudicators view that BMWFS should refund Mr Ms advance payment 
(£5,000), but not the monthly payments  required under his hire purchase agreement. This is because 
Mr M has made reasonable use of his car, despite its problems  it had travelled roundly 21,000 miles 
in the 20 months from acquisition (in January  2017)  to September  2018.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
M or BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) by 27 April 2019,  my revised  provisional 
decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
My provisional  settlement  recommendations are that BMWFS should:
End Mr Ms hire purchase agreement  with nothing further  owed by him 
Collect Mr Ms car at no further cost to him 
Refund Mr Ms advance payment (plus interest at 8% per annum simple  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement) 
Refund the first two monthly payments made by Mr M under  this agreement  (plus interest at 
8% per annum simple  from the dates of payment to the date of settlement)  
Remove all information it may have registered on his credit file, relating to this agreement
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3845027