K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc misled  him into believing it 
would offer him a loan at 2.9% when it would not.
background
Mr H received a letter  from M&S  stating  that he was a highly valued customer  and promoting  
its loans at what it described as a competitive  low rate of 2.9% APR. Mr H intended  to 
purchase a car and so he applied online for a loan of £14,000. The application system led 
him to believe his application had been successful, and he assumed therefore  that 
paperwork would arrive  in due course confirming the loan offer at a rate of 2.9%.  He 
therefore committed himself to purchasing a car by paying the deposit.
But when the offer arrived it was at a rate of 5.9%. Mr H rang M&S to query the rate he had 
been offered,  and said he wanted the advertised  rate. He said he had written  to complain. 
Mr H accepted the loan at the higher rate because he had no alternative given that he had 
paid a deposit on the car. He then also complained  to us.
In its reply to Mr Hs complaint M&S explained that the rate of 2.9% was only indicative, 
which meant that it could  vary. It pointed to statements to this effect  both in the letter it had 
originally sent and as displayed  during the online application process.
In summary,  our investigator didnt consider that M&S had done anything  wrong.  She said 
that the initial promotional letter had stated  that customers could be offered a loan at a 
different APR depending  on their status  and personal circumstances. And that the contract 
made clear that M&S was offering Mr H a loan at a rate of 5.9%, which  he accepted.  She 
therefore couldnt find that M&S had been either  unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr H disagreed. He reiterated his earlier  points  of complaint and emphasised that he thought  
that at best the M&S literature and website had been disingenuous. He also explained why 
he believed  he would  be a standard risk customer for M&S and should  therefore have been 
offered a loan at 2.9%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that financial organisations are not required to offer loans to all 
applicants. And that as long as they act within the law they can accept or reject  applications  
as they see fit. It is also the case that the terms on which organisations offer loans can, and 
often do vary from one person to another subject  to a variety of factors and considerations. 
These may include the organisations  overall  attitude to risk, its current exposure  to risk, its 
assessment of applicants  credit  worthiness,  its view on the extent of applicants current  
borrowing and the loan sum being requested. Decisions  on the importance and relative 
weight to attach  to these in assessing loan applications legitimately rests with the financial 
organisation, and these  are not matters  with which we would seek to interfere. 
I turn now to the essence of Mr Hs complaint, which is that the correspondence  he received 
from M&S  misled him into believing that not only would  he be offered a loan, but that it would 
Ref: DRN32137032be at the stated rate of 2.9%. But having looked at that letter Im afraid  that I have come to a 
different conclusion from Mr H. 
The letter is relatively  short and so reading it in its entirety doesnt take long. With respect to 
the availability  of a loan it says we might be able to help you. In my opinion this clearly  
suggests that an application  may, or may not, be approved. The letter then goes on to say 
With a low rate of 2.9%APR representative on a loan of £7,500 to £20,000 over 48 to 84 
months*  The asterisk is important in that it implies that the preceding  text is in some way 
qualified by further explanation signposted  by the asterisk, which indeed it is, by 4 lines of 
text at the foot of the page. Mr H has said these lines are in small print, which  they are, but in 
my opinion they are nevertheless clearly  legible.  Included in the text are the following 
statements Customers who do not meet our normal  lending criteria may be offered a loan at 
a different APR. This will depend on your personal  circumstances. The loan amount and 
term you request will impact the rate offered. And similar  information is repeated  during the 
online application process.
I am satisfied that this letter  makes it sufficiently clear that not all loan applications will 
necessarily be approved, and that even where they are, the interest rate offered  may differ  
from the representative figure included in the letter. 
Based on the information available to me M&S  do not appear to have  confirmed to Mr H 
during the application  process  that his loan had been approved at a rate of 2.9%.  It is 
unfortunate that he assumed otherwise, and committed himself to a car purchase on that 
basis. But Im afraid I cannot reasonably hold M&S responsible for his decision to do that. 
The formal  offer clearly  stated an APR of 5.9%. Mr H has said he had to accept that offer or 
lose his car deposit,  and that his own bank  wouldnt  give him a loan until the M&S loan 
application had been closed down  a likely period of some three months. But again,  and 
whilst I recognise the difficultly of the position in which Mr H found himself, I cannot in 
fairness hold M&S responsible for this.
Mr H has explained why he believes his creditworthiness and general financial 
circumstances should have resulted in M&S offering  him a loan at 2.9%.  But as I have noted 
earlier it is not for us to replace a financial organisations  legitimate business model with one 
of our own. 
And so having  considered the full circumstances of Mr Hs complaint I do not find that M&S 
has done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN32137033my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3213703