K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that because of delays that occurred with the processing of her request to 
draw her pension benefits she wasnt paid on her normal  retirement  date (NRD). She wants  
The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited  (Royal  London)  to backdate  her annuity 
payments from her NRD. 
background
Mrs P held a pension plan with Royal London which had an NRD of 31 May 2018  her 60th 
birthday. She says shed planned her retirement very carefully and was aware that she 
should receive a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) of £3,334 (with various other  options  
built in). She said that, after speaking to Royal London in May 2018 to discuss the options 
available, she didnt  receive anything further  from it. So she contacted  Royal London in 
August 2018 to ask what was happening.  She says she then received a duplicate  claim form 
and completed it  enclosing the requested documents,  only to be told that her husbands  
birth certificate was also needed.  She says she wasnt ever told of the need to provide those 
documents. 
Mrs P says that following further  delays her first annuity payment was made in 
November 2018  and shortly afterwards she complained  about  the time it had taken to pay 
her benefits.  She said she wanted  the payments to be backdated from her NRD.
Royal London said a retirement pack was issued  to Mrs P on 16 April 2018 and that she 
contacted it on 15 May 2018 when it advised  her of its requirements to complete the 
process. It said it sent the necessary  paperwork  for Mrs P to complete on 15 May 2018   
and had advised Mrs P the forms would be with her in around a weeks  time.
Royal London says Mrs P next contacted  it on 2 August 2018 to query why she hadnt 
received payment and it issued duplicate forms for her to complete. Royal London says that 
thereafter it didnt  receive  her husbands birth certificate that was required  but when it was 
received on 30 October 2018 the original  quotations  had expired and the pension payment  
figures had to be recalculated. The payments were then processed from November 2018.
Royal London said that it would have backdated the payments if the original quotation  
figures had been  used  but as that quote had expired   and it had to recalculate  the 
payments  it paid a new, higher amount from the date that all the outstanding requirements 
were met, so it said it hadnt  caused any delays. 
Mrs P remained unhappy  with this outcome so she brought her complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should  be upheld  as 
she couldnt see that Royal London  had caused  any delays and had paid the pension  
income from the date it received all of the information it needed. 
She said that because  Royal Londons  requirements were fulfilled more  than three months 
after the NRD a new quotation was issued  which  led to a slightly  higher monthly  payment 
being made from October 2018 instead of Mrs Ps NRD.
Mrs P didnt agree, she said shed  made  it clear  that she wanted to draw her GMP on her 
NRD and thought Royal London was being  unfair in not backdating her payments to that 
date. She thought Royal London had processed  the claim  as a tick box exercise and hadnt 
been understanding about the various  delays that had happened.  She asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman and so its been passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN36941232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the investigators assessment and for broadly the same reasons.
I can see how strongly Mrs P feels that as her pension income was for a guaranteed sum 
and was payable  from her NRD shes due five months  of backdated payments from then. 
But Royal London  says it followed  the process  involved in paying Mrs Ps benefits correctly  
and didnt cause  any delays. It said the original  quotes expired  and it had to recalculate the 
figures  which  meant Mrs Ps annuity  was payable from October 2018 for a slightly  higher 
amount.
I have some sympathy for Mrs Ps position here as its clear  it will take some years  for the 
increased income to exceed the amount of the payments shes  lost from May 2018. But I 
dont think Royal London has made  any errors here.  I know that outcome will disappoint 
Mrs P, so Ill explain  why.
Cause of the various delays
Theres no dispute that Mrs P received a retirement pack about  her section 32 pension  plan 
from Royal London in April 2018  nor that she contacted it in May 2018 to confirm what 
options shed  like to choose. Ive listened  very carefully  to that telephone call in which Royal  
London took Mrs Ps instruction and set out the way forward.  It confirmed there was a two 
stage process and explained  how that would work through the following statement.
I will pop the first application form in post tomorrow. Two application forms will be sent out, 
the first one will be sent second  class so please allow a week for it to arrive. This is a green 
form and once we receive  this form back we will send you out a second  application  form 
which is the last stage of the process  and is pink in colour, thats for bank details and it will 
also ask for a photocopy of your marriage  certificate  and a photocopy  of your spouses birth 
certificate. When the pink application  form arrives  it will have a prompt  for those documents.
So I think Royal London was very clear in clarifying  how the process  worked and what Mrs P 
needed to do to in order to get her payments made on time. Mrs P said she wasnt made 
aware of the need to provide copies of the required documents, but I cant agree as Ive 
heard the adviser mention clearly that they would need to be returned  with the application, 
and Ive also seen  this was confirmed within the second application form.
So I think that in May 2018 Royal London explained  the process that Mrs P needed  to follow, 
and Ive seen  that it did send the first application  form out to Mrs P shortly  afterwards.
Mrs P says she didnt receive  that form  and I dont dispute what Mrs P has said. But Ive 
seen evidence to show that Royal London did send it to her address so I cant  safely say it 
didnt sent it and I cant hold Royal London responsible for it not being received.  
And I note that Royal London did clearly tell Mrs P that it would be sent out second  class and 
should arrive  within a week , so I would  have expected Mrs P to have contacted Royal  
London soon after that if she hadnt  received  the form.  As it was Mrs P didnt contact Royal  
London until early  August  2018. 
Ref: DRN36941233Ive also listened  to the call recording from August 2018, in which Mrs P said she hadnt 
received the application  form, so Royal London  agreed to send a duplicate.  Ive seen how 
this was completed and signed by Mrs P on 28 August  2018  although  it stated if the annuity 
option you have  selected includes an income for your spouse on your death, please also 
send us: Your chosen dependants  birth certificate  Your marriage certificate.  
Mrs P says she sent a copy  of the birth certificate  in a separate envelope.  Royal London said 
it didnt receive it and theres no evidence of it being  received by Royal London. But this 
doesnt mean Mrs P didnt  send it and Ive no reason  to say she didnt. But I wouldnt have 
expected Royal London to set up Mrs Ps annuity  without its requirements being  met, and I 
cant say they were fulfilled until the end of October 2018 when Royal London received the 
missing information and recalculated the annuity payments which started  shortly  afterwards. 
Mrs P has suggested that both parties  were  responsible for the delays that occurred from late 
August until October  2018. And that seems a reasonable  view to take here. I can see that Royal 
London says its requirements werent met in full, but I can also see that Mrs S says she did send 
off the necessary copies of documents  which  didnt appear to be received. But overall theres 
no evidence to demonstrate that Royal London did make errors which caused delays. From  the 
evidence Ive seen  it would appear both sides were involved in various communications to try and 
get the outstanding  requirements met and I dont think  there were any obvious mistakes that 
caused delays.
Should Royal London backdate the original pension  payments to Mrs Ps NRD?
When Mrs P fulfilled  the necessary requirements  to receive her pension income she became 
aware that it was going to be paid from October  2018  five months  after her NRD. She 
thinks  as she hadnt caused  any delays,  that Royal London should honour the payments 
from her NRD,  but not at the new higher rate. And I can understand why she would think that 
as she was always expecting a GMP from her NRD, and had planned  her retirement   at 
age 60  around the payments.
But Royal London  has confirmed  that the figures  it quoted Mrs P  which were to be paid on 
31 May 2018  were  only guaranteed for three  months after her NRD. In other words if 
payment hadnt  started by 31 August 2018 the figures could no longer be used. Royal  
London has said these  are internal guidelines which arent set in in the retirement pack it 
issued Mrs P. But, while this confirmation  isnt as comprehensive as Id like it to be, I do think 
that Royal London, like most other providers in this situation, would have an expiry  date on 
any illustration of annuity figures  it provided. 
Thats because it had a duty to reflect the current basis on which the annuity  should be paid. 
And its generally accepted that, after a period  of three months, the factors which are used to 
calculate the level of an annuity  payment  may have changed sufficiently  to give a different 
figure.
Mrs P wasnt  able to meet  Royal Londons  requirements to pay her annuity by the date the 
original quote  had expired (three months  after her NRD) so it was no longer valid.  Royal  
London, in order  to be fair to Mrs P, had to recalculate the benefits due.
I know Mrs P will think otherwise, but as I dont  think Royal London  was responsible  for any 
delays in paying the annuity I cant therefore  say that it should  backdate  payments to Mrs Ps 
NRD. Thats  because I think it had a duty to recalculate the payments which meant  the 
amount it paid, and the date it paid them from would change.  Royal London did what it said it 
Ref: DRN36941234would do if its requirements  werent  fulfilled which  unfortunately meant  Mrs P didnt get her 
annuity payments  from her NRD. 
But ultimately I dont  think Royal London acted unfairly or unreasonably here, so I wont be 
asking it to backdate Mrs Ps annuity payments to her NRD of 31 May 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.  
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694123