K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI).  Mr and Mrs H say 
Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold such a policy  to them  in 2009, when they were 
thinking about rearranging  their mortgage  affairs.  
background
One of our adjudicators has told Mr and Mrs H that they didnt think  the complaint about the 
MPPI mis-sale should be upheld. However, YBS has already paid back some money to Mr 
and Mrs H for the commission it got from selling them the policy.
Mr and Mrs H still think the MPPI was mis-sold in the first place and have asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs mis-sale complaint.
The MPPI was only added in 2009  even though it seems  Mr and Mrs H had had a mortgage 
for quite  some time with YBS. The monthly premium was £3.70  and Mr and Mrs H said the 
MPPI was added without  their knowledge. They also said they didnt need this type of cover.
I see they were given a new mortgage  offer in 2009. The offer clearly says that they arent 
required to buy any insurance  from YBS and the only insurance  they must buy (with any 
provider) is buildings cover.  I also see that Mr and Mrs H were given a written  quotation  for 
MPPI in respect of Mr H. I also note they were  sent a letter  outlining  the discussion  the 
parties had about  MPPI. We now know that Mr H wanted to go ahead only with 
unemployment protection, rather  than the more  common accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. Mrs H wasnt covered by the MPPI  at all.
So Im afraid  I think all this represents  strong evidence that Mr and Mrs H engaged in 
discussions about MPPI and were  aware  of it, although I accept  they may not remember  this 
now. I think it shows they wanted to have this type of policy and agreed to it.
YBS said it recommend  MPPI so this means that it not only had to give clear  information 
about the policy, it had to also ensure it was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. 
Overall, I think it was.
This is because I think Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The mortgage was secured against  their 
home and so the consequences of not being  able to pay could have been serious. The 
policy wouldve paid out a monthly  benefit  of £130 for up to 12 months  if Mr H had needed to 
claim and this would have been  in addition to any other means  he and Mrs H had in place. 
Ref: DRN34479152I think all these things make the policy useful and I dont think that recommending it was 
unreasonable. As Ive said, I think the policy was suitable.
YBS also had to provide information  that was clear  so Mr and Mrs H could make an informed 
decision about whether or not they wanted  MPPI. I cant obviously say Mr and Mrs H were 
told everything they shouldve been told. But of course, this sale was a while ago. 
However I can see documents from the sale that described the monthly cost, who was 
covered and for what. I also think theyd have  been sent or given something explaining the 
policy rules.  So even  after such a long time,  I think its fair to say Mr and Mrs H would have 
had quite a lot of information about  how the policy worked.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  And I dont require  Yorkshire Building Society to pay Mr and 
Mrs H any more money. My understanding is that it has already paid back  some  of the 
commission it received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3447915