K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an error made  by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  in relation 
to a joint mortgage account in the names  of Mr H and Miss B. The complaint has been 
brought by Mr H, with the consent of Miss B.
background
Mr H and Miss B have a joint mortgage  on a property they used to occupy together.  The 
monthly mortgage payment is about  £430.  On 1 April 2019  Mr H contacted Halifax to explain 
that he and Miss B had separated and he wanted  to buy out her interest in the property. 
Miss B had paid the mortgage from her current account but shed cancelled  the direct debit. 
Mr H was told that hed need to set up a new direct debit and Halifaxs  agent took the details 
for this. Mr H was told the first payment would be from 1 May 2019 and so hed need to 
make a manual  payment  for April 2019.  Mr H made  this payment on 1 April 2019  using  his 
debit card. 
Unfortunately, by mistake, the direct debit was also taken for April 2019. Mr H says that this 
left him overdrawn and caused him considerable distress. Mr H contacted Halifax on 5 April 
2019 to complain. He was told that a manual refund could be made  for the debit card 
payment, which  would take 5-7 working  days. Alternatively Mr H could contact his own bank  
and file a claim under  the Direct Debit Indemnity Scheme for a refund of the direct debit 
taken in error.
On 11 April 2019 Halifax refunded the payment to Mr H (and also deducted it from the 
mortgage account).  In its final response, Halifax also explained that it had refunded interest  
of £4, and made a goodwill payment of £100.
Mr H was still unhappy so the complaint was brought to us. He says that Halifax cant 
compensate him for the stress he suffered. He was over £400 out of pocket on a day he 
really needed  some money.  Mr  H says he wants a months payment to be waived or to be 
compensated for the same  amount,  because  thats  the amount by which  he was 
inconvenienced and seems far more fitting than a figure conjured out of nowhere. 
Alternatively, Mr H said he would like a breakdown of the £100 showing how his time and 
inconvenience was valued to that figure.  As a final alternative, Mr H said,  he would accept 
someone from Halifax allowing him to hold on to the same amount of money  he was out of 
pocket for (about  £430), for the same period of time as he was deprived  of his funds 
(6 days), delivered to him in cash to his home  address and collected from at the end of the 
period him by someone from Halifax.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that Halifax  made a mistake when  the direct  debit was taken for April 2019. 
What I have to decide is what  the appropriate compensation for its mistake should  be.
Mr H has said he was greatly  inconvenienced by Halifax and I accept this was the case. But 
hes provided no evidence  to show hes suffered any financial loss or incurred overdraft 
Ref: DRN36289912charges or any other bank  charges as a result of being £430 short on his current  account.  I 
appreciate Mr H considers it to be an invasion of his privacy for us to ask for evidence  of his 
losses, but I have  to base my findings  on the evidence. In the circumstances, Im unable to 
find Mr H has suffered  any actual financial loss as a result of Halifaxs mistake.
Halifaxs mistake  quickly  came  to Mr Hs attention  and he contacted  Halifax  on 5 April 2019. 
He was refunded  on 11 April 2019, six days later. Mr H was also put to the inconvenience  of 
having to contact Halifax about  this matter.
Overall Im satisfied that the offer of compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset caused 
to Mr H is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the mistake that was made  and the 
timescales involved. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Halifax  doesnt need  to do anything 
further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  insofar as Im satisfied the offer of 
compensation made by Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  is fair and reasonable. I 
simply leave it to Mr H and Miss B to decide  whether they want  to accept it in full and final 
settlement of the complaint.
This final decision concludes our consideration of this complaint. This means I will be unable  
to enter  into any further correspondence about  the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3628991