K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that American  Express Services  Europe Limited (AESEL)  misled  him about 
a credit card promotional offer.
background
Mr F applied  for an AESEL credit  card in November 2018. He says a promotional offer 
wasnt available and so he contacted  AESEL  and it agreed to honour the offer.  Mr F says he 
was then given  conflicting information  and told he may not be eligible for the offer. He says 
he would  like an explanation  into what took place and for AESEL to pay cash  back on all of 
his eligible transactions.
AESEL says its looked into matters and has concluded that Mr F wasnt eligible for the offer 
in the first place but it accepts it gave Mr F misleading information and has apologised. It 
says the account  terms and conditions make clear that not all customers  are eligible for the 
promotional offer. AESEL  says it has paid Mr F £70 for eligible transactions  in any event and 
has provided feedback to its staff that gave  incorrect information.
Mr F brought  his complaint to us but our investigator  thought AESEL had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator thought that it likely  that Mr F wasnt eligible for the promotion in the first 
place and that AESEL should  have told him that. The investigator thought  AESEL had fairly 
apologised for what  had happened and that Mr F had the benefit  of the promotion.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says if AESEL said it would honour the promotional offer 
then it should.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr F will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of AESELs promotion and I can see that they say not 
all customers are eligible for it. I think it likely  that Mr F wasnt  eligible for the promotional 
offer in the first place  and can see that he accepts that it didnt appear on his account when it 
was opened. I also agree with the investigator that AESEL should have told Mr F when he 
first contacted it that he wasnt eligible.
There is no doubt here that Mr F was given conflicting information by AESEL. I have no 
doubt that caused Mr F frustration. But Im satisfied that AESEL  has apologised for what 
happened and also explained its position to Mr F and what took place. I can also see that 
AESEL did allow Mr F to enter the promotion  and paid him £70 for eligible  transactions. I 
appreciate Mr F says that not all transactions resulted in a cash  back  incentive.  But hes not 
told me which ones he says were eligible and how much he may have lost out on. So Ive 
looked at Mr Fs account statements and Ive come to the conclusion that there is one 
payment that may have been eligible for a cash  back payment of £5. Ive considered that 
AESEL paid Mr F £70 as a result  of the promotion  in circumstances where I dont think he 
was eligible and so I cant fairly  order it to do anything further here or ask it to pay a further 
£5.
Ref: DRN39684572I appreciate Mr F says AESEL should  honour what  it said it would do. But for the reasons 
Ive explained  Im satisfied that on the whole it did. I also make it clear to Mr F that we are 
not the regulator of AESEL and so I cant fairly  order it to do what he would like in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3968457