K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited (trading as PaydayUK) lent him money that 
he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr E wants  PaydayUK to refund the interest  and charges  that he paid and remove  the loans 
from his credit file.
background
Mr E took out five instalment  loans with Instant Cash Loans  Limited  trading as PaydayUK 
between July 2015 and December 2015. Mr E had previously taken out other loans with 
PaydayUK but a different company was responsible for these. I will refer to the loans that 
form part of this current complaint as loans five to nine.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Es complaint be upheld in part. She didnt think that 
PaydayUK carried out adequate checks before  agreeing any of the loans. However, the 
adjudicator thought that better checks wouldve only made a difference  to PaydayUKs 
decision to lend loan nine. 
The adjudicator thought  that before agreeing loan nine PaydayUK shouldve  tried to 
independently verify the financial information that Mr E gave. And that if it had done this, it 
was likely that PaydayUK wouldve discovered that Mr E had a number of gambling 
transactions on his bank  statements.
PaydayUK agreed to put things right for loan nine. It said it would refund interest and 
charges and remove the loan from Mr Es credit file.
Mr E didnt accept the adjudicators recommendation and PaydayUKs offer. He explained 
that his ability to work and his mental health  were severely  affected  by an accident that he 
had about three years  ago. Mr E said he didnt realise that hed been taking out so many  
loans. Mr E said he was in debt and living  on a reduced income.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to require PaydayUK to do 
more than the adjudicator recommended and that it had agreed to do so far.
PaydayUK was required to lend responsibly. It needed to carry out checks to decide whether 
Mr E could afford to pay each loan back. These checks needed to be proportionate to things 
such as the amount to be repaid, the length  of the agreement and any borrowing history. But 
there wasnt a set list of checks it had to do.
loan nine
PaydayUK had already  agreed to put things right for loan nine so I didnt think  I needed to 
say much more about this loan. 
Ref: DRN36925672loans five to seven
Given the amount  that PaydayUK  expected Mr E to repay each time, I considered  a 
proportionate check shouldve included asking about  his income, living  costs  and regular  
financial credit  commitments.
As far as I could see, PaydayUK only recorded  details about  Mr Es income and then relied 
on the Office of National Statistics living expenses data to decide whether each loan was 
affordable. So I didnt think the checks PaydayUK carried  out were  adequate.
Just because I didnt  think that PaydayUKs checks went far enough didnt necessarily mean 
that I must go on to uphold Mr Es complaint about any of the loans. I would need to have 
been persuaded that with better checks, PaydayUK wouldve discovered that some or all of 
the loans werent  affordable for Mr E.
Mr Es representative told us that Mr Es monthly  outgoings  were  around £750 each month. 
Mr Es representative subsequently told us that it had sent us the figures by mistake but 
didnt ask me to consider any others in their place.
As we had some of Mr Es bank statements from around the time, I could see some  of the 
payments that he was making for things such as insurance, credit card payments and utilities. 
It also looked as though  Mr E was transferring money from one bank account  in to another. 
Overall, I couldnt say that loans five to seven  wouldve appeared unaffordable  had 
PaydayUK asked  more questions than it did. 
loan eight
By the time that Mr E took out loan eight, PaydayUK could see a history of regular 
borrowing. I thought  that PaydayUK  shouldve done  more to make sure that Mr E hadnt  
become reliant  on short term lending. So in addition to asking Mr E about his living costs and 
regular credit commitments, I thought that PaydayUK shouldve  also asked about his other 
short term lending commitments.
Mr E applied for loan eight in mid-November  2015.  As we had bank statements and were 
also dealing  with some  of Mr Es other complaints, I could that he owed money  to other  short 
term lenders. I thought  that with better checks, PaydayUK wouldve  discovered that Mr E 
didnt have enough disposable  income to be able to afford loan eight.
I was sorry to hear about the problems that Mr E encountered as a result of his accident but I 
didnt have any evidence  to suggest  that Mr E made PaydayUK aware of these before 
agreeing the loans.  This meant I couldnt  reasonably say that PaydayUK shouldve  taken   
Mr Es medical history  into account  at the time.
further submissions
Mr E said he had nothing  further to add and PaydayUK accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN36925673my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr E hasnt asked me to consider 
anything further  and PaydayUK  accepts  my provisional decision,  it follows that I make my 
final decision  along the same lines.
putting things right
I dont think that Instant Cash Loans Limited  (trading as PaydayUK) should have agreed 
loans eight and nine. To put things right PaydayUK should:
Refund any interest and charges applied to loans eight  and nine;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any negative information  about  loans eight and nine from Mr Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PaydayUK to take off tax from this interest. PaydayUK 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part. I require Instant Cash Loans 
Limited (trading as PaydayUK) to put things right as detailed in the above  bullet  points.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692567