K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained about how AXA Insurance  UK Plc handled her claim under her travel 
policy. She said it significantly delayed  causing  her extensive distress, trouble and upset.
References to AXA include all its agents  and medical assistance entities.
background
Miss H booked a holiday  abroad, which also include sailing on a boat for several days.  She 
said the cold in the airport hotel room  where  she stayed in prior to her flight  caused her to 
contract bronchitis.  So when she arrived  at her holiday destination, she was very poorly and 
had to attend the doctor. They told her she was unfit to go on the sailing boat. She said she 
then spent most of her holiday attending  the medical centre.
So Miss H claimed for the loss of her sailing holiday,  alternative accommodation as a 
consequence and various medical  costs.
AXA accepted her claim but had difficulties in the clarifying the losses  from the sailing part of 
her holiday.  Miss Hs complaint concerns those delays.
AXA agreed it had delayed and offered Miss H £200 compensation. Miss H didnt think  that 
was enough and brought her complaint to us. The investigator ultimately didnt think AXA 
needed to pay any more compensation. Miss H didnt agree and so her complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I very much appreciate this was a special holiday,  and indeed  a very expensive  one. And it is 
such a pity Miss H became ill and couldnt  partake of the sailing aspect of her holiday, which 
was the object of the entire  trip. That was bitterly  disappointing  for Miss H and I understand 
that. 
But AXA accepted Miss Hs claim and this complaint merely concerns its delay in paying  
parts of her claim. AXA admits it caused  some delays and indeed that because Miss H sent 
parts of her claim to the medical assistance  people  that also delayed things. This caused  
around a months  delay.  
There were also instances where  Miss H was chased for medical fees by the doctors  who 
treated her when she was away. This understandably  concerned Miss H as AXA said her 
claim was accepted. AXA explained  its processes for dealing with such  medical costs and 
indeed had explained this to Miss H initially. Sadly,  it can often take some time for AXA to 
clarify the amounts being charged and then settle the accounts. Im satisfied that AXA did 
the right thing in explaining this to Miss H initially. 
So whilst Miss Hs claim took some time to settle and this concerned her, I think  AXAs  
acceptance of the delays  it caused is sufficient. Since that was around a month, I do 
Ref: DRN39742042consider its offer of £200 compensation is adequate,  bearing  in mind Miss H was assured 
her claim would be met.
Compensation is simply just compensation for trouble caused, this service  and I have no 
power to fine or punish AXA for any of its failings.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3974204