K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Fs credit card application. On this form 
there was an option for PPI and an X has been typed  next to this option. 
As this sale took place  in a meeting and some  of Mrs Fs other  personal details have 
also been typed,  I think that its more likely than not that a discussion took place 
between the adviser  and Mrs F and the X was added to reflect what  she wanted  
before she signed  the overall  form to agree  to what she was taking  out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said - including what  shes said about not needing 
PPI because of her sick pay entitlement. But after six months, Mrs Fs sick pay would have 
decreased to half pay. This PPI policy  could  have paid out for up to 12 months for an 
accident or sickness claim, so I still think that the recommendation  to take PPI was suitable,  
the policy was right for Mrs F and these points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs F paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs F back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs F now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN35336042my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3533604