K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about the failing that he says occurred during the transfer of his pension  
plan. He wants to be compensated  for the loss of investment  growth that he thinks  he 
suffered because his assets remained in cash  and couldnt be invested  during that time.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 10 January 2020- a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. I 
said that I didnt  think Mr P had suffered a financial loss or lost any investment opportunities. 
But I did believe the delays Alliance Trust Savings Limited (Alliance Trust) caused  to a 
significant sum of money  warranted compensation, and I thought the offer of a total of 
£500 was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
Alliance Trust  didnt  make any further  submission  and said it agreed to pay an additional 
£150 on top of the £350  it had already paid.  
But Mr P didnt agree and made the following points:
Wed accepted that Alliance Trust caused  a delay between 20 July and 16 August 2017.  
But we hadnt  looked at the period up to January 2018. Mr P provided details of the 
occasions he contacted Alliance Trust during that time. He said that then led to Alliance 
Trust contacting the ceding provider. So he thought  it was unfair  to conclude that 
Alliance Trust was simply  waiting for the proceeds  of the transfer during that time. He 
thought it should  also be held accountable for delays during those months, as he felt it 
should have done  more  to speed up the process.
He noted the award of £500 was as a result of the impact of the delays which  would 
have caused some concern and frustration.   He wanted to clarify that the poor service  
hed received caused significant concern and frustration.  
It wasnt possible to demonstrate any lost opportunities to trade as there were no assets 
to trade.  And he believed that we would  understand his concern at not being able to 
trade from the numerous phone calls he made. 
He didnt agree with my assertion that, as hed not invested for two months  after he had 
access to the funds, he wouldnt have traded for the previous seven months that he 
didnt have  access to them.  
He acknowledged that it wasnt possible to say how and when  he might have invested 
and so it was difficult  to quantify  a loss. But he thought  it was safe to conclude, through 
his various contacts with Alliance Trust,  that  it was more likely than not that he would 
have traded  in that period.
The £500 compensation for the concern and frustration he suffered  wasnt  sufficient, nor 
did it encourage Alliance  Trust  to improve its customer service levels.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And after careful consideration of the 
further points  Mr P has raised  I see no reason to change  the conclusions  I came to in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN36945922I can see how strongly Mr P feels about this matter and I have some  sympathy  for his 
position. He believes  hes not been sufficiently compensated for the delays Alliance Trust 
caused and for the overall level of customer service he received. He also believes hes 
demonstrated that he would have traded during the time he didnt have access  to his funds.
In my provisional decision I said that Alliance Trust was responsible for the delay between  
July and August  2017 and hadnt given a satisfactory explanation for that delay. And I said it 
should have realised the money it received in February 2018 was in respect  of the transfer 
and not a contribution. I thought the impact of these delays and the frustration and worry 
they caused warranted further payment, which is why I said Alliance Trusts revised offer of 
£500 following the adjudicators earlier assessment- was fair and reasonable. 
But Ive not been provided with any persuasive  evidence to show that Alliance Trust caused 
the delays from August  2017 to January 2018.  Ive seen evidence to show that Alliance Trust 
submitted a transfer request to the ceding  provider but didnt receive the funds  until January 
2018. I take Mr Ps point  that he contacted Alliance Trust  during this time and by its own 
admission Alliance Trust could have been more  proactive in chasing the provider. But I dont 
think I can safely attribute the delays  to Alliance Trust on that basis,  as the work that was 
involved to progress the transfer at that time was the responsibility of the ceding provider.  
I know Mr P believes strongly that he was denied trading opportunities during this time and 
that his communication with Alliance Trust shows that he was frustrated at not being able to 
trade. He thinks its unfair to use the two month period that he didnt trade after being  able to 
access his cash as a true indication of what he would have done  in the preceding  seven 
months. And Ive said previously that I dont  dispute Mr P would have traded at some point, 
which he actually did. But I couldnt  safely  conclude  hed missed out on any investment 
opportunities when there was no evidence of any lost opportunities and Mr Ps actions 
following the cash being accessible didnt demonstrate any investment for at least two months.
Im not disputing that Mr P did invest and trade on his SIPP account as clearly  he did. And I 
understand that he didnt invest for two months after the transfer completed because  he 
didnt think there were any worthwhile trading opportunities during that time. But I simply 
cant identify any specific opportunity he may have lost while his funds were being 
transferred and so I dont  think  it would be fair to ask Alliance Trust to compensate Mr P for 
lost investment opportunities on that basis. 
Because the transfer was completed in-specie and therefore Mr P wasnt out of the market I 
dont believe  hes suffered any financial loss. And while I sympathise with his position  in 
being unable  to trade its difficult  to conclude that an investment opportunity was missed.   
Having considered the impact on Mr P of the delays Alliance Trust caused, I do think the 
award of compensation is warranted.  I think the £500 thats been offered is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and within the range  of what Id expect to see for such 
matters. I know  Mr P doesnt think the award is sufficient and that it doesnt  discourage  
similar future behaviour from Alliance Trust. But our role isnt to punish a business or to 
impose fines. Where  we award redress it is to compensate the individual  consumer  for the 
trouble and upset  a business has caused  them. 
Ref: DRN36945923my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint against  Alliance  Trust Savings  Limited.
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited  should pay an additional £150 to ensure its paid a total of 
£500 to Mr P for the trouble an upset its delays  and actions caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36945924copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains about the failing that he says occurred during  the transfer  of his pension  plan. He 
wants to be compensated for the loss of investment growth that he thinks  he suffered because  his 
assets remained in cash  and couldnt be invested  during that time.
background
Mr P held a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP) into which hed transferred the benefits  from his 
occupational pension scheme. Some months after the transfer he was made aware that the provider was 
changing to a new platform and decided  to transfer the SIPP to Alliance Trust Savings Limited (Alliance 
Trust). Most of the SIPP  was held in cash at that point. He completed the necessary transfer request 
which was received by Alliance Trust on 20 July 2017. But it didnt acknowledge the request until 16 
August 2017  when it requested a valuation of the pension account  from the transferring  provider.
Alliance Trust didnt receive a response until 9 November  2017. It suggested trade and settlement 
dates but as it says it didnt get a response in time, new dates of 28 and 30 November 2017 were 
agreed. So the other provider needed to amalgamate  the proceeds of the settlements and transfer 
that cash to Alliance Trust. But it needed to liaise  with Mr Ps adviser and the third party  that looked 
after its SIPP  administration  to complete  that work. 
By 23 January  2018  the third party contacted Alliance Trust requesting account  details to send the 
cash payment  to. This payment was made on 5 February 2018 with a further smaller  payment made 
on 5 March  2018.
But Alliance Trust says the third party made no reference to the cash  being  in respect of Mr Ps 
transfer and it therefore allocated both payments  to his account  as contributions.  It continued  to 
chase Mr Ps adviser to complete the transfer,  but as the adviser was no longer  acting for Mr P the 
emails werent answered.
Following contact between Alliance Trust and the third party on 18 April 2018, it was confirmed that 
the cash  payments  had been sent previously.  Alliance Trust was able to reallocate the cash to the 
account using the date the transfers were  actually  made. But this meant that  for some considerable  
time  Mr P hadnt been able to trade and invest. So on 23 April 2018 Mr P complained  about the 
delays in transferring his pension.
Alliance Trust upheld  his complaint. It considered that it wasnt  solely responsible for all of the delays 
caused, but in light of its contribution to the delays, it paid Mr P £350 as a goodwill gesture.  Alliance 
Trust also noted that Mr P didnt make any trades until 22 June 2018, nearly two months after the 
transfer competed. And that it was therefore doubtful that Mr P had in fact been prevented from 
trading during the period of delay.
But Mr P wasnt happy with this outcome. So he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
adjudicators investigated it and said it should  be upheld. He noted there had been a number of delays 
in the transfer process, but in dealing  with this complaint,  only took into account those  for which  he felt 
Alliance Trust was responsible. He found that the main delay was due to Alliance Trust incorrectly  
allocating the transfer cash received on 5 February 2018 as a contribution. He also thought that 
Alliance Trust delayed  in dealing  with Mr Ps initial transfer request.
In light of the error, he found that Mr P had been denied access to his cash  for an extended period of 
time and could not have made any investments. So he thought Alliance Trust  should pay Mr P interest 
for the total number of days he believed  had been lost because of Alliance Trusts actions. 
Ref: DRN36945925Alliance Trust didnt agree and in response said:
It didnt agree it had made  a significant  error in allocating the money  as a contribution. It said it 
had been  expecting the money to come from the provider  so it wasnt obvious  the money  which 
came from a third party   was the transfer money. 
Alliance Trust acts as an execution  only business and so wouldnt usually query  or make 
assumptions about requests to invest cash. In addition  the request email was sent to a different 
team which wasnt  dealing with the transfer, so that team wouldnt  normally  be expected to be 
aware of the ongoing  transfer  request.
Although the third party asked Alliance Trust for information in order to transfer the money, those  
details were readily available  on a common system.
It didnt believe  applying the contribution was a significant error and thought it had acted  in 
good faith. Although  it accepted there may have been a misunderstanding for which it had 
offered compensation.
It didnt think it was fair to compensate  Mr P for any hypothetical loss and thought the interest it 
was being  asked  to pay for Mr P being deprived  of his funds  was excessive, especially  as the 
cash account was non-interest bearing. 
It also noted Mr P hadnt traded for some time after the transfer eventually took place and he 
hadnt shown any desire to do so while  the delay  occurred.  So it couldnt agree that hed not had 
access to his funds for trading purposes.
It offered a further  £150 (total of £500) to resolve the matter.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion  and noted that Alliance  Trust contacted  the 
previous SIPP provider on 22 January  2018 when it was confirmed the transfer cash had been sent to 
the third party. Therefore Alliance Trust shouldve been aware the funds that were sent would  have 
been the transfer  in cash. 
He didnt think  it could be properly determined what Mr P wouldve done if his transfer had completed on 
time, but believed Mr P was deprived of access to his funds which needed to be taken into account. 
Alliance Trust didnt agree and asked for the complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman  - so its been 
passed to me for a review.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The delays caused  by Alliance Trust
Its clear that Mr Ps pension transfer took longer  than it should have done  and that it wasnt his 
fault. So Ive looked at the delays that I consider  Alliance Trust was responsible for.
I do think Alliance  Trust was responsible for not acknowledging and dealing with Mr Ps transfer 
request from 20 July 2017  to 16 August  2017. It hasnt given a satisfactory explanation  for its actions  
during that time. So I think Alliance Trust has caused a delay there.  
Ive then considered what happened at the point at which  the third party contacted Alliance Trust to 
instigate payment for the transfer. 
Alliance Trust spoke with the original provider  on 22 January 2018 and established the amount that 
was to be transferred, that it would be made by the third party, and the date the conversation had 
happened. As Alliance Trust would have been expecting to receive the transfer cash shortly after this 
date I would  have expected it to be proactive in chasing up receipt if it didnt happen with a few days.  
This would have uncovered  the fact that the money had been  incorrectly allocated.  
Ref: DRN36945926Ive also seen  emails from the third party dated 23 and 30 January 2018 which requested the 
relevant bank details to allow us to make  payment to Mr Ps account The emails  did identity Mr P and 
the source of the payment  in other words the third party. But I note that it didnt specify  the payment 
was in respect of the transfer. Alliance Trust acknowledged these requests on 3 February  2018. 
I think  Alliance  Trust should have realised  that, for a third party it didnt recognise as being  involved 
with Mr Ps SIPP  to make  a contribution  of over £700,000 to the plan, was quite unusual  and in my 
view unlikely. I think  Alliance Trust ought to have made further checks into the transaction and I think 
it would have  found  without too much investigation  that the request was in respect of the transfer. 
So I think, on balance, that Alliance Trust was responsible for the delay this caused Mr P in potentially 
not being  able to invest his funds  accordingly.
Mitigation of contact with Mr Ps adviser
Alliance Trust has said that during the time the money had been  incorrectly allocated it contacted 
Mr Ps adviser to establish  the position with the transfer. But the original adviser had left and it 
received no response  from the alternative contact that was provided. Ive seen copies  of those  emails 
and I can understand Alliance Trusts position here, as its explained that the transfer couldnt have 
taken place without the adviser  instructing the third party to transfer the cash.
So Ive thought carefully about  this matter and whether the lack of response from the adviser  firm 
could have been the main  reason for the delay. But, while the adviser could have helped Alliance 
Trust to establish that the transfer  had already  been made,  Alliance  Trust  could also have established 
that directly with the third party or original provider. So, overall, Im not persuaded that the lack of a 
response from Mr Ps adviser was the reason that the delay was caused as I think Alliance Trust  
could have accessed that information elsewhere.  
The effect  on Mr Ps ability to trade
Ive established that Alliance Trust did cause delays to the transfer of Mr Ps pension.  And Ive seen 
how its offered a total of £500  for the distress  and inconvenience the delays caused.  In my view thats 
a fair and reasonable offer for the impact the delays had on Mr P, which I think would have caused 
him some concern and frustration  with the time taken to transfer. 
But Mr P says the delays meant his assets werent  available for investment during that time and he 
lost out on potential investment returns. The transfer was carried out in-specie, which  meant that Mr P 
wasnt out of the market  at any time - and therefore hasnt suffered any investment loss on the SIPPs  
assets. But I have considered whether  he did lose out on the opportunity to invest  the cash that was 
delayed in being transferred.  Theres no evidence to show that Mr P attempted to make any trades 
during that time  or that he expressed concern at being denied any such opportunities. 
And I note that following the transfer Mr P didnt  make any investments  with his cash for over two 
months. Mr P has explained that he didnt  think market conditions were  appropriate at the time and 
wanted to be cautious about investing into the market over a period of time. But its difficult to conclude  
therefore that he lost out on investment opportunities when theres no evidence of any investments 
that he tried to make  at the time or that he invested as soon as the transfer was complete. 
I dont dispute that Mr P would have invested at some point  as indeed he did. But, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant safely say that he lost out on investment opportunities because of the 
delays that Alliance Trust caused to his pension transfer. 
Ive also noted the comments about one of the funds within the SIPP  that wasnt transferred in-specie 
and could therefore have  been deemed out of the market for an excessive period. But Ive seen 
evidence that confirms  the fund was sold by the ceding provider due to a corporate action so I dont 
think Alliance  Trust  could  be held responsible for any issues that may have caused.  
Ref: DRN36945927And again, this wasnt invested as soon as the transfer  issues  were  resolved, so its difficult  to 
conclude that an investment  opportunity had been missed with that money.
summary
I think  Alliance  Trust did cause some delays  here which  Ive outlined above. But I dont think  Mr P 
suffered any investment loss as a result  and theres also no clear indication  that he lost any 
investment opportunities  with the cash that was held.  
Alliance Trust has acknowledged the delays it caused and offered  a total of £500 as compensation  for 
the distress that may have caused Mr P. Theres no suggestion here that the pension funds were ever 
in jeopardy, but it was nevertheless a significant amount of money, and I think Mr P was understandably 
concerned by the delays incurred. I think £500 is a fair and reasonable offer in all the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
Alliance Trust Savings Limited has offered to pay Mr P £500 for any inconvenience  that it caused.
So, Im minded to uphold  Mr Ps complaint  in so much as I think that offer is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694592