K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a new credit card in 2001. 
Ill refer to Barclays throughout my decision because its now responsible  for the sale.
background
I can see that Mr F has already been paid some money for the commission  Barclays  
received from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Mr F had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mr F disagreed and still thought he had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. So he asked 
that an ombudsman  make a final decision about his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Barclays sent us its computerised records which show  the card was taken out over the 
internet. We know quite a bit about  these sales because weve seen a few of them  and 
weve spoken in considerable detail to Barclays about how they were  normally  carried out.
Barclays also sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks  Mr F would have 
used during his online  credit  card application. It says he would have been  presented  with a 
yes / no choice about having  PPI with his new card. Barclays  says he would have had to 
choose one of the two options to be able to continue his way through  to the next stage of the 
application and that he must have chosen  the yes option on the screen  for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Mr F was sold PPI. So I think hed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to periodically  see the PPI charges appearing on his monthly statements. I 
also think Mr F would  have  been  sent a welcome  letter explaining the PPI because Ive 
seen other  very similar cases where this was done. Barclays  also sent us a library copy  of 
what this letter would  have been  like in 2001.
So, on this basis I think its much more  likely  Mr F asked  for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if he hadnt agreed, he would have 
wanted to know  what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring.
Barclays didnt provide an advised sale because I think Mr F wouldve made his own way 
through the on-line application in his own time and without any direct help from Barclays.  So
Barclays needed only to provide him with enough  information so he could decide for himself 
whether or not he wanted PPI and whether it was right for him.
I can accept Barclays might  not have done everything right. But the application process 
contained an electronic link to information about  what the PPI covered. The cost of the 
Ref: DRN37227752cover was also shown  beside  where he was invited to make  his choice. So I think  hed have 
had enough information on which to base  his decision.
I also dont think Mr F was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And because it cost £0.69  for every  £100  outstanding on his monthly credit card 
balance, I think it wouldve been affordable  for Mr F. In the event of a successful claim on the 
PPI policy, Mr F wouldve  also been able to have his outstanding balance reduced by 10% 
each month  for up to 12 months. 
So looking  at his overall situation,  I think this is probably why he chose the PPI on his 
application  I think he wanted the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But as Ive 
said, it has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr F. 
But it does  have to pay back  to Mr F any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3722775