K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr S took out the policy by post in 2002,  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  The 
MPPI was free for the first 12 months. And Mr S decided to continue  with it after this period, 
when monthly premiums of about  £23 became payable. The policy covered him for accident  
and sickness. And following a successful claim it would have paid out £900 a month for up to 
12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. As Mr S disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. And Ive followed this in making my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S compliant. I explain why below.
I find that Mr S knew that the MPPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  his signed  mortgage  application.  This has a section in it headed:  
Protecting Your Mortgage Payments   Free insurance offer for 12 months. Below  this there  
are boxes to be ticked to indicate whether  Mr S is eligible for the cover. And then further 
boxes to show details  of the cover  required.  I can see that there are ticks in the boxes for 
accident and sickness cover and a 12 month claim benefit period, as well as an amount in 
the box for main mortgage cover.  Boxes  for other  types of cover have been left blank, as 
have those to indicate why the insurance isnt being  applied for. Im satisfied that this made  it 
clear that Mr S had a choice whether to take the insurance or not.
Nationwide says that it didnt advise Mr S to take the policy.  Mr S says that it did. He says 
this because of the terms of the renewal notice  he received shortly  before the 12-month  free 
insurance period  expired. This says: Remember, should you be unable to work you may not 
be able to rely on the government for help with your mortgage, as state support has been  
greatly reduced and no assistance is available for the first 9 months. This is why [MPPI]  is so 
valuable and maintaining your cover  so important.  Im satisfied that this is just general 
information and doesnt amount to a recommendation specific  to Mr S that he should 
continue with his policy. As Nationwide didnt  advise Mr S to take the policy  it didnt have to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for his needs. It was up to him 
to decide whether he wanted it, in the light of his circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN33878682Even though  Nationwide didnt advise Mr S to take the policy it still had to give him clear, fair 
and not-misleading  information about it so that he could make an informed  decision.  As Ive 
mentioned above,  in his mortgage application  Mr S chose the type of cover  he wanted -
although there was a mistake in the way he completed the form with regard to the monthly 
benefit payable,  so this must have been  agreed later. And the renewal letter,  to which  Ive 
referred above, set out the initial monthly premiums payable.
I dont know what else Nationwide told Mr S about  the terms and conditions of the policy. So 
its possible that it didnt  tell him everything  that it ought to have. But the MPPI was 
competitively priced by reference to similar  policies available in the market at the time and it 
had a reasonable benefit. And although the policy wouldnt have paid out during the first 12 
months for a claim arising from a condition  of which Mr S was aware  at the time he took it 
out, it would  have done so for the remaining 14 years of his mortgage term. And Mr S wasnt  
caught by any of the policys other main restrictions and limitations  such  as those affecting 
someone who was self-employed. So I dont think that fuller  information would have changed  
Mr S mind  and stopped  him taking the insurance.  This means that Mr S hasnt lost out 
because of anything  that may have been wrong in Nationwides sales  process. So theres  
nothing I require it to put right.
                                                                    
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3387868