K821x#15complaint
Mrs O complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited dealt with her private health 
insurance claim.
background
Very briefly, in 2018 Mrs O asked AXA to approve her endoscopy under her private health 
insurance. Before it decided whether to authorise the procedure AXA wanted medical 
information from Mrs Os doctor to see if the claim related to Mrs Os coeliac disease. Her 
policy excludes any investigations and treatments for coeliac disease and related medical 
conditions.
Mrs O complained that AXA shouldnt have asked  for the information. She said:
her GP had told her the symptoms werent related to her coeliac disease
coeliac disease  has various symptoms which can also relate to other and very 
serious medical conditions
in 2012 AXA had refused to cover investigations  for her abdominal/bowel  symptoms 
using the coeliac disease exclusion and it turned  out she had a completely different 
medical condition.  As a result  of her 2012 complaint she said AXA had assured her it 
wouldnt decline investigations of symptoms that could possibly relate to coeliac 
disease until it had been medically  shown the symptom related to coeliac disease. 
AXAs final response  letter to Mrs O said it should  have pre-authorised the endoscopy but it 
would need further information to authorise her doctors recommended  further investigation/s 
of the symptoms. It paid Mrs O £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience 
caused by its delays.
Mrs O complained to us that AXAs hadnt  authorised the further investigation/s  and more  
fundamentally she thought it was still going back on the assurance it had given her in 2012. 
She wanted AXA to confirm that in the future  it would authorise investigations of her 
symptoms until it was established that the symptom related to her coeliac disease.
Our investigator thought AXA hadnt acted  reasonably. It should  have  authorised the further 
tests in 2018. She concluded AXA should  pay for the tests until there  was medical  evidence  
that the symptoms  related to Mrs Os coeliac disease. Mrs O also wanted her claim for 
endoscopy to be included in the previous  years  out-patient allowance,  as AXA delayed the 
treatment. Our investigator  thought AXA should  agree to include the endoscopy costs in the 
previous insurance  years  allowance, not the following insurance years allowance.
Ultimately the parties positions were:
1. AXA agreed  with our investigators recommendation (apart from the issue  at point 3 
below). It said it would  put a note on Mrs Os file to be clear  about her cover. Mrs O was 
concerned about  the wording AXA would use. Its now confirmed what  its note says.  Mrs O 
is unhappy with the wording as she thinks it still isnt clear AXA will cover  investigations  of 
symptoms that can be associated with coeliac disease.
2. Mrs Os April 2018 test/s  had shown evidence of fatty change within her liver. During our 
investigation AXA had asked Mrs Os consultant  if the fatty liver could be related to her 
coeliac disease.  AXA said Mrs Os consultant had confirmed the fatty liver disease  is related 
Ref: DRN37659742to coeliac disease so it wouldnt cover its treatment.  Mrs O said she hadnt been referred for 
fatty liver disease and AXAs refusal  to cover is unfair.
3. AXA said the endoscopy in April 2018  was performed as a day case, so its payment of the 
procedure hadnt  affected Mrs Os out-patient allowance.
4. AXA agreed  to pay the cost of the other  tests  Mrs O had privately  for that episode  of 
symptoms within the remaining  policy terms subject to Mrs O providing invoices and proof of 
payment. It understood shed just had the ultrasound privately.
5. Mrs O said she had her test/s following the endoscopy, and for other symptoms, through  
the NHS  as although she was still paying  for the policy she didnt wanted the stress of asking 
AXA to authorise  the tests. Both parties  agreed AXA would pay Mrs O an additional £100 
compensation for her inconvenience/loss of comfort for using the NHS rather than private 
facilities.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint was sent to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to partly uphold  this complaint. 
I said:
I dont need to make a decision  on the matters that the parties have now agreed. The 
remaining issues in dispute are:
the wording of the note AXAs put on Mrs Os file to clarify her cover
the cover  for her fatty liver disease.
cover wording
Mrs Os policy says:
No benefit is payable  for any investigations  and treatment related to coeliac  disease  
and conditions arising therefrom  or associated therewith.
Following Mrs Os 2012 complaint to AXA its letter  to her said:
Please be reassured that in the future  any claims for abdominal issues  not known to 
be coeliac related will be covered to at least diagnosis.
AXAs point  had been that it believed  the symptoms Mrs O wanted  tested in 2018 could be 
coeliac related. But its now agreed  to not decline treatment on the exclusion for coeliac 
disease until its been medically confirmed  the symptoms or condition relates to coeliac 
disease.
AXA has put a note on Mrs Os file to clarify cover which says:
If the member calls for authorisation for symptoms such  as abdominal  pain, 
tiredness or anything  that might  be related  to her underwriting exclusion for coeliac 
disease etc, the investigations should  be covered in line with the remaining terms 
Ref: DRN37659743and conditions until such time they are diagnosed  as being due to coeliac disease or 
conditions arising  therefrom or associated therewith.
The member  has been diagnosed with fatty liver disease which  can be associated  
with coeliac disease so the member has been referred  to the NHS for this.
Ive seen Mrs Os detailed  points  about  her concerns about the wording. I cant  specify what 
wording AXA must  use on its internal notes (or how it words its policy exclusions). But I can 
decide whether  the notes wording is reasonable and I think  it is. The wording is clear that if 
Mrs O seeks authorisation for tests  for symptoms  that might be related to her coeliac  
disease the investigations should be covered in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
until such time they are diagnosed as being due to coeliac disease  or related conditions.
I understand Mrs O is worried about  what AXA may say if she makes  future  claims.  As our 
investigator correctly explained,  I cant say what AXA must do for any potential future 
situations. If Mrs O makes  a future claim which AXA declines ultimately she can make a 
separate complaint and well consider whether  the decision to decline was reasonable.
cover for Mrs Os fatty liver disease
AXA said Mrs Os consultant had confirmed her fatty liver disease is related to coeliac 
disease so AXA wouldnt cover its treatment. I dont think thats fair. In response to AXAs  
question about  a link the consultant said (in his letter 4 April 2019) coeliac disease can be 
associated with fatty liver.
The consultant has made a generic statement. Ive seen no medical  evidence  that Mrs Os 
fatty liver disease is actually related to her coeliac disease. So I dont think  AXA can fairly  
decline cover  at this stage for that condition based  on the medical information it currently  
has.
I note Mrs O says shes not been  referred for fatty liver disease so I understand that she has 
no outstanding  claims on that matter.
As Mrs O has no loss, because shes accessed  treatment on the NHS  and AXA has said it 
will consider  the invoices from the ultrasound  and other related  tests, Im not intending to 
direct AXA to do anything  in relation to this matter.
Mrs O should note that the general  policy terms do permit AXA to ask for more  medical  
evidence and that she may have to provide this as part of the claims process if she makes 
future claims  related  to this condition. This is a common term in medical insurance policies 
and I dont think it is unreasonable to ask Mrs O to provide. However,  this would be subject 
to what AXA has agreed and outlined in the note it has recorded on its claims notes.
outcome
AXA has paid for the endoscopy and Mrs O said she doesnt have any other outstanding 
claims at present. So I dont need to require AXA to pay any claims. 
AXA says the endoscopy in April 2018 was performed as a day-case, so its payment of the 
procedure hadnt  affected Mrs Os out-patient allowance.  Mrs Os not disagreed so I dont 
need to require AXA to deduct  the payment from a particular insurance years allowance.
Ref: DRN37659744I dont think it was reasonable  for AXA to decline to cover  the investigations into Mrs Os 
fatty liver disease on the medical evidence AXA has available at this stage. It must continue  
to cover the disease  until it has medical  evidence that the condition  is due to Mrs Os coeliac 
disease or related condition as it has agreed to do.
AXA must pay Mrs O an additional £100  compensation (a total of £400 including  the 
payment from its previous  offer), as both parties  have agreed, in recognition of Mrs Os 
trouble and upset  caused by delay in accessing treatment and AXAs  delay in agreeing  to 
cover the treatment its agreed to cover.
responses to my provisional  decision
AXA agreed my provisional decision. Mrs O had detailed comments. In summary:
she hadnt banked  the £300 cheque  AXA sent her for compensation which was now 
out of date so AXA still owed her that amount
she didnt have  any tests carried out privately so has no invoices  to give AXA. The 
ultrasound to investigate her liver was carried out through the NHS  as AXA refused 
to cover.  AXA compensated her for the later NHS tests  but shed received no 
compensation for that ultrasound
the tests she required  following  the endoscopy were  also carried out through  the 
NHS. They were for investigation into bowel bleeding which had been detected by 
the bowel  screening  programme.  She was very unwell at the time and didnt want to 
have any difficulties  with AXA in making  a claim.  Her understanding  was that the 
£100 compensation was for those  tests. Shed agreed to the amount but didnt think  it 
truly reflected  her stress  as a result of AXAs position  
she wouldnt press  her concerns  about  which years out-patient allowance  fees the 
endoscopy should have come from, given  the amount of time passed 
she still had concerns about the wording of AXAs note on her file to clarify cover,  
which she detailed. Shed like a larger text version of the note
AXA had recently initially  declined cover for a separate medical condition,  although  it 
agreed to cover  once  she complained.  She understood  I couldnt look at that issue  in 
this complaint but wanted to highlight  the continuing problems she had with AXA. 
She believed that whenever she claims AXA will initially decline and she hoped for 
more recognition of the effect of AXAs actions on her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the points  Mrs Os made, which  Ive read in detail and only 
summarised above. I havent changed my mind  about what  I think  is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
As to compensation, I wouldnt award  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  in 
relation to each  test Mrs O had on the NHS rather than through  her insurance. I look at the 
situation as a whole. And I dont generally  award  compensation for the time a consumer 
spends on their complaint  unless theres a specific reason to, and I dont think  there is in this 
case.
Ref: DRN37659745Mrs O has found the whole situation  with AXAs decline of her claim very stressful, when she 
already felt unwell.  Shes had the inconvenience of having the tests  through the NHS rather 
than through her policy. But I think the total compensation  of £400 that AXAs offered is a 
reasonable amount. Even if Mrs O hadnt  agreed to that amount, I wouldnt have awarded 
her more than £400 for her overall distress and inconvenience relating to this complaint.
I note AXA initially declined a recent  claim Mrs O made for an unrelated medical condition. 
Mrs O knows  that I cant look into that matter in this complaint. If she wants to make a 
separate complaint to us about that matter she can do so. The compensation award in this 
complaint isnt connected to that separate matter.  
Mrs O thinks she'll be making further complaints to AXA in the future about her cover  under 
the policy. But I cant award compensation in this complaint for distress and inconvenience  
she may have in a future complaint.
I also note the position  with the £300 cheque. For the avoidance of doubt  AXA will need to 
pay compensation of £400 in total (the £300 outstanding and the £100) and Ive changed my 
award wording to reflect the situation.
As to AXAs cover note,  weve sent a copy in larger text to Mrs O as she requested.  She is 
particularly concerned that the wording refers  to in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions and conditions arising  therefrom (coeliac disease) or associated  therewith as 
she thinks AXA will use these  to try to decline claims. She wants the words  clarified or 
removed.
As Ive explained, I cant specify  what wording  AXA must  use on its internal  notes  or how it 
words its policy  exclusions. I still think the notes wording is reasonable. Any claim is going to 
be subject to a policys terms  and conditions. Given the policy exclusion AXA wont  cover 
medical conditions  related  to coeliac disease. 
As Ive said,  I think the file note wording is clear that if Mrs O seeks  authorisation for tests for 
symptoms that might  be related to her coeliac disease the investigations  should  be covered 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions until such  time they are diagnosed as being 
due to coeliac  disease or related conditions. And Mrs O may need to provide medical 
evidence on her symptoms to AXA as part of the claims process  if she makes future claims 
related to this condition,  as the policy requires.
I note Mrs Os confirmation that she has no outstanding claims at present  in relation to this 
complaint and that the period for any out-patient  allowance deduction isnt a disputed issue.
My provisional decision details my findings on AXAs cover for Mrs Os fatty liver disease, 
which neither party  has disputed. AXA must continue to cover the disease until it has 
medical evidence  that the condition is due to Mrs Os coeliac disease or related condition  as 
it has agreed to do.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I partly uphold  this 
complaint. The only award I need to make is about the £400 compensation payment to 
Mrs O, as detailed below
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN37659746I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Mrs O total compensation of £400  (the £300  
and £100 which the parties agreed)  for her distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3765974