K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains about the amount of money Aviva  Insurance Limited  (Aviva) has offered in 
settlement of a claim under her travel insurance  policy. 
background
Ms R holds a travel  insurance  policy as a benefit under her bank  account.  The policy is
underwritten by Aviva.
Ms R lost one earring while on holiday and made a claim under her insurance  policy.
She got a quote from a jeweller of £399 for a replacement pair of earrings and sent this to
Aviva. Aviva  offered to pay £149.50  - half of the cost of replacing the pair, minus the policy
excess. Aviva said if it were to pay Ms R for both earrings  when  she still had one of them,
shed be in a better  position than she was before the loss took place.
Unhappy, Ms R complained to Aviva and then to this service.
Our investigator thought it would be fair for Aviva  to pay Ms R 50% of the value of the
remaining earring, to compensate her for having  lost one part of a matching set.
Ms R accepted our investigators recommendations but Aviva didnt. 
I sent my provisional decision about Ms Rs complaint in January 2019.  In it, I said;
The terms and conditions  of Ms Rs policy say shes covered for lost valuables up to £400.
The definition of valuables includes jewellery.
The policy allows  Aviva  the choice to settle  claims by payment or replacement  and says;
We will pay claims for personal  belongings and valuables based on their value at
the time of loss. We will not pay the cost of replacing  them with new items, and we
will not pay more than the original purchase price of any lost or damaged  item.
Aviva says Ms Rs policy only cover a lost item,  and not a pair. But, I cant see that the policy
makes this clear. In any event, I think its reasonable to consider a pair of earrings to be one
item  as one earring  on its own is clearly of little use to Ms R, and the two earrings were
bought as a pair.
Ms R doesnt know how much she paid for the original earrings and doesnt  have a receipt
for them. Ms R says the jeweller told her it would cost £823  to have one earring made  to
match the one she still has.
Ms R says when she got the quote  for replacing  the pair of earrings, the original type of
earrings she had were  still available to purchase. Shes now been told the original earrings
can no longer be bought.
The purpose of this section of Ms Rs insurance policy  is to indemnify her if something is
lost. This means Aviva should put her back in the position she was in before the loss, as
much as its possible to do so.
Ref: DRN37562812In simplest terms, Ms R no longer has a matching pair of earrings. And, from what weve
been told, it will cost Ms R either £399 or £823  to have  a matching pair of earrings again.
Avivas offer of £149.50 isnt enough to put Ms R back in the position of having  a matching
pair of earrings  so, I dont think this is a fair and reasonable  offer.
But I dont think our investigators suggestion  for Aviva to pay 50% towards the cost of
replacing the other earring is fair and reasonable either. This suggestion  assumes that the
remaining original earring  is still of some use to Ms R, and that it formed  part of a set. But, as
Ive already outlined above, I dont think it does.
So, I need to decide what I think would be a fair and reasonable  settlement from Aviva  in the
circumstances.
I dont think it would  be right to ask Aviva  to pay for Ms R to have a new earring made in
these circumstances   and the policy limit for valuables is £400, which is under half of the
cost of making a new earring anyway.
But Ms R can buy a new matching pair of earrings for £399. Although Ms R says the
originals are no longer  available, I think it seems likely Ms R would be able to purchase a
relatively similar pair of earrings for this amount.
I appreciate Avivas terms and conditions  say the cost of replacing lost items with new ones
isnt covered. But, I dont  think  Ms R can properly be put back  into the position she was in
before the loss in any other  way. So, overall,  I think giving Ms R the money to buy an
equivalent new set of earrings would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I accept that the earring  which remains in Ms Rs possession may still have an intrinsic
value. And, under general principles of insurance,  Aviva is entitled to the benefit of this. I
understand Aviva may not have a salvage facility for jewellery  but I dont think  its fair for 
Ms R to be disadvantaged  by this. So, for the avoidance of doubt, if Aviva wishes  to take
possession of the remaining original earring then its entitled to do so.
So, my provisional decision was that I upheld the complaint. 
Aviva responded to my provisional  decision  and said it had nothing to add. Ms R said she 
didnt have anything  to add either. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Aviva nor Ms R have provided any new information or made any further  
comments, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Ms R £399, less the policy excess. Aviva should add
interest to this at 8% simple per year from the date of loss until the date settlement is paid1.
Ref: DRN37562813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms R how much its taken off. It should also give Ms R a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3756281