K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc closed their joint account and Mr Ms 
accounts without  proper reason. They complain too that the bank registered adverse 
information, and Mr M says that as a result of the closure of one of his accounts  a Help to 
Buy ISA  hes lost out on a government  bonus.   
background 
In or about July 2018 Barclays became suspicious about activity  on one of Mr Ms accounts. 
It closed it and other accounts  and placed his business  account under review. It closed that 
account in September 2018.  
Mr and Mrs M complained, but Barclays didnt  believe it had done anything wrong. They 
referred their complaint  to this service,  where one of our investigators  considered  it. 
The investigator obtained information from Mr M about the transaction  that had caused  the 
bank to have concerns,  and then forwarded  it to Barclays. When it reviewed  that information, 
Barclays agreed to remove the adverse information.  Mr M provided emails  indicating that he 
had tried to send the same information earlier. Our investigator noted however that the bank  
had provided warnings that those emails hadnt been delivered.  Since  it was unaware of the 
information sooner,  the investigator  didnt  think the bank had acted unfairly in not removing 
the adverse information until it did. 
The investigator was also satisfied that Barclays had been entitled to close the account in 
the way it did. 
Mr M commented too though that one of the accounts the bank had closed  had been  his 
Help to Buy ISA. As a result, he said, hes lost the opportunity to claim a government 
payment available to customers  who use funds from such  an account  to purchase a first 
property. The investigator said however  that the bank  had provided the necessary  
documents to enable  Mr M to claim the bonus, even though the account was closed.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  conclusions and asked that an ombudsman  
review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill comment first of all on the closure of the accounts. Banks can generally  decide for 
themselves whether or not to offer  or continue to offer  banking  facilities  to their 
customers. As long as they exercise  that commercial discretion in a legitimate manner (for 
example, without unfair discrimination)  this service wont generally intervene.  Im satisfied in 
this case that Barclays  was within its rights to close the accounts in the way it did. 
I agree  too with the conclusions that the investigator reached about  the removal of the 
adverse information.  I accept that Barclays didnt receive the information that Mr M had tried 
to send, and so it wasnt in a position to act on it. When it did receive the information, Im 
satisfied that it reviewed and acted  on it in good  time. 
Ref: DRN30044742I turn now to the ISA. As long as certain  conditions are met, the government  will pay a bonus  
of 25% on savings in a Help to Buy ISA. One of the conditions is that the proceeds of the 
ISA are used  towards the purchase of a property by a first-time-buyer; another is that the 
minimum bonus is £400 (paid on savings of £1,600). If the ISA is closed, the provider should 
provide the customer  with a closing statement to show that the account  has been run in 
accordance with the ISA rules. 
The investigator asked  Mr M to provide evidence that he hadnt been  able to claim the bonus 
 for example, by way of documents relating  to a property purchase. Mr M hasnt done so. I 
notice too that Mr M often  moved money out of the ISA and that only occasionally was its 
balance more than £1,600; it was just over £1,600 at the time of closure.  Its not obvious 
however that the account was being  used by him as a vehicle for saving for a property 
purchase, and certainly not in the short term. 
But in any event Barclays did provide Mr M with a closing  statement. It included a statement 
saying that the account had been operated in accordance with the scheme rules and that it 
should be given  to an Eligible Conveyancer so they could apply for the bonus. Im not 
persuaded therefore that Mr M did lose the opportunity to claim the bonus; if he did, it wasnt 
because of anything  Barclays  did or didnt do.
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 July 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3004474