K820x#14complaint
In 1999, Miss B took out a loan with Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).  At the same time,  Lloyds  
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. Miss B thinks that Lloyds mis-sold this 
policy to her and wants it to refund the premium  she paid for it, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Lloyds mis-sold PPI to Miss B and didnt recommend  that it should give her any money  
back. Miss B disagreed  with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
complaint, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Miss Bs case. Ive looked into everything that Miss B and Lloyds have told us 
or sent us about her complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Lloyds and Miss B have  agreed that Lloyds arranged the loan and sold PPI to Miss B during 
a meeting at one of its branches. Miss B has told us that Lloyds added the PPI policy to her 
loan without telling her about  it. Shes said that as a result she feels shocked  and 
disappointed. Lloyds  has told us that it gave  Miss B a choice  to take the loan with or without 
PPI. 
Neither side has been able to send  us any of the original personal paperwork from the 
meeting. Given how much  time has passed,  I dont find this surprising. But Lloyds  has sent 
us an example of the credit agreement form it says it was using  to arrange loans of the type 
Miss B took in 1999. I think this paperwork  shows that Lloyds  probably  did give Miss B a 
choice. 
The form mainly contained  information about the loan itself, but there was a small separate 
section for PPI, which Lloyds called  Optional Loan Repayment Protection . This section  had 
Yes and No tick boxes to show if customers wanted to buy PPI or wanted to apply for a 
loan without it. Customers would  have had to sign the form to take the loan. I think  its highly 
likely that Lloyds used  a form like this with Miss B and discussed PPI with her during the 
meeting, before she signed her credit  agreement. As this happened a long time ago, I fully 
accept that Miss B may no longer remember these details, but Im satisfied that Lloyds gave 
her the choice to apply  for the loan with or without PPI and that she chose to take it. 
Lloyds has told us that it recommended PPI to Miss B and advised her to take it. Miss B has 
told us that she cant  remember Lloyds making such a recommendation. But if Lloyds did 
recommend PPI, it would  have had to check that the policy it sold to Miss B was right for her 
and tell her about  it clearly and fairly  so she could decide if she wanted it. So in fairness to 
Miss B, Ive looked  into her complaint on the basis that Lloyds did recommend  PPI to her. 
As there are no records from the meeting, I cant tell what  questions, if any, Lloyds asked 
Miss B about her situation and potential need  for insurance before it recommended  the 
policy to her. So Ive looked at the policys  features and considered what  I know  about Miss 
Ref: DRN35785922Bs circumstances  at the time, to see if it was reasonable  for Lloyds to make its 
recommendation. 
The policy had eligibility rules, which Miss B met, and she doesnt seem  to have been caught 
by any of its main exclusions and limitations. Miss B paid for the policy by taking an extra 
loan on which she paid interest. If she had repaid the main  loan and cancelled  the policy  
early, she probably wouldnt have received a proportionate refund on the cost of the policy.  
But I havent seen  anything to suggest  that she thought she was likely  to repay it early. 
Miss B has told us she had some  savings which she could have used to repay the loan if she 
lost her job. She would  also have  received  some  redundancy pay. But she may well have 
wanted or needed this money  for other things and the policy  could have helped her to keep it 
set aside for these other uses. Miss B has also told us that if she was off work ill, her 
employer would have  paid her sick pay. But the policy  would have paid out over and above 
Miss Bs sick pay and lasted for longer. 
Overall, I think Miss B had a potential need for PPI and it could have been useful for her; so I 
think it was reasonable  for Lloyds to recommend the policy to her. 
I accept that its quite possible that Lloyds  didnt explain everything about  the policy to Miss 
B as well as it should have done.  Shes told us that Lloyds didnt let her know that if she took 
PPI she would end up paying  more  in interest  as well. I accept that Lloyds may have failed 
to explain this, but the amount of interest  that Miss B had to pay was relatively small and she 
seems to have been able to afford  the cost of the policy. So I dont think  she would have 
changed her mind even  if Lloyds had explained the interest charges clearly.  Similarly, as Im 
satisfied that Miss B was eligible for the policy, that it was suitable for her and that she had a 
potential need  for cover,  I dont think she would  have chosen not to buy it if Lloyds had 
explained everything properly. I dont think Lloyds  mis-sold PPI to Miss B. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about  Lloyds Bank  
PLC. Im not going to tell it to give her any money  back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019 . 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3578592