K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains TSB Bank Plc will not refund a disputed transaction.   It also closed his 
account when  he complained.
background
Mr M says he noticed a transaction to an online retailer  A  on 15th April 2018.   It was for 
just over £2100  but he hadnt made  the transaction and neither did he recognise it.
He complained to TSB about it.  TSB looked into matters but decided not to refund the 
transaction.  It didnt  make contact with A in order to query the transaction but said it was 
going to hold Mr M liable because  the payment had been made not long after Mr M had 
transferred funds of £2000 into the account.  Based  on this, it rejected his complaint and 
closed his account.
Mr M then came  to this service.  Our  investigator asked TSB for online banking  details to 
show whether Mr M had been logging on during the relevant time.  These were not available 
due to an IT upgrade.   Neither was TSB able to provide any IP address  details for the 
transaction.
It did say that the day before the disputed transaction, an attempt for the same amount had 
been made on Mr Ms account.  This  was declined due to insufficient  funds.  Mr  M then 
transferred money  into his TSB account and this allowed  the subsequent transaction to go 
through.
Our investigator was also told that the day after Mr M reported these transactions  to TSB, a 
further two attempts were  made on his account but declined.
Our investigator thought TSB should  refund the money to Mr M and pay him £200  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.  TSB refused and the matter was passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr M authorised 
this payment, TSB is entitled to hold him liable.   But TSB needs to show  Mr M consented to 
the payment as well as the payment being authenticated   and I emphasise the burden is on 
TSB to show Mr M authorised the payment.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied the payment was authenticated i.e Mr Ms 
card details were used to make the payment.
However, I dont think the evidence  satisfies  me that he consented to the payment. 
TSB has told this service Mr M logged onto online banking before the failed attempt at the 
transaction on 12th April 2018.   It would  seem odd that he would then proceed  to attempt a 
transaction which he knew would fail.
Ref: DRN35169682It has also told this service  that he logged on again  after making the transfer  of £2000.   That 
would seem compatible with someone wanting  to check the funds had hit the account.  
However, TSB queried  where the funds of £2000  came  from as this was an unusually  high 
credit to Mr Ms account.
Our investigator looked into this because TSB had failed to do so previously.  The bank 
which the payment  came  from confirmed it came from an account  in Mr Ms name and it 
concluded the money must have been  part of a PPI refund which Mr M had received.
There is some uncertainty about  the provenance of the funds  because when Mr M initially 
spoke to this service about the money  he had transferred into his account, he said it came  
from the sale of a house.  I dont think he could confuse the two.
So, Ive thought carefully about whether this discrepancy alters  my decision in anyway - and 
I dont think that it does.  On its own, it does  not show Mr M consented.
Finally, we have the issue about the lack of contact with A.  TSB did not do this but 
seemingly appear to insist  that this service do so.  I remind  myself of where the burden lies 
in order to show consent and I find TSBs lack of communication with A  or even an attempt 
to make contact  fell short of what is expected  in these  particular circumstances.
This service did make  contact with A.  It confirmed  the payment had been  made  through  Mr 
Ms account  but had been delivered to a locker rather than his address.  It also confirmed  Mr 
M had raised  the dispute with it but that no refund had been issued.  It refused to provide 
any further details   despite Mr M giving his consent to this  because it was concerned  
about breaching  Mr Ms data.
TSB submit A is hiding behind the excuse of a data breach.   It says A will not disclose 
information because  this information  might  show its system had been compromised and Mr 
Ms account  had been hacked. 
Again, I remind myself of where the burden lies for showing authorisation  and the remedy  
which follows if that burden cannot  be discharged.
As I am satisfied the transaction was not authorised, TSB cannot  hold Mr M liable for it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
TSB Bank Plc must pay Mr M:
-£2118.59
-interest at the rate of 8% from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement
-£200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3516968