K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) trading as Very, has 
charged interest on a buy now pay later (BNPL) item. 
background
In December 2017, Mrs L opened  an account with SDFC and acquired  a laptop on a 
12-month BNPL basis, this meant  interest would only be added to her account if she didnt 
pay for the laptop  within the 12 months.
Mrs L said shed paid in excess of her minimum payment during this period to reduce the 
amount she owed. But said she couldnt  understand why her balance wasnt reducing. And 
was surprised when  she logged into her account to find £230 interest had been added  to it. 
SDFC said the amount  of interest charged  was correct as Mrs L hadnt paid the balance for 
her laptop  by the end of the BNPL period.  It said its terms and conditions made clear that 
Mrs L had to say whether  any part of her monthly payment was to be set against her BNPL 
items. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with SDFCs response  as she said she found  the explanations on her 
statements about BNPL confusing and unclear. And she felt pressured into closing  her 
complaint so has referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said SDFC had applied  the interest  correctly and didnt ask it to do anything 
differently.
Mrs L didnt agree and said shed read a paper by the Financial  Conduct  Authority that 
highlighted the issues she had raised.  And she didnt think  the investigator had addressed  
the issues about how her complaint was handled.  Mrs L has asked an ombudsman to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
The Financial Conduct Authority has introduced new rules  surrounding  BNPL  offers.  The 
partial repayment rule, which will prevent backdated  interest from being charged  on repaid 
amounts, came into effect on 12 November 2019. This means from this date firms cannot 
charge backdated  interest on amounts of money that have been repaid by the consumer 
during the BNPL  offer period. 
The rules  arent retrospective, so in looking at Mrs Ls complaint Ive considered whether 
SDFC have been  fair and reasonable in its actions.
In December 2017, Mrs L acquired two items  both on a BNPL  basis.  One item, a mirror had 
a nine-month BNPL option, the other, a laptop  had a 12-month BNPL option. 
SDFCs terms and conditions say:
Ref: DRN38541072BNPL offers  will normally be interest  bearing  unless you pay for the item in full before the 
end of the BNPL deferred period, but if you do so you won't have to pay any interest on that
transaction.
This meant to avoid  interest of £37.35  being added to Mrs Ls account, an amount of 
£132.19 had to be paid by 5 October 2018 for the mirror. And to avoid interest  of £236.10  
being added to her account an amount of £542.98  had to be made by 28 December 2018 for 
the laptop.
I can see Mrs L didnt acquire any other items  or make any payments to her account until 
October 2018, when  she made a payment of £200. This payment settled her BNPL 
agreement for the mirror, so no interest  was added to her account. As the amount was 
greater than Mrs L owed  for the mirror the balance of £67.81  was set off against  her BNPL 
for December 2018. This reduced the amount Mrs L had to pay from £542.98 to £475.17 and 
the potential interest  to £231.16.
Mrs Ls statement dated 10 November  2018 I think clearly explains when the BNPL period 
will end and that interest will be added  to the account if the balance isnt paid in full. It also 
gives the option of spreading the cost by including the amount into Mrs Ls minimum 
payment.
I can see from Mrs Ls statement dated  8 December 2018, she had a carried forward amount 
of £475.17 (her BNPL balance).  Mrs L made  a payment  of £100 and used two £20 vouchers, 
so a total of £140 was credited to her account.  
Mrs L said shed thought the payment she made would have reduced her BNPL balance. As 
outlined above,  this is what happened to the remainder of the payment she made in 
October 2018. But by 6 December 2018,  Mrs L had acquired further purchases totalling  
£95.99. So, for her payment to be specifically paid against her BNPL balance she would 
have needed to tell SDFC to do this. I cant see that Mrs L did this, so as her BNPL  wasnt 
yet due for payment, the credit was applied to the new purchases as they werent on a BNPL  
basis and were accruing  immediate interest.  What was left of this payment was used to 
reduce Mrs Ls BNPL amount to £431.16 and the potential interest to £230. 
The balance of £431.16 was carried forward to Mrs Ls next statement. As the BNPL  period 
had now come to an end, and no further  payment was made. The £230  interest  accrued on 
this balance was added  to her account.
I can understand Mrs Ls frustration, but I think SDFC  has been clear  as to what  would 
happen if any BNPL balance wasnt paid in time. And Mrs L knew to clear her balance  in 
October 2018 to prevent interest being  added to her first BNPL  product. 
Mrs L did pay more than the minimum payment on one occasion  before the end of her 12-
month BNPL agreement.  But as outlined  above  this payment was used to clear  other 
purchases that were  already accruing interest which is what Id expect  SDFC to do. And it 
applied what  was left to Mrs Ls BNPL balance, but this wasnt enough  to clear the 
outstanding amount by the necessary December date. 
I know Mrs L wont be happy with my decision,  but I dont think  SDFC have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying the interest  to her account  as she hadnt paid the balance  by the 
end of the BNPL period. And the interest  SDFC added to her account was reduced  to reflect 
the payments  already made and the balance of the BNPL transaction  that was left.
Ref: DRN38541073Mrs L has said she wasnt happy  with the customer service given by SDFC. But I can see 
SDFC have tried to explain to Mrs L how her BNPL interest has been applied, by email and 
telephone. And referred her to us, as she remained unhappy with its response.
So, I wont be asking SDFC to do anything  differently.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3854107