K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that AWP P&C SA, which underwrites the manufacturers  warranty for his 
car, didnt  agree to cover the cost of an item he wanted to claim for after it broke down.
 
background
Mr Bs warranty covers  a large  number of components that may fail or need replacing.  After 
his car broke down  in December 2018,  the repairs to the gearbox and drive  shaft  were  
covered by AWP under the warranty.  But a further  fault was found at that point. The garage  
said the cars timing  chain  needed  to be replaced.  AWP declined to cover  that item.  It said 
Mr B hadnt  kept the car serviced in line with the manufacturers advice. In particular, it said 
the oil service was overdue by 6,213  miles. It said the timing chain was service  dependent.  
Mr B said he hadnt been aware of the servicing requirements, but that hed tried to book a 
service at the end of November 2018. It was arranged  for January 2019, but the car broke  
down in the meantime. He also said the garage  that carried out a service in October 2017 
should have replaced the timing chain. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Bs complaint. She noted that the services for Mr Bs 
car had been  overdue in 2016 and in 2017  as well as at the time the car broke down  in 
2018. She didnt  think AWP  had acted unfairly. She said the warranty  required the 
manufacturers advice  about  servicing to be followed  and the timing chain was service 
dependent. She said the manufacturers  recommendations  were set out in the manual 
supplied with the car, so they werent  something for AWP to provide. She said we couldnt 
look into the actions  of the garage Mr B used  in 2017.
Mr B produced an email  from a dealership garage  that said the timing  chain wasnt  a 
serviceable item and would only require replacement due to a fault.  Based on that, Mr B said 
the item should  have been  covered. The investigator said the timing  chain was service 
dependent, in that without an oil service at the right time a lack of lubrication to the chain  
could cause a fault. And in any event, Mr B hadnt  kept to the terms of the warranty.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP paid for two high-cost components (the gear box and the drive  shaft)  as it thought  their 
failure wasnt service-dependent. It said the timing chain fault was service-dependent. As 
one of the reasons for a timing chain failure  is the lack of good lubrication  from engine oil  
and the oil change  was well overdue - I think  it was reasonable  for AWP to conclude  that the 
timing chain was service-dependent  and that the fault may have  developed  due to that.
Although Mr B tried to book the car in for servicing at the end of November  2018,  it looks  as 
though he should have  done so much earlier. When the car broke down very shortly 
afterwards, a service was already 6,213  miles overdue. A full service  was carried out at that 
point, but AWP thought  that was irrelevant.  At the time the fault developed, the service 
hadnt been done on time, in line with the manufacturers recommendations. Had that been 
done, the warranty would have been  valid and the fault may well have been prevented. 
Ref: DRN38046972I think its reasonable to say that Mr B should have checked the manufacturers advice about 
servicing the car when he bought it. And I think he could also have done so when he got the 
warranty. The warrantys wording is clear. It says in order for it to be valid,  the car must be 
serviced regularly, in line with the manufacturers advice. It says the cars service records  
must be updated and receipts for the services retained. And it says failure to keep to the 
warrantys terms and conditions will result in the rejection of a claim. 
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for AWP to decline to cover the cost of 
replacing the timing  chain.  I think it was reasonable to do that based on the fact that Mr B 
hadnt complied  with the warrantys terms and conditions  and the fault it declined also 
seemed to stem  from his failure  to do so.
If Mr B thinks the garage that carried out the cars service  in 2017 should have replaced  the 
timing chain, he will have to raise  the issue with the garage. It isnt something  we can 
consider, as the garages actions dont  fall within our remit. 
As I dont think AWP acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3804697