K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bradford  & Bingley Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
to them  alongside  a mortgage.  
background
The PPI that Mr and  Mrs  N bought was taken  out when Mr and Mrs N applied  for a further 
advance. It was set up to cover the whole  of their mortgage repayment. The cover was taken 
out initially in 1988 and then amended  in 1991. It was set up to cover Mr N only.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with 
that view. So the matter  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
On considering the paperwork, it seems that PPI was sold during a meeting between the 
parties. I cant  know what was said during those meetings. So to help me decide whats 
likely to have happened, Ive looked  at what Mr and Mrs N remember. And Ive also 
considered the paperwork  thats available from the time.  Ive dealt with both sales at the 
same time. Thats because as I said above,  the policy covered Mr N only. And his 
circumstances didnt  change between 1988 and 1991. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr and Mrs N would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I can see that in order  for PPI 
to be added, Mr and Mrs N had mark a box to say they wanted cover. And theyve done  so.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs N said this was their first mortgage and they felt overwhelmed  
by paperwork.  I can understand why they felt overwhelmed. Having said that, I think that the 
paperwork probably reflects what was discussed between the parties. And although  I 
appreciate taking out a mortgage can be a daunting experience, I think  they probably knew  
the cover  was optional  and they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want it. 
Ive treated these sales as advised.  So that means  Bradford & Bingley had to make sure the 
PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ns needs.  It also had to give them  enough information 
about the cover so they could decide  for themselves whether it was a good fit for their 
needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. 
To help me decide whether the cover  was suitable,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
the PPI. And Ive also thought about  what Mr and Mrs N told us about their personal 
circumstances at the time of the sales. 
I can see that if Mr and Mrs N had to make a claim on the policy, Mr N would have been 
covered for two years  if hed been made  redundant. For the first policy, if hed been too ill to 
Ref: DRN34267112work, hed have been covered until he was well enough to return.  For the second  policy, 
hed have been covered  for up to two years. 
Mr and Mrs N told us that Mr N would have  got six months full pay and six months half pay 
from his employer if he got sick. So the PPI would have paid out for longer than his sick pay. 
Mr and Mrs N also told us that they had some  savings they could have used to pay the 
mortgage if Mr N was out of work. But I think the PPI would have  paid out for longer than 
those savings would have lasted. I think its important for me to say that the mortgage  was 
secured on Mr and Mrs Ns home.  So it was at significant risk if they fell behind with their 
repayments. I think that with PPI, they could have  used  their savings on their other  essential  
expenditure at what would have  no doubt  been  a stressful time for them if Mr N couldnt 
work. 
Mr N appears  to have been  in good health  when  this PPI policy  was taken out. So I dont 
think hed have been affected by any of the policies  exclusions about medical  conditions.  
And I havent seen  anything else that was unusual about their circumstances that would 
have stopped Mr N from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. Overall, I 
think the policy was suitable for their needs. 
I think its possible that Bradford & Bingley didnt tell Mr and Mrs N everything it should  have  
done about the PPI cover.  But Ive set out above  how the PPI could have been helpful for 
them if Mr N was out of work. So I dont think  more  or better information about  the cover  
would have put Mr and Mrs N off buying  the PPI. 
With all of this in mind, Im afraid I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bradford & Bingley Plc and I dont require it to take any 
further action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3426711