K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained that Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. unfairly refused  to pay her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy 
claim.
A friend of Ms C's has helped her to bring  this complaint. But for ease of reading Ill refer to 
his comments as being those of Ms C.
background
Ms Cs car was stolen.  Her motor insurer paid her claim  for the stolen car and she claimed 
on her GAP policy. Mapfre refused  her claim because it said that shed given the thief 
access to her keys. Ms C brought her complaint about that to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it.   
Ms Cs policy  has an exclusion  that says Mapfre won't pay a claim:
If your vehicle is stolen by any person who has access  to the keys of your vehicle  
including but not limited  to family  members.  This does not include occasions where 
access to the keys was gained  using  forcible  means.
In this case Ms C believes that she left her car keys on an outside windowsill next to her 
backdoor when  she went into the house.  Mapfre applied  the exclusion above  to decline the 
claim. It said that it felt Ms Cs claim was legitimate but shed acted negligently.  But I don't 
think thats fair and Ill now explain why.
I don't believe the thief did have access to Ms Cs keys. In order  to get those the thief had to 
enter Ms Cs garden. Theres no evidence or suggestion the thief was anyone  who Ms C 
would allow to enter her back  garden. So in order to get hold of the keys the thief needed to 
trespass on Ms Cs property. So I don't think the thief did have access to the keys.
Also, the policy doesn't define what forcible means are. But in order to get into her garden 
the thief would most  likely have had to open the garden gate. And generally we take the view 
that using force includes making  some effort like turning a handle. So I think that by 
opening the gate and entering Ms Cs garden  the thief has used  forcible means.
It follows that I don't think Mapfre  turned down Ms Cs claim fairly. So I think  it should  settle  it 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of her policy. And as Ms Cs been  without the 
use of that money,  Mapfre should add simple interest to its claim settlement at a rate of 8% a 
year from the date of Ms Cs claim to the date it makes payment.
Ms C accepted my provisional decision. Mapfre didnt provide any further comment.
Ref: DRN38434882my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Ms C nor Mapfre objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre  Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to settle Ms Cs GAP claim subject 
to the remaining terms and conditions of her policy. It should add simple interest to its claim 
settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Ms Cs claim  to the date it makes  payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Mapfre  considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should  also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3843488