K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc is acting unfairly and unreasonably by refusing 
to let her have a new mortgage product while renting out her residential property. She wants  
to be put back  into the financial  position  shed have been in if shed got the interest rate she 
desired. 
background
Miss S had a residential mortgage with Barclays. She got consent to let it out as she needed  
to live elsewhere to deal with family matters. Miss S then wanted to take out a new product 
with a different  interest rate for the mortgage as her current product  was coming to an end. 
Barclays refused as Miss S had consent to let. Miss S said Barclays shouldve told her 
before giving her permission to rent out her property that it would mean  she couldnt get a 
new interest rate or mortgage product  while the consent was in place.
Miss S complained to Barclays. It said Miss S was made aware during the application  
process to get consent to let that doing do would  affect her ability to get a new product. 
Barclays noted that it was set out in writing  to Miss S that while  consent  to let in place, no 
change to the mortgage (including interest  rate) would be permitted.
Miss S complained to us, saying that her circumstances  were  exceptional  and she should be 
allowed to have a new mortgage product. The adjudicators view was that Miss S did speak 
to Barclays staff but she wasnt given formal advice  about the consent to let and it was her 
choice to proceed. He noted  that it was explained to Miss S in the calls that the alternative  
was a permanent  change to a buy to let mortgage, which  Miss S said wouldnt suit her 
needs. The adjudicator said that Miss S was sent documents to make the application,  which 
included a term that the mortgage couldnt be normally changed if consent to let was in 
place. Miss S signed to accept the terms. He noted that the policies allowing a change didnt 
apply to Miss S case and that Miss S had opted  out of receiving  marketing materials, which  
was why she wasnt told about new products available.  The complaint wasnt  upheld.
Miss S disagreed. She said the terms didnt make it clear that when the current mortgage 
product ended, the mortgage  would move onto the standard variable rate. Miss S asked for 
an ombudsmans view and said if the adjudicator  was right, then she shouldnt  be paying 
interest at the standard variable rate. The adjudicator explained to Miss S the difference  
between a mortgage and a mortgage  product, and that he didnt think  Barclays  was at fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its relevant for me to note that Miss S took out a residential mortgage  originally. This is a 
mortgage over the property she was expected to live in. Renting out such a property  can 
only be done if the lender agrees. But lenders  offer different  mortgages  to properties which 
are to be rented out, called buy to let mortgages.  Generally,  such mortgages charge a higher 
rate of interest as the risk for the lender is higher.
Ref: DRN33445252Effectively Miss S proposal to be able to rent out her property and only pay the interest rate 
application to residential properties  isnt one which many lenders would accept for the 
reasons I set out above. If a customer wants to rent out a residential property, its not 
uncommon for the interest rate to be increased  or for restrictions  on the products available to 
be put in place. Lenders can decide  to whom  to lend and on what  basis, and create  lending  
policies to make such decisions,  provided  such policies are applied  fairly and reasonably.  
Barclays policy is that residential properties  with consent to let cant have the benefit of a 
new residential mortgage product, and I cant interfere with that. Theres no evidence  that 
this policy  has been unfairly or unreasonably  applied to Miss S, or that the policy allows  her 
to change the residential mortgage while letting out her property.
But Miss S also complains that she wasnt told before getting  the consent  to let about  the 
future effect  on her ability to change her residential mortgage product. Miss S signed  a 
document when  she applied  for consent  to let which says clearly  that while the consent to let 
is in place, she cant change the mortgage,  including the interest rate. Its not unfair or 
unreasonable for a lender  to believe a consumer has read a document  which  they have 
signed affecting their mortgage.
Miss S also said that the mortgage adviser  from Barclays told her about consent to let, and 
that it would  suit her temporary circumstances. Consent to let is designed to be short-term. If 
a property is to be permanently rented out, then the mortgage needs to be changed to 
become a buy to let mortgage and Miss S cant live there in the future. Miss S explained why 
she wanted to rent out her property  and that it was for a short period of time when she spoke 
to Barclays; I think  it was fair and reasonable to view the change as temporary. I note from 
the evidence available  to me that Miss S was asked questions  about the tenancy and her 
plans to return to the property  before the consent to let was given. She also wasnt given  
formal mortgage  advice; it was her decision  to get the consent to let.
The mortgage offer accepted by Miss S before she got the consent  to let set out clearly  that 
when the product ended  (and the date on which it ended), the mortgage would move onto 
the standard variable rate. The terms and conditions of the consent to let told her that no 
change to the mortgage would be permitted while it was in place. I dont think this is unclear 
or misleading. Miss S accepted the mortgage offer and the terms of the consent  to let after 
being provided with the information in writing.  She agreed to move the mortgage to the 
standard variable  rate, and this cant be changed while  the consent to let is in place.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision before 
10 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3344525