K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that delays by Selectapension Bureau Services  Limited (SBS) in providing 
advice on the transfer of benefits in his occupational  pension  scheme (OPS) caused him 
financial loss, stress  and inconvenience.
SBS is an appointed  representative of CFP Management Limited (CFP).  For convenience  
Ive just referred to CFP. 
background 
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2020. Its 
attached and forms part of this decision.  
CFP didnt make any further comments on my provisional decision.
Mr B did. In his email sent on 7 August 2020  he made a number of points. In summary  he 
maintained the transfers could have been completed  much  earlier,  maybe by March  2017 
and certainly in June  2017 and in line with assurances given.  Hed been misled  and the 
process had been  mismanaged  from December  2016 to July 2017. Redress payments 
should be paid without deduction  for tax and paid into his pension. The letter  dated 19 
November 2017  confirmed the reduced transfer value but still recommended the transfer.  
Mr B wasnt  sure if such advice could be given following  the regulators intervention and the 
restrictions imposed. He attached a number of documents in support of what hed said.   
Mr B later made some  further comments with further  documents  attached. Ive read and 
considered all he said. Very briefly he referred  again restrictions placed  on CFP between  the 
end of July 2017 and the first week of November 2017 and which he thought made the letter 
dated 19 November  2017 invalid. He said he was revisiting this as the handling of his 
transfers had been  shambolic and had resulted in the loss of the transfer values quoted.  He 
attached an article from the financial  press.  He said the service  hed received was abysmal 
and thered been a lack of care. CFP had been paid in full and on time in November 2017 
but hed suffered a financial loss due to a business  that had been investigated and found to 
be not fit for purpose.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B is disappointed with my provisional decision.  And notwithstanding  that I 
did uphold  his complaint. I said both transfers  could have been  completed earlier   the DB 
transfer by 13 June 2017 and the CA transfer  by 6 July 2017.  
I think Mr Bs view is that the transfers  could and should have been completed earlier than 
that. Ive considered carefully all hes said about that and the documents hes referred to in 
support. But I maintain  the timelines I set out in my provisional decision are reasonable.  
I can understand why the regulators intervention reinforces Mr Bs concerns about how the 
transfers were handled. My aim is to put Mr B in the position hed have been in, had the 
transfers been handled in a timely way. So, to that extent,  the regulators intervention is 
Ref: DRN34676552somewhat irrelevant. And I havent allowed for any extra time taken because  of that in 
deciding when the transfers should have been completed.  
I also note what Mr Bs said about  the letter  dated 19 November  2017.  I think  the letter  was 
in fact dated 19 October 2017. Again Im not sure its directly  relevant when it was sent after 
the dates when Ive said the transfers should have been completed  anyway.   
Mr B suggests that by then CFP was no longer in a position to give advice. My 
understanding is that it had agreed  with the regulator that it wouldnt undertake new cases 
and would review  the recommendations it had already made but not completed.  So I dont 
think there was anything which precluded CFP from dealing  with the transfers.  And, in any 
event, Mr Bs complaint  isnt about  the advice to transfer  its about  the time taken to 
complete the transfers and the fact that the transfer  values  may have been lower because  of 
the delays. 
The redress  I set out in my provisional  decision was in two parts.  I said if there  was a loss it 
should be paid into Mr Bs pension plan to increase  its value. But that the amount which  
should be paid could take into account any available tax relief  (as well as any charges). 
Thats so that Mr B isnt overcompensated.  If he was entitled to tax relief  on top of any loss 
paid into his pension  fund then hed be better off than he would otherwise have been. 
I also set out what should  happen if payment into the pension  plan wasnt possible.  And that 
a notional adjustment for any tax could  be made.  Again  thats aimed at ensuring  Mr B isnt 
overcompensated. It wouldnt be fair for him to receive a tax free payment to the extent it is 
compensation for income  hed otherwise have  had to pay income tax on. If Mr B is entitled to 
a further tax free payment that can be factored in in working out how much notional tax hed 
have paid. 
Details as to how redress has been calculated should be provided  to Mr B in a clear  and 
simple format. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint.
 
CFP Management Limited must redress Mr B as set out in my attached  provisional  decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34676553PROVISIONAL DECISION dated  21 July 2020
complaint
Mr B complains that delays by Selectapension Bureau Services  Limited (SBS) in providing 
advice on the transfer of benefits in his occupational  pension  scheme (OPS) caused him 
financial loss, stress  and inconvenience.
SBS is an appointed  representative of CFP Management Limited (CFP).  For convenience  
Ive just referred to CFP. 
background
Mr Bs OPS had several sections  defined benefit  (DB), career average (CA) and defined 
contributions (DC).  Mr B was a member  of all three  sections. The complaint concerns 
transfers out of the DB and CA sections.  
Mr B had been looking into transferring in 2016 with his IFA (independent financial  adviser). 
A transfer  value of £127,109 was issued on 14 October 2016.  The IFA submitted transfer 
documentation to the OPS in November 2016  but the transfer didnt  go ahead as no 
confirmation that Mr B had been given advice was provided. Mr Bs IFA did arrange the 
transfer of Mr Bs DC benefits. 
Mr B was referred to CFP. He completed CFPs client agreement on 24 November 2016. 
This included a letter of authority (LoA) confirming  the plans under review were  the CA and 
DB schemes. Mr Bs circumstances  were noted as currently employed but hed be retiring  at 
the end of the year. On 5 December 2016 CFP told Mr B it had received his initial  
documents and his case had been  allocated to one of its advisers for review.  On 8 
December 2016  CFP wrote to Mr B saying:
We will issue our report based on the current transfer value and would normally expect to 
issue this within 8 weeks of our having  all the relevant information  from the scheme 
Trustees. If our recommendation is to transfer and you proceed with this, we are totally in the 
hands of the Trustees as to how quickly the funds could be transferred to the new provider  
and the whole process could take about 16 to 26 weeks.
Mr Bs personal pension provider received the DB transfer value of £113,491  on 15 
November 2017  and the CA transfer  value of £73,374 the next day. 
Mr B complained to CFP. It didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B referred it here.
The adjudicator thought  thered been delay on CFPs  part. She initially  said the DB transfer 
should have been completed  by 9 March 2017 and the CA transfer by 7 July 2017. She later 
revised her view, CFP having  made  further representations, to say the DB transfer should 
have completed by 14 April 2017  and the CA transfer by 6 July 2017.
The adjudicator set out in her two views the sequence of events. Both parties have seen  it 
and I dont repeat it here. But Ive referred below to some of the key dates and events. 
CFP didnt agree with what the adjudicator had said. It said, by the time it wrote  to Mr B on 8 
December 2016,  it was already experiencing delays. Its report  took slightly longer than eight 
weeks of having  all the relevant information  from the OPS. Mr B was over the OPS normal  
Ref: DRN34676554retirement age. Any transfer value wasnt guaranteed. On 8 June 2017  CFP was told the 
transfer value  had gone down by about  10%. Mr B was made aware of that. It was his 
decision to proceed  with the lower value which, by the time it was paid, was £113,491.  CFP 
had no control over the transfer value; Mr B was aware there  would be long delays in dealing 
with the review; and that transfer values  could go up or down in the meantime. As he was 
never guaranteed to receive any particular value, CFP didnt agree it could be held 
responsible for any change.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr Bs complaint is specifically about the time taken to transfer his DB and CA benefits. 
Thats all Ive looked at. I havent considered suitability  that is whether Mr B should  have 
been advised to transfer. 
Mr B had already  passed the OPS  retirement age. That meant he had no statutory right to a 
CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) and no guarantee period applied  to any transfer 
value, so it could  change at any time. The transfer value would be recalculated at the date of 
payment  the OPS said that factors change  monthly. And, when CFP was first instructed, 
Mr B was still an active member of the CA section  of the OPS. The OPS confirmed that a 
transfer pack for Mr Bs CA benefits  couldnt be provided until he ceased to be an active 
member, which  wasnt  until 31 December 2016.  
As a general point  I dont agree with CFP that because the transfer values  (over  which  CFP 
had no control) werent guaranteed and Mr B knew that from the outset, CFP cant be 
responsible for any reduction in the transfer  value. Mr B was entitled  to expect CFP to 
exercise reasonable skill and care in dealing  with the matter. That includes progressing the 
transfer in a timely manner. If there was any undue delay on CFPs part wed look, as the 
adjudicator did, at when the transfer should have been completed  but for that delay. Wed 
then ask CFP to pay the difference,  plus interest/any investment loss, if the transfer value at 
the earlier date would  have been higher.  
As Ive said above  the adjudicator set out a full time line for both transfers. Im only going  to 
refer to what I think is relevant. 
Ive considered the DB and the CA transfers  separately. 
the DB transfer
CFP has told us that it received papers  concerning Mr Bs transfer  on 5 December 2016 and 
requested a transfer value from the OPS  on 8 December 2016.  On 21 December  2016  the 
OPS confirmed Mr B had already received a transfer value and attached a copy   the 
transfer value  of £127,109  issued on 14 October 2016. On 30 December CFP chased the 
OPS for more information but, to get things moving,  CFP looked at the details provided with 
the 'old' transfer value.  On 17 January 2017  CFP asked the OPS for more information which 
CFP received on 20 and 23 January 2017. CFP received an email  on 10 February 2017 from 
the OPS confirming that for a transfer to proceed  a further transfer  value would need to be 
calculated. 
Ref: DRN34676555The adjudicator said that CFP had all the information it needed on 23 January 2017.  I agree. 
She said also said the report and recommendation could have been issued a month  or so 
later. I dont agree with that. As Ive set out above,  CFP told Mr B at the outset (8 December 
2016) that it expected to issue  its report, based  on the current  transfer value, within  eight 
weeks of getting  all the relevant information  from the OPS. So I think an eight week  period  
applied from 23 January 2017.  CFPs report and recommendation  were issued on 6 April 
2017. Thats  not too far off the eight week period CFP had pointed to at the outset.
I note that what CFP said on 8 December 2016  refers to the current transfer  value. CFPs 
report and recommendation were  based on an out of date transfer value. But CFP has 
explained why it went ahead on the basis of the old transfer value. And, in any event, the 
OPS did recalculate the transfer value later.  
Mr B confirmed he wanted to go ahead with the transfer on 27 April 2017. CFP started the 
process. It wrote to Mr Bs IFA on 5 May 2017  saying it would confirm  when the transfer had 
completed. It also wrote to the OPS  on the same date confirming it had the relevant advice 
permissions and that Mr B had received  regulated advice. The OPS  received that on 11 May 
2017. Transfer forms were also sent to the receiving provider.   
On 8 June 2017 CFP confirmed  to Mr Bs IFA that the transfer value should be paid the next 
week. Mr Bs IFA queried if the transfer value had changed  Mr B might want  to reconsider 
if it had gone down. CFP confirmed it had reduced about 10%. And on 13 June 2017 the 
OPS told Mr B that the transfer value was currently £116,673. I understand Mr B still wanted 
to proceed, despite the reduction.  
At about the same time, the regulator  intervened.  I understand that CFP met with the 
regulator on 14 June  2017 and agreed  with it the following week  not to take on any more 
cases or provide  any further advice until it had relooked at the recommendations it had 
already made but not completed.  
I think but for the regulators intervention  Mr Bs DB transfer would  have been  completed 
shortly after 13 June  2017. And thats more or less consistent with the timescale CFP set out 
at the beginning  if a transfer was recommended, the whole process could take between  16 
and 26 weeks. 
I dont think its unreasonable to say Mr B should  have  got a transfer  value of £116,673 
instead of the £113,491 actually paid. I dont  think its fair to base redress  on the higher 
£127,109 transfer value  that was indicated in October 2016.   And  I dont agree with the 
adjudicator that the transfer could  have been completed on 14 April 2017.  As Ive said the 
adjudicator only allowed  a four week period between receipt of all the information (23 
January 2017) and preparation of the report whereas Ive said,  in accordance  with what CFP 
told Mr B at the outset,  that it could take up to eight weeks. It actually took a little over that, 
which reinforces my view that the transfer  could have been  completed before the regulators 
intervention. l think 13 June 2017 is reasonable and we know  what  the transfer value  would 
have been on that date,  so no further calculations are required.  
the CA transfer
Here I essentially agree  with what the adjudicator said about the timing.  As Ive said above, 
no transfer pack could  be provided until Mr Bs active membership ceased which was on 31 
December 2016.  CFP knew  Mr B wanted  advice on transferring his CA benefits  the LoA 
Mr B completed on 24 November 2016 said the plans he wanted CFP to review  were his DB 
Ref: DRN34676556and CA benefits.  And CFP knew Mr B intended to retire at the end of the year.  But CFP 
didnt check with Mr B until 5 April 2017 when it emailed him asking if hed retired yet. CFP 
then requested a transfer pack from the OPS.
CFP could have contacted Mr B to check hed retired at the end of 2016. That would have  
meant CFP could have approached the OPS  very promptly  once Mr Bs active scheme  
membership had ceased for information  about  his benefits. CFP might  say that Mr B or his 
IFA could have notified CFP at the end of December 2016  that Mr B had retired  and wanted  
to pursue a possible transfer. And in the end CFP did chase things up. But I dont think thats 
fair. CFP had been instructed in connection  with the transfer of Mr Bs CA benefits. CFP 
knew Mr B was planning to retire  and cease his active membership of the CA section at the 
end of 2016. I think it was up to CFP to check with Mr B earlier than it did that hed left and 
wanted CFP to look into a transfer for him. 
The OPS  emailed CFP on 12 April 2017 with estimated pension benefits. A retirement pack 
was sent to CFP on 11 May 2017. I dont know why it took a month.  I dont see that CFP is 
response for any delay  by the OPS. But I think CFP is responsible for the initial  delay. That 
meant over three months was lost at the outset.  
CFP had all the information it needed by 11 May 2017. If CFP had got things moving  in early 
January then CFP would  have  had all the information it needed by, say, 11 February 2017. 
Thats on the assumption it would still have taken  the OPS  a month to produce the 
information (which was actually the case). Taking into account  the eight weeks  to produce a 
report and recommendations that would mean the report would have been available by, say, 
early to mid April 2017. Thats consistent with what the adjudicator  said  that the report and 
recommendation could have been produced on 6 April 2017. 
I also agree  with what she said about the timeline that would have applied in that scenario. 
CFP received Mr Bs completed application on 25 August 2017 having  produced  the 
recommendation report on 11 August 2017. CFP sent that to the receiving scheme on 4 
September 2017. If the report had been produced on 6 April 2017 it isnt unreasonable to 
suggest CFP wouldve  received Mr Bs completed  application by 20 April 2017  and the 
relevant forms sent to the receiving scheme  by 24 April 2017. The ceding  scheme  said it 
received the transfer forms on 8 September 2017. And the CA transfer  value was paid on 16 
November 2017.  Taking  70 days in total. If CFP had sent the forms to the receiving scheme 
on 24 April 2017, its reasonable to suggest the ceding scheme couldve received the 
transfer forms by 28 April 2017 and the CA transfer  paid by 6 July 2017.
redress
I agree  in principle  with the redress suggested  by the adjudicator.  Although, as Ive 
explained above, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude the transfer of Mr Bs DB 
benefits would have gone ahead on 13 June 2017 and a transfer value of £116,673 paid. 
The transfer of the CA benefits should have been  made by 6 July 2017. CFP will need to ask 
the OPS to calculate what Mr Bs CA transfer value would have been on that date. 
If the amounts which were  actually paid were higher than the transfer values which wouldve 
been paid on the revised dates, theres  no financial  loss. If the transfer values would have 
been more then theres a loss and Mr B needs to be compensated for that loss. We know 
Ref: DRN34676557theres definitely a loss in respect of the DB transfer  the amount paid was £113,491 
instead of the £116,673 that would have been  paid on the earlier date.
If there is a loss CFP should  pay it into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the pension  
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CFP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension  plan it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore  the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated  using 
Mr Bs actual  or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement  age. For example, if 
he is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would 
equal the current basic rate of tax. 
Mr B has told us that hes more recently  taken his 25% tax free cash  (TFC) from his SIPP.  
And the rest has remained invested.
CFP should roll the total loss forward in line with the investments within  Mr Bs SIPP. Interest  
at 8% should then be added  on 25% of this total amount from the date Mr B took his 25% 
TFC up until date of payment. The remaining 75% of the total loss amount  including the total 
amount rolled  forward,should continue to be rolled  forward in line with the investments within 
his SIPP  up until the date of payment.
CFP should also pay Mr B £250  for the trouble and upset CFPs delays caused. 
my provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. 
CFP Management Limited must redress Mr B as Ive set out above. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3467655