K820x#14complaint
Miss L says that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
In 1997 Miss L took out a Halifax mortgage  along  with PPI to protect  her mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Miss L disagrees. She 
mainly says she had no idea what PPI was at the time of the sale and it wasnt ever 
mentioned, documented or discussed with her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. But 
that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened.  Miss L told us she was sold the 
PPI during a meeting so I think its likely thats  what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Miss L has told us about the way she says Halifax sold her 
the PPI. But what  Miss L says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  her 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss L to recall  exactly  what was discussed at 
the time.  I have to look at everything  and decide,  on balance, what I think is most  likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Miss Ls home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments  werent kept up to date. She 
alone was responsible for making the mortgage monthly repayments. So, I can see why 
Miss L mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely understand why she mightve  
forgotten some of the details  from the sale. On balance, I think  its likely that Miss L decided  
she wanted to have the benefits and security  that PPI offered and she chose to buy the 
policy. 
As Miss L says she took out the policy during a meeting, Halifax  looked at her complaint on 
the basis that it wouldve advised  her to take out PPI. Given  the lack of paperwork showing 
how Halifax sold Miss L the PPI, I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it 
imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, 
it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Miss L was eligible  for the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in 
the event of an accident or illness that prevented  Miss L from working. The policy wouldve 
also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Miss L lost her job and became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Ref: DRN37407462And Miss L couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving her long term protection for 
her mortgage.
Miss Ls employer didnt pay her any sick pay and it doesnt appear that she had any 
significant other means to rely on if she wasnt  working.  Relying on other people to help out 
in the event of money problems isnt as dependable  as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. So I think the policy  couldve provided  Miss L with 
a useful benefit at a difficult time. And, looking at Miss Ls circumstances, I think  the PPI was 
suitable. 
Its possible  some information Halifax gave Miss L about the policy  wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the things the policy 
didnt cover. So, I dont  think  having  more information about  the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Miss Ls decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Miss L when she bought the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, Miss L chose to take out PPI so she appears to have been  happy to pay for 
the cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that she couldnt afford the monthly  premiums  at the 
time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  her, I think it unlikely Miss L wouldve made 
a different decision about taking out the policy if better information  had been  provided. On 
balance, I think shed  still have taken it out. 
So I dont  find that Miss L has lost out as a result of anything Halifax  may have done wrong. 
This means  it doesnt need to do anything  to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3740746