K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained he was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from January 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint. I invited BoS and Mr M to send in any further comments  or evidence they wanted 
me to consider by 15 February 2019,  before I reached a final decision. Neither BoS nor Mr M 
sent in a response.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither BoS nor Mr M provided further 
evidence or arguments  for consideration, Ive no reason to change  the conclusions  set out in 
my provisional decision. So I dont uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36347752COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complained he was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy by Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Mr M took out the PPI in September 2001 when he applied for a credit card.  BoS said the sale took 
place during  a meeting  and that Mr M was advised to take the cover. Mr M said he couldnt  remember 
whether advice was given. He complained that he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI, and 
that it wasnt suitable  for him. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mr M had successfully claimed on the policy for accident,  
sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid out 10% of the balance outstanding  when he 
stopped work.  This wouldve  carried on for up to 12 months per claim for accident and sickness, or 10 
months for unemployment. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence  to say that BoS mis-sold  the policy, and 
therefore didnt uphold the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Im not proposing to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy  of Mr Ms credit  card agreement. The document shows a cross in a box to say that 
Mr M wanted PPI (and a cross in a second box relating to another  insurance product, which  is not the 
subject of this complaint).  The cross was pre-printed   but so was all of the information  on the 
agreement, including Mr Ms income  and employment details.  So I think its most  likely that the 
document was printed  out after a discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed  part of that 
discussion. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr M was given a choice about  whether  to 
take the PPI and that he agreed  to it. I think he probably just doesnt remember doing  so after all this 
time. 
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mr M to take out the policy, so it had to make sure that the PPI was 
suitable for Mr M. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained  the PPI, or the things not 
covered by the policy. But I cant see that Mr M wouldve  been affected by any of these. 
Mr M said he wouldve been  entitled  to sick pay of six months  full pay and six months half pay from 
his employer, and he had savings worth up to six months pay  so he didnt need the PPI. However  
Mr M didnt provide any details of his savings. 
BoS sent in details of Mr Ms credit card and PPI as part of a list of accounts  he has held over time  
none of these  was a savings  account. I accept that Mr M could have had savings elsewhere  but on 
the credit card agreement theres a section headed financial details, showing  information  about Mr 
Ms accounts  with BoS and other  organisations. This section  only refers to Mr M having  current  and 
loan accounts  and I would have expected to see a reference  to savings  given what  Mr M told us. If 
Mr M can provide  some evidence  to confirm his savings in 2001 I will look at this again  but at this 
point, based on the contemporaneous evidence from the point of sale, I think Mr M may have 
Ref: DRN36347753misremembered how much he had available  at the time of the sale (which would not be surprising 
given that he took out the credit card and PPI so long ago).  
Taking all this into account I think Mr M couldve  found it difficult to meet  the monthly payments on the 
card once his sick pay reduced or if he lost his job  and Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid 
out for up to 12 months per claim  (or 10 months for unemployment). So on balance I dont think there 
was anything wrong  with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve  given Mr M. As Ive said,  I cant  know how the 
adviser explained  the policy, or when  Mr M mightve  been  given a policy  summary or full policy  
document. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits  may not have been as clear  as 
it shouldve been. 
However, from the evidence I have, I dont think more detailed information about the cost and benefits  
wouldve changed Mr Ms decision to take the policy. It couldve provided useful protection  if hed 
been unable to work.  
This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mr M paid 
for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr M back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs 
to do anything  more.  
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr M when Ive issued a final decision on this 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not proposing  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3634775