K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account  (PBA).  
Mr and Mrs K paid a monthly  fee for the account and received several potential benefits  in 
return. They think that HSBC should refund  them  all the fees they paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. The adjudicator 
didnt think that HSBC had mis-sold the PBA to them and didnt recommend that it should  
give them  any money back. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree with adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review 
their case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs K and HSBC have told us or sent us about the 
case and Ive decided  not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
When Mr and Mrs K brought  their complaint to us, they said that HSBC  had sold them the 
PBA in 1998  and that they had not previously had a fee-free account. They told us that 
HSBC never  gave them the option  to open a fee-free account,  that it didnt tell them  about 
any of the potential benefits  the PBA could provide and that they never used  these benefits.  
Mr and Mrs K have  also told us that HSBC  sold them account during a meeting  at their 
home. 
During our investigation, HSBC sent us copies  of some of its records from Mr and Mrs Ks 
account. These seem to show that until 2007  Mr and Mrs K held a fee-free account and then 
changed it to the PBA.  These events took place over a decade  ago and although I accept 
that Mr and Mrs K have given us their best recollections of what  they remember  happening, 
Im satisfied from HSBCs  records  that before Mr and Mrs K took the PBA they held a fee-
free account.
I havent seen  anything to show me that HSBC  mis-led Mr and Mrs K into thinking that they 
had to end their fee-free  account in 2007, or had to change it to the PBA. So I dont think  that 
HSBC failed to give Mr and Mrs K an option to have a fee-free account. It seems more  likely 
to me that in 2007 it offered them the chance  to switch to the PBA for a monthly fee and they 
decided to do so. 
As Im satisfied that HSBC didnt mis-lead Mr and Mrs K into thinking  that they had to take 
the PBA, I think its also likely they it told them about  at least  some  of the benefits of the 
account. After all, it was trying to sell the PBA to them  and it would have helped its case  to 
tell them  what they could get in return for the fee.
Ref: DRN36224952At the time in question, the potential  benefits  of the PBA included  banking features such  as 
lower interest rates on overdrafts and higher interest  rates  on savings than HSBCs  fee-free 
accounts; plus some non-banking features  such as travel  insurance  and discounts on car 
rental charges. 
From the records of Mr and Mrs Ks account, I can see that after they took the PBA they had 
some significant savings and that they also used the accounts overdraft from time-to-time.  
So I think that back in 2007, Mr and Mrs K may well have found  the banking  benefits of the 
PBA to be attractive. I accept that they may not have used or wanted any of the other 
potential benefits  of the account; but this doesnt  mean that HSBC mis-sold the PBA to them. 
At that time,  the benefits of most packaged  bank accounts came as bundles  which  couldnt 
be tailored for individual customers, but they could still be useful to customers  who didnt 
need, want or use everything  in the bundle.  
I also accept Mr and Mrs Ks recollection that HSBC sold the PBA to them during a meeting. 
It would have been very unusual for HSBC  to have held this meeting at Mr and Mrs Ks 
home, rather than at one of its branches or in some other commercial  premises which were 
open to the public, but in this particular case what happened during the meeting was more  
important than where it took place. So I am not too concerned about the precise location of 
the meeting.
HSBC has told us that it sold the PBA to Mr and Mrs K on an information only basis.  And I 
understand that this was its usual practice at that time. This would have meant that it had to 
describe the account fairly and give Mr and Mrs K a choice, but it wouldnt have needed to 
check if the account met their needs.  However, Mr and Mrs K have said that HSBC  
recommended the account to them, in which case it would also have had to make  sure the 
account was appropriate for their financial situation. 
There are no records  from Mr and Mrs Ks meeting  with HSBC, so I cant  tell for sure if it did 
recommend the account. However, given  the potential value of the banking benefits to Mr 
and Mrs K, I think  it would  have been reasonable for HSBC  to recommend the account to 
them. 
In recent  correspondence, Mr and Mrs K have told us that HSBC  said they had to buy the 
PBA in order  to obtain a loan. However, I have not seen  anything to show me that they took 
a loan with HSBC at the time in question,  so I dont think HSBC could have mis-sold the 
account on these  grounds.
In summary,  from the evidence I have seen, I dont think that HSBC mis-led Mr and Mrs K 
into thinking that they had to take the PBA or failed to give them a choice to have a fee-free 
account. I think HSBC  probably  told Mr and Mrs K about the potential  benefits they could  get 
in return for their monthly  fee; and if it recommended  the account to them,  I think  it did so 
reasonably. So I dont think that HSBC  mis-sold  the PBA to Mr and Mrs K. 
Ref: DRN36224953 my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about  
HSBC UK Bank Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3622495