K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about his mortgage account with Mortgage  Express (ME). The 
mortgage is in the joint names  of Mr B and his former partner (who I will call Ms D). In 
particular he says:
In 2003 the mortgage  was changed from interest-only to repayment  with a document 
signed only by him. He says that, as this was a change to the mortgage, it is incorrect 
for Ms D to remain on the account  and he wants her removed from it;
ME sent the title deeds to Ms D instead  of to him.
background 
Mr B had a joint mortgage with Ms D. They had separated some years  ago and Mr B says 
Ms D hadnt  made any contribution to the mortgage  in many years. In December 2018 when 
the mortgage account was paid off Mr B received  a letter from ME which  led him to believe 
that the title deeds would be sent to him. Instead they were sent to Ms D. Mr B complained  
to ME about this.
ME explained that, as Miss D was first named on the mortgage account,  the deeds  had been 
sent to her. ME acknowledged that the letter of 31 December 2018 was misleading  and 
caused Mr B to believe the deeds  would be sent to him. But ME didnt offer any 
compensation.
Mr B also complained that Ms D was still on the mortgage account.
Mr B brought his complaint to us, where it was considered by an adjudicator. ME didnt  
agree to us looking at the complaint about  converting the mortgage  account in 2003 or that 
Ms D still remained  on the account.  Thats because ME had issued a final response letter in 
2009. 
The adjudicator agreed that Mr B was out of time on the complaint about converting the 
mortgage and about Ms B remaining on the account. But she asked ME to pay £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to Me B as a result  of its misleading letter. 
ME agreed to do so. Mr B didnt accept this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 27 June 2019 I issued a decision explaining  why we couldnt look at the complaint about 
the conversion of the mortgage  account  in 2003 and Ms D still being on the mortgage  
account. Thats because  it had been  brought to us more than six months  after the final 
response letter and there  were no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. I wont  be 
commenting further on this part of the complaint, as I have no legal power to consider it. 
In my decision of 27 June 2019 I said that I was satisfied we could consider the complaint 
about the deeds having been sent to Ms D. Because the investigator had already issued her 
findings on that part of the complaint, all that remained was for Mr B and ME to decide if  
Ref: DRN37484802they agreed with her findings. Mr B did not, so it falls to me to make a decision on this part of 
the complaint.
Ive read the letter dated 31 December 2018  and I agree that it was misleading.  Im glad to 
see that ME has also acknowledged this. In common with industry practice, the first named 
borrower on the account is considered  the primary. Because  Ms D was the first named 
borrower, the deeds were sent to her. I appreciate  this caused Mr B some inconvenience. I 
would add that the paper deeds no longer have any value, as the Land Registry holds title 
deeds electronically. But I can understand that this caused Mr B some inconvenience and 
upset.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that a payment of £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
In closing, I would add that it might  assist Mr B to take some  legal advice  about  the property, 
if it is still in joint names  with Ms D. The Law Society  will be able to direct him to a solicitor  
convenient to him for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that, in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Mortgage Express  must  pay 
Mr B £150  compensation for trouble  and upset caused by its misleading letter.  I make  no 
other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3748480