K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI). Ms M says         
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
Ms M took out two Lloyds  credit  cards at the same time, a VISA credit card,  and a 
Mastercard, PPI was sold with both cards.
background
Ms M applied for the credit cards  in 1994. From what Ive seen it is most likely Ms M applied 
for the cards and was sold the PPI at a branch. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. Ms M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where there is limited information, I will make  my decision based on whats  more likely to 
have happened, taking  into account the evidence  available,  what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold because:
Lloyds has been  able to show us a copy of the application form completed in 1994 and 
signed by Ms M. I can see it gave the option to accept or decline the PPI by ticking  a box to 
accept PPI or ticking a separate box to decline it. I can see the box to accept PPI has been 
marked with a tick while the box to decline PPI has been left blank. And the PPI remained on 
the account for some time. During  this time the premiums wouldve appeared on Ms Ms 
monthly statements  as purchases.  So, if Ms M hadnt wanted the PPI or hadnt chosen to 
add it her account, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early  stage. But I havent seen 
any evidence that she did.
I realise Ms M has said she felt under  pressure  to take the PPI. But pressure is quite 
subjective and what one person perceives as pressure another may not. In this case I think 
its likely  the Lloyds representative advised Ms M to take the PPI, but that is not the same as 
saying she had to.
So, weighing everything up, I think Lloyds most likely made  it clear  that Ms M didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
Lloyds has said that its representative shouldve recommended  the PPI to Ms M. In that case 
Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for her and based on what Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this for the following reasons:
Ms M appears  to have been  eligible for the policies,  so shed have been  able to make a 
claim if she needed to.
Ref: DRN34396512The policies did contain some exclusions on the PPI cover, but Ms M doesnt seem  to have 
been affected by these.  For example,  shes told us she had no existing medical conditions 
that wouldnt be covered.
Ms M has told us hed receive  some sick pay from her employer. But the PPI couldve paid a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Ms M couldnt work. And the benefit would be paid in 
addition to any sick pay. So, I still think Ms M would find the policy  useful if she became 
unwell, particularly if she was unable to work for a prolonged period.
The policy would also pay a monthly benefit  if Ms M had lost her job. Meaning Ms M could 
use any redundancy pay on other living  costs.
Ms M may have  had some savings in 1994.  The monthly benefit would mean she didnt have 
to use her savings to meet her monthly credit card repayments at what would likely be a 
difficult time for her financially.  And while Ms Ms husband would have wanted to help her, 
this type of help is not guaranteed. And Ms Ms husband may not have been  in a position  to 
help her when  Ms M needed it most.    
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it wouldve been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So, I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the policy. 
Ms M has told us her that she took out the credit  cards at the same time as her husband and 
his complaint about the sale of PPI has been  fully upheld by Lloyds, so Ms M cannot  
understand why her complaint has not been  upheld.  We look at each  complaint  on its own 
individual merits, and I dont know why Lloyds felt Ms Ms husbands complaint should be 
upheld. There are many reasons why it may have upheld  that complaint but not Ms Ms. For 
example, it could be some reason to do with his employment or other circumstances, or it 
could simply be that Lloyds didnt have a copy of the credit agreement. But in any event, Ive 
looked at Ms Ms complaint and Ive not found  any reason to uphold it.
In summary  I think its most likely  Ms M chose to take out the PPI knowing she had a choice. 
And I think the cover was right for her. And even if Lloyds had given Ms M all the clear  
information it should have, I still think shed have  gone ahead and bought it.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because:  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has said that if a business  got a high level of 
commission and profit share from the PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and 
it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair relationship between the parties. 
So, to put that right,  the FCA said that businesses should pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  But that only 
applies if the credit card was still open after April 2008. In Ms Ms case the Mastercard was 
closed in 2004, but the VISA card continued  to be open after 2008.  So, for the VISA card 
only: 
Ref: DRN34396513Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it shouldve told Ms M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium sold with the VISA card - and I think  thats fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policies were  not mis-sold  so Lloyds  Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms M.
But for the VISA card only Lloyds  Bank  PLC does  have  to pay back  to Ms M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done  
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 27 December 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3439651