K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (British Gas) have failed to properly 
fulfil their obligations under her Home Care policy.
background
Mrs A holds a Home Care  policy  with British Gas that provides servicing and breakdown  
cover for her boiler. She arranged for her boiler to be serviced  in February 2019 and 
expected an updated safety  certificate  to be issued. However, Mrs A was unhappy to learn 
that the British  Gas engineer was unable to issue a safety certificate  because  he deemed 
the boiler to be unsafe and shut it down without repairing it. This left the property without 
heating or hot water.
The engineer arranged for a visit around  three weeks later to provide quotes  for a new 
boiler. But Mrs A eventually replaced  the boiler through a local plumber  the day after the 
British Gas engineer  had visited. 
Mrs A complained because British  Gas were unable to rectify a fault on an 11 year old boiler 
for which parts were readily  available.  She says the engineer ought to have persevered with 
the boiler until they could determine which part was causing the problem. And given that it 
was not ultimately  rendered serviceable  and safe, Mrs A says they have failed to carry out 
their obligations  under the contract. She is also unhappy because they didnt offer her the 
chance to have a second opinion on whether the boiler was unsafe, which is now not 
possible given that it has since  been replaced. 
British Gas said their engineer had done  everything  he could to rectify  the issue with the 
boiler that was making it unsafe, but that it wasnt  possible. This meant he had no other 
choice than to deem  the boiler  at risk and switch it off. As a result,  British  Gas did not 
consider they were  at fault.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs As complaint. He didnt consider there was any evidence 
to suggest that the work carried out by the engineer  was inadequate or that the decision to 
deem it unsafe was incorrect. Mrs A disagreed, so the matter  has been passed  to me to 
determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
British Gas say their engineer did everything he could to ensure that the emission levels  
reached a safe level, but that it was not possible,  which was why it was deemed  at risk and 
had to be switched  off. Ive considered the work  summary produced by the engineer,  and I 
can see he has noted that the boiler  was in a poor  condition and was still giving a reading  
over the permitted levels despite having a full clean.  And it also appears that the engineer  
was able to reduce the emission levels from 0.0057  initially to 0.0047. So its clear  the 
engineer attempted to bring the emission  levels within the permitted parameters, but was 
ultimately unable  to. 
Ref: DRN36150002Mrs A says that the engineer  ought  to have persevered with the boiler until they could 
determine which part was causing the problem. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that the boiler was in fact capable of being  repaired,  or could have actually  been  rendered 
safe by replacing  certain parts. And given  that the boiler has now been  replaced, it now isnt 
possible for this to be determined. So based  on the evidence available  which is the opinion  
of a qualified engineer  that the boiler was unsafe  and needed replacing  Im not persuaded 
that British Gas have  done anything wrong  that has caused Mrs A any financial loss or 
emotional harm, or that it can be said that they have failed in their obligations under the 
policy. So I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to direct them to compensate 
Mrs A in such  circumstances.  
I appreciate that a second opinion would have  been  advantageous in the determination of 
whether the boiler could have potentially  been repaired. But British gas had already sent a 
qualified engineer to the property, and they are not obliged to continue  sending engineers to 
verify the work completed by those that have  attended previously. So I dont  think theyve 
acted unfairly by failing  to suggest that a second opinion should  be sought by Mrs A before  
she replaced the boiler  which was always an option she could have pursued independently 
if she had any doubts. 
So, in summary,  I do not think there is enough  evidence to suggest that British Gas are at 
fault in these circumstances. So I will not be asking them to compensate Mrs A.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3615000