K820x#14complaint
Ms T says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms T bought the policy in 2010 sometime after taking out a mortgage in 2005. She applied 
for the PPI over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms T for accident and sickness   subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £655.00  a month towards Ms Ts mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £27.49 a month. 
At the time,  Ms T was employed  as a scientific officer working in research. She has told us 
she was entitled  to between three and six months employee sick and had some  savings.  
She would also have received redundancy and death in service benefit. Ms T has said she 
had suffered from ongoing  depression  and anxiety since 2000 and had taken a total of a few 
days away from work. She also suffered from a bad back in 2006 which  again  she said was 
still ongoing. She had taken a week off from work in 2006 because  of her back. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2005 and 
Ms T took out a further advance in 2011 which  is still running. 
Ms Ts representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ts representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ts representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Ms T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms T and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN37782782The information Ms T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So, the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  its appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN37782783General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Ms Ts complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Ms T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Ms T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN37782784-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms T and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms T know  she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Both Santander and Ms T agree the PPI policy was sold to her over the phone. While 
Santander hasnt  been able to give us a copy of the call recording it has been able to give us 
a copy of its phone script  that it says its representative would have  followed  during the call. I 
dont see any reason for me to conclude that this script or similar  wasnt  followed by the 
representative.
Under a section entitled Customer Needs  there  is a sub-section entitled Optional, Separate 
& Customer Suitability where  it says Paymentcare [the PPI] is optional insurance and is 
separate to your mortgage [original  emphasis  and which meant  it must  be read exactly as 
per the script ] and the representative would need to tick a box next to this section  to confirm 
it had been read to the customer.  
And Ms T had had her mortgage  with Santander since 2005  so she would have been  aware  
the policy was not part of her mortgage package. Shed already had her mortgage for five 
years before she agreed to take the policy, so she knew she didnt need  to have it in order  to 
have her mortgage. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Ms T knew the policy  was optional  and 
she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Ms T hasnt  commented  on this. As 
the script  Ive been given is entitled  .Non-Advised Paymentcare and Ms T hasnt given 
me any contrary information for me to consider,  Im satisfied that Santander  did not give 
advice when it sold the policy to Ms T.
This means  Santander  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms T. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms T to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Because of the detail given in the script Im satisfied its more  likely than not Ms T was given 
a broad description of what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would 
protect her payments if Ms T was unable to work through  accident  or sickness) and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Ms T would  have 
Ref: DRN37782785taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Ms T agreed to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think Santander  gave Ms T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms T about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ts representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms T has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Ms T? To what extent did Ms T 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms T. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Ms T suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms T would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Santander  done things  properly.  
Ms T says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN37782786As this was a non-advised sale, Ms T had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of Ms T being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms T chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Ms T thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms T has suffered any loss or detriment.  
The information given  in the call script suggests  Ms T was given about  the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Ms T would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Ms Ts expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms T thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions, injury, illness,  disease, 
sickness or related  condition whether  diagnosed or not which Ms T should have 
known about at the start date of the policy or which  she had seen or arranged  to see 
a doctor  about  during the 12 months  before the start date and which returned during 
the first 12 months of the policy; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms T be unable  to 
do her normal work as confirmed by a doctor  or specialist and not doing any other  
work which Ms T have  reasonably  become qualified for in view of her training, 
education and ability.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms T pause  for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms T from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms T has told us about  her 
anxiety/depression from 2000 and her back in 2006 and while she told us these were 
ongoing she hasnt  told us of any significant time off from work  a few days  in total for the 
anxiety/depression and one week in 2006  for her bad back. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
Ref: DRN37782787would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms T had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her normal  
job and any other  work which in the insurers  view she might  reasonably  become qualified  
for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given her pause for thought   although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Ms T was unable (through disability) to carry on her normal  
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up what I deem to be a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Ms T that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Ms T would have received full sick pay for.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms T would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms T be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Ms Ts sick pay for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms T would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Ms T was unable  to work  through the accident  or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms T would have taken out the policy  in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Ms Ts representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms T wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms T 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN37782788Ms T believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms T in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Santander should pay Ms T compensation, as that would put her in a better  
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms T thinks Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Ms T, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2010 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ts representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Ms T and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms T in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3778278