K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining about how two of his accounts  were closed as dormant by Barclays  
Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He feels he wasnt given enough notice and has lost out on 
interest. He also says that it took Barclays too long to release the funds to him. 
background
Mr S held several accounts  with Barclays. He was written to in January 2017,  telling him that 
due to inactivity on two savings accounts, they were due to be closed as dormant. As Mr S 
did not respond to this letter and there  was no further account activity  by the date given,  the 
accounts were closed in April 2017.  
A dormancy  claim was first logged in May 2018.  On the same day Barclays  say they wrote to 
Mr S requesting identification and verification documents  to proceed. It appears  that nothing  
more was done in regard  to the claim until August, and then Barclays requested the 
documentation again at the beginning of September. Then later that month, Mr S visited a 
branch in an attempt to release funds  from the account. 
Barclays say that they didnt  receive the necessary  documentation to settle the claim until 
the end of September. Then Mr S received the funds  from his dormant accounts a few days  
later. This amount  was paid with interest at a rate of 0.25% for the amount of time the funds 
were dormant. 
Mr S complained that the amount of time this took resulted in him losing out on a house 
purchase and that he was given incorrect information about  when the funds would be paid.  
Barclays acknowledged that funds could have  been  released sooner and paid Mr S £250  for 
the inconvenience. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. He said that he had not received the notice in January 
2017. He also remained unhappy with the amount of time it took Barclays to release his 
funds, he feels that he has not been  properly compensated  for this and that he has lost out 
on interest whilst  the accounts  were  dormant. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She felt that Barclays had acted fairly  and in line with the accounts terms and conditions  by 
closing them as dormant.  She also felt that Barclays had compensated Mr S fairly for any 
delays by paying him £250. Mr S didnt  agree  and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  at whether Barclays acted fairly in closing the accounts as dormant. This 
occurs with personal savings accounts if there  has been no activity across  any of the 
customer accounts for at least 60 months. I have reviewed all account history for Mr S and I 
can see that there was no customer activity  for over 60 months. 
I have also been  provided with two letters that Barclays  sent Mr S in January 2017.  These  
gave three  months  notice  that each of his two savings accounts was due to fall dormant due 
to inactivity. I am satisfied that Barclays acted fairly  in closing the accounts  and gave Mr S 
sufficient notice that this was going  to happen.  
Ref: DRN36188152Mr S has complained that when the funds  were released to him, he had missed out on 
accruing interest  on the amounts. However, Barclays have provided a calculation to show 
that when the dormant  claim was finally settled, interest was added to this amount. Barclays 
have also shown that this amount is no less than the interest these funds  would have 
accrued if they had not gone  dormant. 
Barclays have acknowledged  that they could have settled the dormancy  claim and released  
funds to Mr S sooner. He says this was not done  by the date Barclays told him it would be 
completed by. Barclays also acknowledge that they are required to advise a customer of the 
outcome of their claim within a maximum of 12 weeks and that they aim to let them know 
within 4 weeks. This claim began in May 2018 and was not settled until the end of 
September 2018. 
However, Barclays say that the majority of this delay was because  they were  waiting on 
identification and verification documents  that they had requested.  I agree that Barclays  could 
have done more to settle this claim sooner. However, I do not conclude that this caused      
Mr S to lose out on a potential house purchase as he could have returned the identification 
and verification documents that were sent in May sooner. 
Barclays have paid Mr S £250  because they acknowledge that they could have settled this 
dormancy claim  sooner. In the circumstances, considering the time it took for Barclays to 
receive the necessary documentation to release  the funds, I think this is reasonable.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid Mr S £250  in respect  of the complaint  and I think 
this amount is fair in all the circumstances. My decision  is that the bank does not need to 
take any further action to settle Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618815