K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas)  has handled her claim for 
flooding to her house, under her buildings  insurance  policy.
When I refer to Ageas Insurance Limited  Im also referring to any of its appointed 
representatives.
background
Mrs Hs house had an escape of water in early August 2018. This was caused by a leak from 
under her bath, causing damage to the rooms below. 
Ageas appointed an expert the following day to assess  the damage  and the claim was 
prioritised due to Mrs Hs health concerns. Alternative accommodation was offered and, 
although initially declined  by Mrs H, was accepted  a week  later.  Mrs H was put into a nearby 
hotel. There were a couple  of initial  problems  regarding  evening meal allowance  and 
parking, but they were sorted out quickly by Ageas.
The damage was considerable and drying of the house was required  before any repairs 
could be started. As the house was uninhabitable  Mrs H remained in alternative 
accommodation. 
In November 2018 further water  damage was discovered to the concrete floor screed and 
this was stopping  the house drying properly. The contractors had experienced some difficulty  
in getting access  to Mrs Hs house  and the dehumidifiers had overflowed.  Mrs H remained in 
alternative accommodation but at a different hotel. 
After the property was dry the scope  of works was approved in January 2019 and Ageas 
tried to speak to Mrs H to arrange for repairs to start to make the house to habitable again.  
Despite numerous  attempts Ageas couldnt  get through to Mrs H. When  contact was made 
Ageas explained that Mrs H needed to allow access to the house so the work could be done.  
It also informed Mrs H that, if she was unwilling to allow the repairs to be carried out, Ageas 
would cash settle  her claim and Mrs H would be responsible for overseeing the repairs 
herself. 
A further  appointment was made so that Mrs H, a surveyor and Ageas  expert  could attend 
the house and discuss the works  required.  This took place  at the end of January 2019.     
Mrs H was told her alternative accommodation would stop in two weeks  as the house would 
be habitable by then. 
Following that meeting  Ageas tried several times to contact Mrs H and arrange for the 
repairs to be carried out. The works  didnt go ahead  and Ageas decided  to cash  settle the 
claim in its entirety. The alternative accommodation  wasnt going to be extended and 
stopped mid-February  2019.
Mrs H was unhappy with Ageas  handling of the claim and brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt think Ageas had done anything  wrong.  He said that it was fair 
for Ageas to cash  settle the claim,  as Mrs H hadnt co-operated to allow the claim to 
progress and the repairs to be done. He also explained that it was reasonable of Ageas to 
stop paying for Mrs Hs alternative accommodation due to Mrs Hs lack of co-operation.  
Ref: DRN38129382Mrs H didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said that she had co-operated with Ageas 
and had waited  for surveyors  that hadnt  turned up throughout the claim. She felt the 
investigator had taken Ageas side. She also explained that she couldnt attend the house for 
the final appointment as she was in hospital. The cash settlement wasnt acceptable to     
Mrs H as she wouldnt be able to get the work completed.  She wanted Ageas to arrange for 
the house to be put back  into its pre-damage condition.  
As Mrs H didnt  accept, its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Ageas 
to do anything more.  Ill explain  why.
Mrs H has sent in a lot of correspondence regarding this complaint.  Id like to assure her that 
Ive read it all, but I wont be commenting  on everything that shes  mentioned. Ill be 
concentrating on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy with Ageas tells her the different options it can take when handling  the claim. 
It says:
if we approve your claim, well ask you to pay the excess. Well then repair or replace your 
damaged, lost or stolen items, or rebuild your property, depending  on the type of claim. 
Alternatively, we may make you a cash offer. Well decide which way of paying your claim is 
most appropriate.
It then goes on to say:
If we decide not to repair, rebuild or replace the buildings  or contents that youre  claiming 
for, well offer to make you a cash payment
So Ageas hasnt done anything wrong by cash settling Mrs Hs claim. What  I need to decide  
is if it was fair and reasonable for it to do that. And in this case  Im satisfied it was. 
Mrs H had an obligation to co-operate with Ageas during the claims handling process  to 
ensure any repairs  or settlement could be dealt  with as quickly  as possible.  And Im not 
satisfied that she has done so throughout  the history of the claim.  Ive reviewed the claim 
notes from Ageas and its experts and there are many occasions when Mrs H denied access  
to her house or hasnt turned up for arranged  appointments. Ageas had previously offered to 
install a key safe at Mrs Hs house  so work  could  be carried out without the need for Mrs H 
to be there,  but Mrs H wasnt prepared to have one fitted. She wanted  to be present for 
every visit. I think the key safe was a reasonable proposal offered by Ageas.
The last missed appointment was scheduled  for mid-February 2019.  This was to install a 
new boiler and reinstate  Mrs Hs hot water to make  the house  habitable.  Mrs H didnt turn up 
for the appointment and the work could not be done. Because of this and the previous 
delays, Ageas made the decision to cash settle the claim. Im satisfied this was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs H has told our service  that shed been taken to hospital the night before the scheduled 
appointment so was unable to attend  to let the contractor in. But, Im aware that Mrs H was 
Ref: DRN38129383contacted at her alternative accommodation  when  the contractor arrived  to carry out the 
work. So Im not persuaded  that she was unable to attend the house to allow the contractor  
access.
The missed  appointments  and delays have meant that the house hasnt been able to be 
returned to a habitable condition. I cant say this is Ageas fault.  
Mrs H has said that she never received calls at the alternative accommodation or the calls 
werent put through to her room. She said that whenever she received calls or messages 
she called  Ageas back immediately. But the alternative accommodation staff has told us that 
there were occasions when Mrs H asked  for calls not to be transferred to her. 
Mrs Hs house was certified as dry in November 2018. If Mrs H had been co-operative with 
Ageas Im satisfied that the work  to the house to make it habitable could have been 
completed before the end of 2018  and Mrs H could have moved back in. The reports Ive 
seen say that numerous attempts had been  made to contact Mrs H to arrange  a convenient 
time for the works to begin. But this wasnt allowed to happen and Mrs H remained in 
alternative accommodation for another two months.  
Mrs Hs policy schedule confirms that shes covered  for alternative  accommodation  up to a 
period of 12 months. And I understand shes unhappy that the alternative accommodation 
has been stopped before 12 months  has passed.  But Mrs Hs policy  also confirms the 
alternative accommodation will only be paid for while  the house is uninhabitable because  of 
the damage caused. In Mrs Hs case, Im persuaded  that the reason the house has 
remained uninhabitable for an extended period  is because of the delays caused by Mrs H. 
And it would not be fair for Ageas  to continue to pay for alternative accommodation for an 
unnecessary amount  of time or for any circumstances that havent been caused  by it. 
During our review, Mrs H told Ageas that our investigator had told her Ageas had to continue 
to pay for alternative accommodation. That conversation didnt take place as Mrs H 
remembers it. She also told the receptionist at her alternative accommodation that our 
investigator had told Mrs H that Ageas would be continuing to pay for the accommodation. 
That wasnt  the case and our investigator had to inform the receptionist of this. There  are 
other instances when  Mrs Hs recollection  of what has been said and done isnt in line with 
the information available to me. So this has made me doubt  some of her testimony  in 
relation to Ageas actions throughout the claim.   
As Mrs Hs house would have been habitable with her co-operation  I think Ageas has acted 
fairly by not continuing to pay for alternative  accommodation after the final missed 
appointment. And it had tried over two months  to arrange for the work to be carried out so 
Im satisfied that its decision to offer a cash  settlement to allow  Mrs H to oversee the work 
herself was a reasonable one.
Mrs H has mentioned that the entire  house has been condemned. I havent seen anything to 
support that argument. The schedule of works agreed by Mrs H and Ageas confirm that the 
boiler, washing machine  and cooker  are beyond  economical repair and will all be replaced.  
Ageas later agreed  to replace the fridge freezer.  I havent  seen anything  to show the 
pipework in the house has been condemned. Its accepted that the pipework doesnt meet 
modern regulations but that isnt proof that it has been condemned. And this would  be 
classed as gradual deterioration  or wear and tear, which isnt covered by Mrs Hs policy.
Ref: DRN38129384As the cash settlement paid by Ageas is in line with the schedule of works I wont be asking 
it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3812938