K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs S was sold the PPI while filling in an instore  leaflet in 2003 at the same time as taking a 
store card. At the time she worked  as a clerical officer and had been employed there for 
three years. From what she has told us, Mrs S was entitled to no more than statutory pay for 
sickness and redundancy and didnt  have any other  means, like savings, with which to pay 
her card if she couldnt work. She has told us of a health condition she had diagnosed as an 
infant but has never  been off work with, and of a health issue she missed three weeks  work  
with more than fifteen years before the sale. She hasnt told us of any other health issues.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it 
offered to pay 15% of Mrs Ss card balance. It cost at the time £1.50 per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium still had to be paid during a successful  claim and 
attracted interest. The life cover,  subject to its terms, would clear  the balance  on death.  
The policy also provided purchase protection and price protection . Mrs S hasnt complained  
about this element of the insurance policy so I will not consider  it further  in this decision. 
 
Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary  her 
representative says:
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs S about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs S and the impact they would 
have had on Mrs Ss chances  of making  a claim; 
The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and
Ref: DRN32047652AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs S wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ss representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding her complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN32047653The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So I am satisfied its right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ss case. 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for Mrs S, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs S sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to Mrs Ss 
Ref: DRN32047654attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent she suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mrs S and AXA, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mrs S has said she had no interest  in 
PPI and says it was just included  with her card as part of the package.  But she signed a 
credit agreement to take the card, and this had a section  for the PPI with a space  to sign if 
the cover  was wanted. Mrs S signed this space, separately from signing for the card, and 
theres nothing above  the space or elsewhere  on the form to say she had to take PPI or had 
to sign the space for it if she didnt want it. Ive seen nothing to make me think  Mrs S was 
pressured into taking  the PPI. Taking  everything  into account, I think  its more likely Mrs S 
knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt give advice during  this sale. Mrs S hasnt said whether advice was given. 
With all this in mind, Im not persuaded  AXA gave  advice. This means AXA didnt have to 
check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs S. Instead,  it had to give her sufficient,  appropriate and 
timely information to enable Mrs S to make  an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has provided us with Mrs Ss credit  agreement  showing PPI had been  selected.  Ive 
also seen policy terms and conditions  which  I accept - on a balance  of probabilities  reflect 
those that applied to policies like Mrs Ss. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs S at the time,  I dont think AXA gave her the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  when  Mrs S filled in an instore leaflet. I dont know what  AXA told Mrs S 
about the PPI, but I think it unlikely she wouldve agreed to take it without at least  a broad  
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. I also think it unlikely Mrs S wouldve thought it was free, and I bear in mind that 
above where she signed for the PPI her credit  agreement says: Please debit my Account 
with the relevant monthly premium and elsewhere it refers  to the cover as having  a cost 
of 1.5p  for every pound on your monthly  balance.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ss attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Ref: DRN32047655I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs S, including the need to maintain premiums  during 
a claim or that payments  would attract  interest.  In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing her attention 
to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions  of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ss. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ss representative considers  to be poor  value. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to Mrs S. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs S has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs S? To what extent did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found AXA did not do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mrs S. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs S suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  
To answer  this, I must decide  whether  or not Mrs S would still have taken the policy,  had 
AXA done  things  properly. She says she would not have taken it and believes  I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs S had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs S chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude 
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what she thought she was getting  isnt exactly  
Ref: DRN32047656what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining 
if she has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs S ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept AXA didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So, while she didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what Mrs S would reasonably have  thought  from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  Possibly the most significant differences  between 
what she thought  she had bought and what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs S knew  or should have known 
about or for which  she had been advised or treated  by a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs S wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs S be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job - and be stopped from doing  any paid work  her experience,  
education or training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs S pause  for thought   and may well have caused Mrs S to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she mightve decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover, 
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  mightve  dissuaded some consumers 
in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking  the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
Mrs S couldnt have claimed  for time off work related to the condition shed had diagnosed in 
infancy or to the other  health issue shes told us shed had. But the lifelong condition  shed  
had hadnt ever kept her off work and, based on what I have and all thats been said during 
this complaint, at the time of the sale it was over fifteen years since  Mrs S had had treatment 
or time off work for the other health issue shes mentioned   and she hasnt said this was an 
ongoing issue. From what  I have, it appears  to have stopped being an issue  for her a great  
many years before the sale.
With all Ive said above in mind, Im not persuaded cover for these health issues wouldve 
been amongst  the priorities in Mrs Ss mind  when deciding whether  or not to take the PPI. 
Also, Ive nothing to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions  she was in permanent employment,  for example. Taking  everything  into 
account, including the cover the policy would provide for other health issues as well as 
unemployment, on balance I think Mrs S still had some good  reasons  to take the cover.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
Ref: DRN32047657limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs S 
from taking the policy,  Mrs S, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs S had known she could only claim for disability  if she were unable  to do her own or 
any similar job and unable  to do any paid work her education, experience  or training  might 
reasonably qualify her to do, it might have played  into her thinking  about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  but given her circumstances  and limited  
other means, on balance  I think Mrs S wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs S wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  she thought  she was 
getting and, apart from statutory benefits, Mrs S didnt have any other means  of paying her 
card if she couldnt work due to disability or redundancy. And, in those circumstances,  I 
consider it more likely  than not Mrs S wouldve taken the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs S wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  Mrs Ss circumstances, as 
detailed above,  into account, I consider it reasonable  to conclude the position Mrs S found 
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. Mrs S believes the presumption  may only be rebutted 
when the flaws in the sales process  were  immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly 
material and we have  failed to give proper weight to the evidence   including her own 
comments that she would not have taken  the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs S in the position she wouldve been  in if she hadnt  
bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mrs S wouldnt  have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still taken the PPI had she been  
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  she was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude AXA should 
pay Mrs S compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she would have 
been in had everything happened as it should  have done. 
Ref: DRN32047658Im also aware Mrs S thinks  AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3204765