K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that CIS General Insurance  Limited  declined his pedal  cycle claim under his 
contents insurance.
background
Mr M has insurance with CIS covering  his contents  which includes a specified  pedal cycle for 
a value of £1500.The cycle is specified as a personal possession  of high value on the 
schedule. Mr M normally  kept his cycle on the balcony of his flat. The cycle was not locked  
to a fixed point.  In September 2018, Mr Ms cycle was stolen from the balcony. He contacted  
CIS who declined  his claim.
CIS relied  on Section 6 clause  13 F contents in the open. The section says:
F. Contents in the open.
The insurance provided by paragraphs 1 to 3 and 5 to 11 of Section 6 also covers loss or 
damage to contents  outside the home but within the boundaries  of the land belonging  to 
your home. The most that the insurer  will pay is £1,000 per claim and £250 per single article,  
pair or set, except pedal cycles where the limit is £350 per pedal  cycle.
Your insurer will not pay for;
 Loss or damage  to pedal cycles unless securely locked to a fixed  point within the 
boundaries of the land belonging to your home;
CIS said that the claim was caught by the exclusion because the cycle was not locked  to a 
fixed point and therefore it would not cover the loss.
Mr M was unhappy with CIS decision so he complained to our service.
He argued that the balcony  is not an open space.  He also said that due to the construction  of 
the balcony he was not able to use the lock on his cycle. Mr M said that the balcony falls 
within the definition  of home  or alternatively that the balcony is an outbuilding and that the 
contents is covered  for loss caused by theft up to £2000  where  theft takes place from a 
garage or an outbuilding. Mr M says that the clauses in the contract are ambiguous and 
should be interpreted  in his favour.  
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She took the view that the cycle was contents  
left in the open and so Mr M would have  to lock the cycle to a fixed  point within the boundary 
as is required under Section 6.13 F. As he had not done so then our investigator  said CIS 
acted reasonably when it declined the claim. She also did not think  that the terms were  
ambiguous.
Mr M was not happy with the investigators view so the matter  has come  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37553942In order to reject the claim CIS have relied on a clause in the policy  relating  to contents left in 
the open. In order to decide this complaint I need to consider whether CIS have applied the 
clause fairly.
Mr M disagrees that by leaving the cycle on his balcony, this fits the definition  of being left 
out in the open. He says a balcony  forms part of the building so should be considered  under 
that part of the policy instead. Mr M says that the balcony is part of the building  because it is 
a permanent fixture of the home. However having looked at the photos  I can see that the 
balcony is outside of the building and is not a fully enclosed space. The insurance  policy  has 
some definitions but it does not have a definition of a balcony.  I have considered  which part 
of the policy  most closely matches a balcony.  As the balcony is not enclosed by walls,  I 
agree that it most closely matches a space out in the open and CIS was right to apply this 
part of the policy.
Mr M also thinks that because the word  balcony is not mentioned  in the policy documents  
the policy is ambiguous and its terms should be interpreted in his favour.  
I think that the policy isnt ambiguous even though balcony is not defined in the policy  and 
the other definitions do not include balcony  in them. I dont think it would be feasible for a 
policy to include all possible definitions. I also think the clause CIS are relying  on is clear. I 
think that most people  who read the policy would  understand what is meant  by in the open 
and that the additional  requirement that pedal  cycles must be locked to a fixed  point  would 
apply.
Mr M considers that his claim should be paid because the balcony  should be either in the 
outbuildings category or in the buildings category.  He says that if its not included in one it 
must be included in the other. 
I have looked  at the definitions carefully  and although I appreciate Mr Ms frustration, I cant  
agree with him that a balcony is an outbuilding. I also dont agree that a balcony  is another 
type of building which does not form part of the main  building of the home. I think  to say that 
a balcony is an outbuilding or another  building is to distort the normal  meanings  of the 
words. An outbuilding  is a separate structure  and a balcony isnt.
Mr M also says that if his cycle had been left in the ground floor flat as the paved  terraces  
are included, it would be covered  by the policy. When  deciding  the case I have to base my 
decision on the facts  of this case and not a situation that could have happened but hasnt.
In summary  I think that the photos show that the balcony is outside of the building and 
therefore I think that the cycle was kept in the open. As the cycle was not securely locked up 
as required under the policy I think  CIS acted reasonably in rejecting the claim. For the 
reasons stated above I also dont think that the policy is ambiguous.
Taking all this into consideration  I think that CIS have reasonably applied the clause 
regarding contents  in the open. I think that CIS have acted reasonably in declining the claim 
For the reasons  above I will not be asking CIS to do anything else.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN37553943I make  no award against CIS General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755394