K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC disclosed  information to a third party  
franchisor which resulted in financial loss.
background
S had a franchise agreement with the third party. In 2017 that third party  tried to terminate 
the franchise agreement  and take over Ss business  lease and assets. The director of S 
says that the business manager  at Lloyds gave the third party  information about  its 
borrowing and security  with Lloyds and told it that the director  had given a personal 
guarantee. S became  involved  in extended  court proceedings and kept the business.  But it 
says that the disclosures  by Lloyds put it in a poor negotiating position  and that there were 
significant costs.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that S was 
successful in the court case.  And Lloyds had said that the third party would have  had access  
to the accounts  of its franchisees. There were court costs but these would  have had to be 
paid anyway. We could  only look here at the impact on S and not the director personally.
S did not agree and wanted  the complaint to be reviewed.  Because of the information known 
to the third party it offered the bare minimum for the assets of S. And it knew that the director 
had given a personal guarantee to Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that in the final response letters from Lloyds it denies any breach of confidentiality. 
It says that the third party would have known of its usual  requirement for a director, like the 
director of S here, to give Lloyds a personal guarantee to support  company borrowing. And 
that the business manager only told the third party that Lloyds did not hold a debenture as 
he thought that the franchise had been taken  back.
Ive seen a copy  of the franchise agreement. This does set out that S and the director  as 
guarantor of the agreement itself were  required to provide full information  about the 
operation of the franchise  including for example bank statements. S is also a limited  
company and has to report  information  about its business and trading. I accept that Lloyds 
policy in taking a personal guarantee for company borrowing would most likely be known 
already to the third party.
S, in any event, did not accept the offer from the third party to buy out the business  and 
wanted to continue operating it. And so court proceedings, during which time there was likely 
to be significant  disclosure,  seemed  to be inevitable. S was successful in court. There were  
significant legal costs and as I understand it the court made no costs  award  to either  party. 
For all these reasons Im not persuaded on what Ive seen that any actions of Lloyds here 
caused loss or disadvantage to S.
Ref: DRN31431402my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3143140