K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Miss M have brought several complaints  against their mortgagee Lloyds Bank 
PLC, which are set out in their letter  to our service dated 10 March 2019. This decision 
concerns one of these,  a complaint about the way Lloyds administered their mortgage 
account.
Mr C and Miss M say that Lloyds made  errors regarding their date of birth and personal 
information on its file which  made  it difficult to correspond  with and contact Lloyds.
background
There are several addresses involved here. To avoid  identifying Mr C and Miss M I will refer 
to these as addresses  1, 2 etc.  
Mr C and Miss M took out their mortgage with Lloyds by way of a Home Loan Application  
dated and signed by them both on 9 August 1988.  Their then address was stated to be 
address 1.
They said in the application that the property to be purchased and mortgaged was address  
2.
Mr C and Miss Ms complaint  form to our service says the complaint is as set out in a letter  
to us dated 10 March 2019. Both that letter and the complaint form give a different address, 
address 3.
In the 10 March letter Mr C and Miss M say that from the beginning,  Lloyds failed  to send 
written communications  to their correct address. They  say they made  and sent repeated  
phone calls and letters to Lloyds  pointing  out that it was using  the wrong address and 
postcode. But they say Lloyds continued to post correspondence to address 4 instead of 
address 3. 
Correspondence became critical when it coincided  with key dates when the mis-selling of 
endowment mortgages  (not dealt with in this decision) was uncovered.  Mr C and Miss M say 
they were left adrift as to the status of their endowment  mortgage  as a result  of Lloyds 
failure to communicate  with them  at the correct  address.
They say that as a result of corruption  of their personal and address data, their mortgage  
was lost on the Lloyds system for some years. This data corruption of their mortgage file 
proved critical when, between September 2013 and November 2018, Lloyds end of term 
mortgage team failed  to pass Mr C through security on 16 occasions as it had wrongly  
recorded his address, postcode, date of birth and other details about  the mortgage.  This 
prevented any discussion  on the status of the mortgage and the creation of a plan to 
address an underperforming endowment policy.
Lloyds addressed these issues (along with other issues not the subject of this decision) in 
letters to Mr C and Miss M dated  18 July 2016,  19 October 2018 and 13 November 2018. All 
these letters were sent to the correct address, namely address 3.
In the letter  of 18 July 2016 Lloyds said:
Ref: DRN36191572After investigating your complaint point regarding  your property address, I can confirm  that 
Lloyds have incorrectly recorded your property address: address 3, as your correspondence 
address. We have recorded your property address as address 4.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise  on behalf of Lloyds for making this error, I 
can appreciate the inconvenience this may have caused you previously when you have 
attempted to call us and have been  unsuccessful completing security.
I can confirm that I have now updated Lloyds  systems to show that your property address is 
now address 5 and your correspondence is address 4.
In the letter  of 19 October 2018 Lloyds said:
Having reviewed your mortgage application which you signed in 1988, you were  requesting  
an endowment mortgage  of £70,000,  part of which was to repay  your existing mortgage and 
to purchase as your signed application  shows: address 2.
The Mortgage offer was issued on this basis which you signed in acceptance.  Therefore  as 
the mortgage was set up with address 2 it would have been normal  for your correspondence 
address to be the same. We have no records of you [sic] contacting us to confirm  that your 
address was actually  address 3 until Miss M called us in March 2004 when your address  
was corrected.
. I am aware  that at times there  was a discrepancy with the address held on our mortgage 
system. However I can confirm from March  2004  to July 2016 we were sending  mail to the 
correct address.
. It was during the complaint resolution  in 2016 that the case  manager believed  your 
correspondence address was incorrect and changed this to address 4. This was confirmed 
in his letter he sent to address 3, however I am unable to see that you queried this and give 
us to opportunity  to correct this mistake. I note the correspondence address for Miss M was 
subsequently corrected in February 2018.  Unfortunately Mr Cs correspondence address 
was not corrected until it was noted during my investigation into your complaint.
I can confirm that the details held on your account are now correct. I apologise for these 
errors. A breach report has been  completed, as we do take matters  of this nature seriously. 
For any concern and inconvenience this may have  caused  you I have provided you with a 
further sum of £300.
.I am sorry that we incorrectly changed  your correspondence address in 2016 which  has 
now been corrected.
In the letter  of 13 November 2018  Lloyds said:
I reviewed  our mortgage systems and could  see that your date of birth was showing as xxx 
rather than, as you confirmed yyy. When reviewing your original mortgage application this 
also showed your date of birth as yyy, and I therefore arranged  to have our mortgage system  
updated, which I explained to you during our call, so this would not be an issue  in the future.
I apologise we held an incorrect date of birth for you. For the inconvenience  caused I would 
like to provide you with a sum of £250.  I enclose an offer form for you to complete and return 
with details of your chosen bank account,  so that I can arrange for the payment to be made.
Ref: DRN36191573Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr C and Miss Ms complaint be upheld.  He said Lloyds 
offer of £300 compensation for having  incorrect information held on file seemed fair and 
reasonable and in line with what he would have recommended.  From  what  he could see 
Mr C and Miss M hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of Lloyds administration of the 
mortgage account.
He understood  why Mr C and Miss M were  frustrated, and Lloyds itself had acknowledged 
there had been  failings  on its part. That was why it had offered compensation for what 
happened, which the investigator thought was fair and reasonable.
Mr C and Miss M didnt agree and requested that this aspect of their complaint be re-
examined by an ombudsman. They said (in relation to the matters covered by this decision) 
that Lloyds errors had included:
1.the incorrect address  for the property, 3 S Road, had persisted  for more than 15 years  
despite several corrections;
2.the address  for the secured property,  on the title and the deeds, was wrong  until and 
beyond 2016 despite constant advice to the contrary;
3.Mr Cs name was wrong on Lloyds system until November 2018,  despite Lloyds 
insisting that all its information had been checked  and was correct;
4.Mr Cs age and date of birth were wrongly entered  on the system, despite repeated 
assurances that these  had been checked  and verified;
5.the security access system  allowed access to Miss M but denied access  to Mr C on 
more than twenty occasions.
I took a different view of the complaint from the investigator.  So I decided  to issue a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both 
parties have now responded and so I issue my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I can see that the bank  statements  for October and November 1988, enclosed  with Mr C 
and Miss Ms letter to Lloyds dated  27 September 2018, are incorrectly addressed  to Miss M 
at address 2. My copy  bears  a handwritten  note road wrong in what I think is Mr Cs writing. 
And I assume that Lloyds sent other  documents and letters  to that address, because  that 
was (incorrectly) the address on its system. And this has caused a great deal of trouble and 
upset to Mr C and Miss M. 
Address 2 was the wrong address. It should  have been address 3. But that mistake  was 
made not by Lloyds,  but by Mr C and Miss M in their mortgage application.  
The title to the property was correctly  registered as address  3 despite Mr C and Miss Ms 
error, but that was done by the solicitors  and didnt involve Lloyds. Lloyds used the new 
Ref: DRN36191574property address given  by Mr C and Miss M in their application. I dont consider that was 
wrong. 
Turning to the specific points made by Mr C and Miss M in their response  to the investigator 
and following the numbering above:
1.Theres no suggestion in any of the documents,  or in Mr C and Miss Ms complaint letter 
to our service of 10 March  2019,  that the property was incorrectly described as address 
6. It seems to me that the correct  address was address 3, and the mistake alleged to 
have been made by Lloyds was to use address 2 instead of address  3. But that mistake 
came from Mr C and Miss Ms mortgage  application.
2.Ive looked  at the Land Registry title. The property register describes the property as 
follows:
(29.11.1988) The Freehold land shown edged with red on the plan of the above Title 
filed at the Registry and being address 3.
That, as I understand  it, is correct.  And theres  no indication  that it was initially  incorrect  
and had to be changed later. But in any case, if the address on the title was ever wrong 
that was likely to have been the fault of either  the Land Registry  or Mr C and Miss Ms 
solicitors. It wasnt Lloyds  job to register the title.
3.In their complaint  letter to our service of 10 March  2019 Mr C and Miss M complain about 
Lloyds using the wrong address  and date of birth for Mr C but they dont suggest it got 
his name  wrong. Nor is there any suggestion of this in either Mr Cs initial call to us on 
11 March 2019 or the complaint form. I think that if Mr C and Miss M wish to pursue this 
point they will have  to bring a fresh  complaint to Lloyds  and refer it to us if they are 
dissatisfied with Lloyds response.
4.Correct, see above. This is what the £250 offer relates to, which Ill deal with below.
5.This was most likely due to the incorrect date of birth, item 4.
Lloyds has offered compensation of £300 for the incorrect  address and £250  for the incorrect 
date of birth. 
On the evidence Ive seen  Lloyds  made  two mistakes:
in 2016, as accepted  in its letter of 18 July 2016, it wrongly changed Mr C and Miss Ms 
correspondence address from address 3 to address  2 and wrongly  recorded  their 
property address as address 2;
its system  had Mr Cs date of birth as xxx (incorrect) instead of yyy (correct). Theres 
nothing to suggest that this was anything other than an error by Lloyds.  It offered £250  
compensation for this.
To the extent that access was denied because  Lloyds system had address 2, I consider this 
was primarily  the fault of Mr C and Miss M for giving that address in the mortgage  
application. However it was Lloydss fault that having  previously  been  corrected, the address 
was changed  back to the incorrect  one on 18 July 2016. Its also unfortunate that on receipt  
Ref: DRN36191575of Lloyds letter of that date, Mr C and Miss M didnt reply correcting the errors, which  were  
very obvious. 
The investigator said he couldnt see that Mr C and Miss M had suffered any financial loss 
as a result  of these  errors, and their response to his findings doesnt mention any which  are 
within the scope  of this decision. They say:
The £300.00  compensation, never  paid,  is neither  here or there;  the real cost to us is the 
thousands of pounds the mis-selling has cost us and then, due to administrative 
inadequacies, the extra costs involved in paying  the mortgage over 32 years  so far. There  is 
no calculator that could  cost the pain and anguish caused to us in agreeing to an 
Endowment Mortgage  from Lloyds Bank.  
we are not interested in compensation  as such;  we want our Endowment Mortgage 
payments, over 32 years now, re-cast and compensation for years of overpayments.
However those two matters are outside the scope of this decision and are, as I understand it, 
the subject of a separate complaint.
Allowing for Mr C and Miss Ms own contribution  to the errors  Im not persuaded that the 
£550 offered by Lloyds is inadequate by way of compensation for its mistakes.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Lloyds said it had nothing  further to add. 
Mr C and Miss M addressed  the numbered points set out in their response to the investigator 
and my provisional findings, as follows:
1.They had never made  an error with the address. Lloyds  had completed the application.
2.It was Lloyds which got it wrong. It was a core competency of a lender  to know  the 
details and address  of the property it was lending  money on. The blame  attached to 
Lloyds for getting the address of the property correct  (I think  Mr C and Miss M meant for 
getting it incorrect) as they had just lent £70,000 on it.
3.They dont consider this is worth  another complaint.
4.They say Lloyds  has made three offers  totalling  £800. £250.00 in July 2016,  £300.00  in 
October 2018 and £250.00 in November 2018.
Mr C and Miss M also addressed my provisional  conclusions. They  said they didnt  hold any 
responsibility for inputting  any erroneous personal information data on Lloyds Bank  systems. 
The address  data didnt go bad in 2016  or 2018. They  were  wrong  from the start. The data 
were corrupted in the early to mid 1990s.
Lloyds should  set up mortgage  accounts  correctly and accurately by inputting  information 
from the title deeds  of the property. It was abundantly clear that for many years  Lloyds 
security details for the property were an entirely  different address to the property they lent 
£70,000 on in September  1988.
Ref: DRN36191576my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this final decision Ive further anonymised the addresses and dates at the request of Mr C 
and Miss M.
As before, I will deal only with the matters relating to this complaint and not the other matters 
mentioned in Mr C and Miss Ms letter to our service  dated 10 March  2019. Following the 
above numbering:
1.I didnt mean to suggest that Mr C and Miss M had personally written  the document.  
They put it forward as the basis on which they wished Lloyds to lend, and it was their 
responsibility to ensure  that the information  was correct. Indeed they signed a 
declaration that the statements and particulars given were true.
2.I dont agree. The address of the secured  property on the title was correct.
4.Mr C and Miss M are quite right, there have been three  offers or payments. My figure of 
£550 comprised  £300 for the incorrect address (letter dated  19 October 2018) and £250 
for the incorrect date of birth (letter dated  13 November 2018). But the letter of 18 July 
2016 also referred to a payment  of £300 which had already  been  made.  In fact the letter  
of 19 October says the same  thing, which is why I provisionally decided Lloyds should  
pay the £550 insofar as it had not already  done  so. I think the simplest course is to order  
Lloyds to pay all the sums it has offered (£850) less the sums  it has paid.
As regards  my provisional conclusions, I dont agree that Mr C and Miss M didnt have any 
responsibility for inputting  erroneous  personal  information data. The address data may well 
have been wrong  from the start,  but I havent  been persuaded to depart from my provisional 
view that the incorrect  address  was primarily the responsibility of Mr C and Miss M for giving 
that address in the mortgage application.
Nor do I agree that a mortgage account  should  be set up by taking information  from the title 
deeds. The legal charge  is not registered at the Land Registry  until after completion of the 
mortgage, and it may take weeks or months  for this to happen. The mortgage account needs 
to be set up long before that, and I dont  consider  Lloyds did anything wrong by using the 
address which  Mr C and Miss M gave in their mortgage application.
Furthermore Lloyds security details for the property were not a different address from the 
property it lent on in September  1988. The security details were always address 3.
For the reasons  given  above Im not minded to depart from my provisional conclusions.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already offered to pay, and may already have paid in full or in part, 
£850 to settle  the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds should  pay Mr C and Miss M £850 less the sums  it has already 
paid.
Ref: DRN36191577Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3619157