K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
January 2003  alongside  a credit card. Mr H, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. From  what  Ive seen 
about the card application process, I think Mr S made a decision to take out the policy.  
Ive seen that on his application form a box was already marked with an X to show hed 
chosen PPI. And I think he would  have had the opportunity to review his application and 
discuss it with the BoS representative before making his decision to buy the policy  and 
signing the application form. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S at a meeting in branch  even though  Mr S 
isnt so sure about this - so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong, given that it 
doesnt look as if he was entitled  to receive  any benefits from his employer.  And it means 
he wouldnt have to seek help elsewhere  or find other sources of funding if he was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness, or lost his job. I therefore dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
made by those representing Mr S in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  they dont  affect 
my decision.  
Ive noticed that Mr S had a period when he was out of work,  soon  after he bought  the policy.  
But it seems  he didnt  make try to make  a claim. If he still wishes to make a claim at this 
stage he should  contact BoS to see if it can help.
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr S paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. So I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN31290172From what  Ive seen, the offers already been to Mr S. But if not, BoS should  make 
arrangements to pay it now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3129017