K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage  premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage and the bank recommended  they also take out 
PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr C only. It cost just under £24 a month 
and would have  paid out about £400 a month  if Mr C had made a successful claim.
In 2001 Mr and Mrs C borrowed extra money on their mortgage. It appears the bank 
recommended extra  PPI. Again this covered Mr C only and cost an extra  £27 a month   and 
would have paid out an additional  £450 a month if Mr C had made  a successful claim.
In 2005 Mr and Mrs C borrowed again and also bought PPI. This time the policy  covered 
both of them and cost £14.85  and it could have  paid out £250  a month if theyd made  a 
successful claim.
Mr and Mrs C say they accepted the recommendation from the advisor that PPI suited their 
needs. Mr C says he and Mrs C had no finances to rely on if he couldnt work, and that 
although he was told he could cancel the PPI, he didnt as it had been so strongly 
recommended. 
Mr and Mrs C think the bank was wrong  to sell them the policy.  They  say a similar complaint 
they made got them a refund  and they think these circumstances  are similar, so they 
should get a refund for these policies too.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from some  of the 
sales. So Ive based my decision on the evidence  I do have and what  I think is most  likely to 
have happened. Ive also taken into account what we know about  how HSBC  sold such 
policies at the various times.
Mr and Mrs Cs main concern seems to be not that they didnt know they had the PPI, but 
that they accepted the recommendation from the adviser without realising they might not 
need it. 
Ref: DRN33253532HSBC has sent us a financial  planning review it carried out with Mr and Mrs C in 1998. In 
that its clear it was recommending the first policy Mr and Mrs C bought. From what  I can see 
of their circumstances  the policy was suitable.  It looks to me as though it was tailored to 
meet their circumstances  as it covered Mr C only. That reflects  the fact that he was the only 
earner, as Mrs C wasnt working at the time.
There isnt much paperwork  from the 2001  sale. But Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances dont 
appear to be much  different  Mr C was the only one covered, and the mortgage application 
record shows that his and Mrs Cs employment status remained the same. I think the PPI 
recommended this time was suitable, given  what we know of their circumstances.
By the time Mr and Mrs C borrowed  the third time, Mrs C says she was working. So it seems 
appropriate that HSBC recommended that both she and Mr C should now be covered.  Ive 
seen the mortgage offer and application papers and I can see the PPI is referred to as 
optional. 
From what  this service knows about how HSBC  sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr and Mrs C 
were given a choice about buying the PPI. I think its also likely HSBC  sent the relevant 
literature to Mr and Mrs C after the sale  indeed Mr C has acknowledged he got some,  if not 
all, of this. I think this would have been before the PPI actually started each time, as theres 
normally some delay  between buying  PPI and cover starting, which  is when the mortgage or 
additional loans  begin. Thats what HSBC normally did, and I cant see any reason why it 
would treat Mr and Mrs C differently.
I dont know exactly when  Mr and Mrs C were told what the PPI would cost.  But I do think  
that each time they bought it theyd have known it cost something.  The policies were 
competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think  when Mr and Mrs C first 
knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
Its possible that HSBC  could have provided more information about the policy, particularly in 
regard to the things that it didnt cover. But neither Mr C  nor Mrs C in 2005  was affected 
by any of these  things at the time,  so I dont think that more information would have caused 
them to change their minds about buying  the policy.  So they arent any worse  off as a result 
of anything HSBC  may have done  wrong. So theres  nothing  that HSBC needs to do to put 
things right.
I do understand why Mr C says that, as HSBC refunded premiums on one PPI purchase,  it 
should provide  a refund on this set of PPI sales. I dont know exactly what  happened in the 
other sale, but Ive reached my decision here based  only on the circumstances of these 
particular sales.
Ref: DRN33253533my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3325353