K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint. To keep  things simpler, Ill refer to FICL as the seller  
in my decision.
Ms M says FICL mis-sold  her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Ms M took out PPI alongside a store card in November 1998. She applied for the card whilst  
she was shopping  in the store.  
Among other  things, Ms M said she wasnt working  when she took out this card and so 
doesnt think she wouldve been  covered by the PPI.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that because 
Ms M wasnt employed when  she took out the PPI, this meant  she wouldve been unable  to 
claim on the primary benefits of the policy. So he didnt think the policy shouldve been sold 
to Ms M.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Ms Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Looking at the policy that shes  likely to have  taken out, to be eligible for the PPI cover,  the 
applicant needed  to be working. Based on what shes  told us, Ms M didnt meet  this 
requirement, and so wasnt eligible for the policy at that time.
FICL says the card application  Ms M completed  to take out the cover is ticked to show  she 
was working full time  and shed been with her employer for a year.
Our adjudicator asked  Ms M to explain why shed signed an application saying  this if it 
wasnt correct. Ms M says she thinks she misunderstood the form and completed information 
that applied to her partner  rather than her. 
And I see that on the part of the form requiring employment details to be filled in, the first 
question asked: Are you or your partner in permanent paid employment?
Ms M has consistently told us (and FICL) that she wasnt  working  at the time  she was at 
home looking after a young child (and she did mention she had 2 dependents  on the 
application). But she says her partner was working.  I think its reasonable for me to accept  
what shes said about this, and about  having  misunderstood the question  on the form.
Ref: DRN36787122Ive also taken into account that she hasnt  filled in any employers details where it asks for 
this. I think its likely that Ms M wouldve known this information and put in her employers 
name and address if she had actually been working at the time. I think  its less likely that she 
wouldve known these  details about her partners  employment  so I can see why this part 
mightve been left blank.  
I find what Ms M says persuasive, on balance. And so I dont think  that she was eligible for 
the policy. This means that FICL shouldnt have sold it to her. And I think  Ms M has lost out 
because of what FICL did wrong  and it should put things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms M in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. How it 
does this will depend on whether Ms Ms store card account is still active or has been  
closed.
If Ms Ms account  is still active, the policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled  
already and:
A. FICL  should find out how much Ms M would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms M owes and what she would  
have owed.
If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when FICL works out what Ms M would have owed each month without PPI  
Ms M paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest 
on the extra Ms M paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Ms M 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C. FICL  should tell Ms M what its done to work  out A and B.
If Ms Ms account  has been closed: 
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms M would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN36787123If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms M would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms M would have owed each month  without PPI  Ms M 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms M 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Ms M what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax FICL have taken off if she asks for one. 
I understand Ms M has been  in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Her IVA 
supervisor has expressed an interest in any compensation  Ms M might  receive.  Ms M and 
FICL should bear in mind  Ms Ms obligations  under that IVA in respect of any compensation 
she gets and make sure it is paid to the right person(s). A copy of this decision will be sent to 
her IVA supervisor. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3678712