K821x#15complaint
Mrs W, represented by a claims  management  company (CMC),  complains that she was 
given unsuitable  investment advice  by College Street Insurance  Advisers.
background
In late 2007 Mrs W was given advice relating to a sum of money shed recently  inherited. 
She had just over £80,000 available after paying  off her mortgage and on College Streets  
recommendation she invested £20,000  of it, the balance being left available  for home 
improvements. (Mrs W was also advised  on contributions  to a personal pension  and an ISA, 
but neither are the subject  of this complaint).
The £20,000  was placed in an investment bond, invested in two primarily equity-based 
funds. After only a short  period, Mrs W surrendered the bond   in April 2009   and received 
back only just over £12,500. 
In 2019 Mrs Ws CMC  made a complaint to College  Street about the suitability of the advice, 
saying, in essence, that the bond  had been  too risky for her. But College Street felt the 
complaint had been made too late, outside  the time limits required by our rules.  It said that 
Mrs W ought to have  been aware  that she had cause for complaint when she surrendered 
the bond in 2009  and incurred the loss. 
An ombudsman colleague considered the issue of jurisdiction and concluded that the 
complaint had not been made too late. In brief, he felt that despite the loss, the 
circumstances of the surrender  made early due to the invested  money  being  required 
suddenly by Mrs W, and against the backdrop of the 2008 financial  crisis   werent  such  that 
she ought reasonably aware to have been  aware  that she had cause to complain about the 
suitability of the advice at that time. 
Our investigator then went on to consider  the merits of the complaint and concluded  that it 
should be upheld.  He was satisfied that at the time of the advice Mrs W had sufficient 
income to cover her regular expenditure and therefore the capacity to make an investment of 
some sort. But he noted that, beside her contracted-out pension contributions,  she appeared 
to have little investment experience and was not an active investor. 
Given this lack of experience, the investigator didnt think  categorising  Mrs W as having a 
medium attitude to risk was reasonable, and that doing so had led her to invest in equity-
reliant funds that carried a level of risk that she was unlikely to have wanted or fully 
appreciated. He suggested that College Street  therefore compensate  Mrs W by comparing 
the performance of the unsuitable bond with that of this services cautious risk benchmark 
and pay any loss, plus interest.
College Street didnt  accept the investigators  view. It felt that Mrs W had been an active  
investor for many years via her pension and as a result wouldve experienced and 
understood the ups and downs of the stock markets through  previous financial crises.  And 
further, it said her existing equity-based pension investment funds had been discussed as 
part of the advice process. It noted  that the separate pension  recommendation made  to her 
at the same  time as the bond recommendation had been invested with the same  fund split 
but that no complaint had been made  about that advice.  
Ref: DRN32079322Merits aside, College Street  also continued to challenge the finding that the complaint was 
within our jurisdiction. It felt that several  of Mrs Ws and the CMCs comments had been 
contradictory. It didnt  think  it fair that it should be held responsible for Mrs Ws loss and 
noted also that she wouldve incurred a surrender penalty regardless of the way she had 
invested  even at a lower level of risk  so, in any event, it shouldnt have to compensate 
for that loss. 
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters been  referred  to me 
to review. 
my findings
Firstly, as noted, College  Street has continued  to contest  the finding  that this service has 
jurisdiction to consider  the merits of the complaint. Ive noted its comments, but I dont feel 
that any new information or argument  has been  provided  that persuades me to reach a 
different conclusion to that reached by my colleague; that the complaint has not been 
referred too late and is therefore within our jurisdiction. 
Turning to the merits of the complaint, Ive considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusions as the investigator and for broadly  the 
same reasons. 
Much has been made of the apparent investment experience gained  by Mrs W through  her 
pension. Clearly, the nature of the way the pension  was invested  as a contracted-out 
personal pension  plan  suggests that Mrs W had previously given some degree of thought  
to her pension provision.  But I dont think this indicates that prior to College Streets 2007 
advice she had necessarily been  an active investor. As far as I can see, her pension  at that 
point was invested across  two with profits funds and a managed fund  not to my mind an 
indication of someone who is a particularly knowledgeable or sophisticated  investor.
So, it appears that the investment of £20,000  into the bond was more  likely than not Mrs Ws 
first real foray into active, standalone investing.  And that being so, I find it difficult  to 
conclude that investing virtually the whole amount into equities, including  international 
exposure, was likely to be consistent with her understanding and experience of investment 
risk, nor her objectives for the money.  
The Reasons Why Report  of October  2007,  in the Attitude to Risk section, categorised 
Mrs Ws attitude as 3- 4 Medium (Generally)  on a scale of 1 to 10. It went on to say:
Even though  you would  both normally describe yourself as having a Low to Medium attitude 
to risk in general, we discussed your attitude to Investment  Risk in great detail, in relation to 
this policy  and because  you required  growth.  We considered a Unit-linked (sic) to more  
closely match your requirements  as opposed to a Fixed Interest/Property fund which offer 
less potential for long term growth. 
While these comments indicate that a detailed discussion of risk took place, I dont think they 
indicate an agreement  or understanding that Mrs W normal  attitude  would be increasing, for 
the purposes of this recommendation,  to the level associated with equity-based investment. 
In my view it very much suggests taking a step beyond a low/cautious type investment  the 
fixed interest/property fund level  to something  with maybe a little more  risk, but not the 
sort of risk that the two recommended funds  involved. 
Ref: DRN32079323I appreciate that this is only a snapshot of what happened and what  was discussed, and that 
there was much more  documentation supplied to Mrs W. But ultimately  it was the advisers 
responsibility to ensure  that the investment was suitable for her circumstances and 
objectives. And, on the face of the evidence, I dont think it was. 
Although Mrs W had just over £80,000 available to her, so the bond investment represented 
a relatively small proportion of this, it was documented that the balance was to be used for 
home improvements. There  was no indication in the fact find that Mrs W had any other large  
sums of money available to her. So, once the balance of her inheritance  was used, this 
£20,000 wouldve  potentially  represented the bulk of her remaining money. That being  so, 
while she would clearly  have wanted  it to grow  in value, Im unable  to conclude that she 
wouldve wanted to put it at any great degree of risk.       
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs W as close  to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mrs W would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
What should College  Street  do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, College  Street must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
College Street should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Investment  
Bond  
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Ref: DRN32079324Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  College Street 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds  would be a fair measure for someone  who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider  that Mrs Ws risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs W into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs W would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index  tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs W could  have  obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional  interest  is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
I note College Streets point about the early surrender penalty incurred by Mrs W and that 
this would have  been applied in any event, regardless of the level of risk, because  Mrs W 
surrendered early as she needed the money. But Ive not made  any provision for this as the 
benchmark comparison set out above  is, as noted,  intended to broadly  reflect  possible 
alternatives. As we do not know  what Mrs W wouldve done had she been  more suitably 
advised, it cant be said with any certainty  that she would  otherwise have incurred  the loss 
due to an early surrender  penalty.
    
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct College 
Street Insurance Advisers to pay compensation to Mrs W as set out above. 
Ref: DRN32079325Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207932