K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (True Potential) failed to tell 
him of an offer on one of the funds held in his Self Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) and 
consequently, he has suffered  a financial loss. Mr C has also complained  that True Potential  
failed to contact  him or offer any advice. 
Mr C wants True Potential to return all commission paid to it by him and reimbursement of 
the specific fund loss he says he has suffered.
background
Mr C complained to True Potential on 7 September 2018.
True Potential  said, in summary, in its final response letter of 7 November 2018 that:
Having  spoken  to  (SIPP provider)on  2 November  2018,   they  have  confirmed  that 
the monthly  remuneration  of 0.5% currently  being deducted  from your plan is set as a 
fund based  renewal  commission.
Prior to the Retail Distribution  Review  which came  into effect  on 1 January  2013,   
trail commission  was paid to financial  advisers   over the lifetime  of their client's  
products  and was  taken   out of the  sum of the investment.  Although  commission  was 
outlawed for such  products  in 2013, any commission  set up prior to this date is allowed  
to continue.  However,  as no servicing  has been provided  to you for this plan since 
(Mr B) left True  Potential  Wealth  Management,  we have  contacted  (SIPP  provider)  to 
confirm  that servicing  is no longer  being provided  and have also asked for the 
monthly commission  payments  to be cancelled  with immediate  effect.
Mr C then referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that Mr Cs complaint should not be upheld.  In summary, our 
investigator said:
As your SIPP began  prior to January 2013 it means that trail commission  would've been 
applied to your SIPP throughout the life of the policy. TP did contact you in 
November 2016 to inform  you of (Mr Bs) departure and invited you to obtain another  
adviser. As they didn't hear from you TP were unable  to allocate  you an adviser  without 
your explicit  consent. this ultimately  meant  that when the offer was translated  to TP 
advisers in April 2018 you weren't notified  as you didn't have ..an  adviser.
unless you had a direct financial adviser  I wouldn't expect a TP adviser to contact 
you regarding the offer. Also as TP did inform you of (Mr Bs) departure and invited you 
to employ a new adviser and they didn't hear back, I'm unable to hold them  responsible  
for this. In regards  to the commission charged  as the SIPP  was set up prior to the 
implementation of the RDR I'm also unable to request a refund of this as it has been 
charged correctly.
..TP have offered  £250 in recognition of the poor service provided which I think  is fair in 
the circumstances so I won't  be asking them to do anything further.
Ref: DRN39813022Mr C did not agree.  He responded  to the investigators  view on 29 July 2019.  In summary,  
he said:
I have not had any interaction with True wealth management since 2013,  I only had one 
meeting with (Mr B) and then nothing.  I receive d  no such   letter at any  time,  as a 
matter of due  diligence TWM would  have  had   my email  address which  would  have 
facilitated a validated delivery and  response, this  channel was never  usedThis is 
incorrect  I was neither contacted  nor  received  any  advice  on the matterThe above  
demonstrates a clear   example of negligence  on the  providers part ,resulting  in a material 
loss for which  they are  responsible..
Our investigator  was not persuaded that this complaint should not be upheld.
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If specific evidence is not available or inconclusive,  I take into account the balance of 
probability. In other words, what I consider is most  likely to have happened in all the 
circumstances.
There are two aspects to Mr Cs complaint. First,  that he has been charged commission for 
services he has not received. Second, that True Potential has caused him a loss by not 
passing to him an offer from his SIPP  provider  to redeem one of his SIPP  investments.
In respect of the commission  paid by Mr C to True Potential, I agree that Mr C was not 
provided with the annual  reviews he was promised in 2013  when  he engaged True Potential  
as his financial adviser. True Potential has acknowledged this failing  in its service to Mr C.
However, if Mr Cs expectation was that he would receive annual  reviews, I am surprised 
that between 2013 and 2018, having failed  to receive such expected reviews, Mr C did not 
complain to True Potential about  this annual omission until 2018.
I appreciate that Mr C will say that he relied on his financial adviser for advice in respect of 
his pension arrangements.  But that does not absolve Mr C from taking some interest in 
those arrangements. 
Mr C says he did not receive True Potentials letter of 22 November 2016  informing him that 
his adviser (Mr B) had left True Potentials  employment. He therefore could not respond to 
it. True Potential  has provided this service with a copy  of that letter.  I have no reason to 
doubt that it is a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr C.
I have noted that this letter was correctly addressed. I also note that True Potential  says it 
wrote to all Mr Bs clients informing them of Mr Bs departure.
The letter said:
Part of the original  terms and conditions when your policy  was set up with (Mr B) would 
have included an ongoing adviser  fee which entitles you to an annual review.  We would 
Ref: DRN39813023therefore like to allocate a suitably qualified adviser  in your area who is registered with 
True Potential  Wealth Management .
While you will, of course, still be able to monitor your financial plans and goals through  your 
personal client website,  we wish to ensure that you are provided with the highest level of 
personal service.
Please email  us using  Mac@tpllp.com,  or write  to us at the following address, and we will 
make the necessary arrangements for you.
In other  words, it confirmed Mr C was entitled  to annual reviews  and that the ongoing adviser 
fee included but was not limited to, such annual reviews . I have not seen evidence to show  
that Mr C responded  to this letter. 
In circumstances  such as this, our approach is to conclude, on the balance  of probability, 
that it is more likely than not that the letter was sent. Of course, that does not mean Mr C 
actually received it. There may have been a third party failure, for example Royal Mail may 
have delivered  it to the wrong address, notwithstanding that the great  majority  of mail is 
delivered to the intended  address.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to hold True Potential to account  for any such third 
party failure. 
But even if Mr C did not receive this letter, it remains the case  that his expectation from 2013 
was that he would receive annual reviews of his pension arrangements. He did not receive 
these so he ought reasonably to have enquired of True Potential,  on any reasonable basis, 
by end 2016 at the latest as to why this was the case. 
Had he done so, it would  then have been  apparent that he had not received the letter  from 
True Potential  of November 2016.
In my view, as the commission payments  apparently reflected not only the costs of the 
original advice as well as ongoing annual reviews  and was consistent  with the rules about 
commission prevailing at the time, True Potentials  offer to pay Mr C £250 for the failure to 
provide annual reviews  is not unreasonable. 
Mr C has not provided persuasive  evidence to show that in 2013 he agreed to commission  
payments on a different basis. 
In respect of the second aspect of Mr Cs complaint, namely that True Potential failed to tell 
him of an offer to redeem  one of his funds within his SIPP, I have concluded  that as Mr C 
either failed  to respond to the November  2016  letter, or if having not received it, anyway 
failed to make further enquiries of True Potential  about the annual reviews being  missed, 
True Potential  cannot fairly  or reasonably be held to account for failing to pass  on to Mr C 
the offer from his SIPP provider about  one of his SIPP funds.  
It follows that I agree with our investigators conclusions  in saying that:
..TP did contact you in November  2016  to inform you of (Mr Bs) departure  and invited 
you to obtain another  adviser.  As they didn't  hear from you TP were  unable to allocate you 
an adviser without your explicit consent. As such this ultimately meant that when the offer 
was translated  to TP advisers in April 2018  you weren't notified as you didn't have a 
Ref: DRN39813024relationship with an adviser . Whilst I understand your frustration, unless you had a direct  
financial adviser I wouldn't  expect a TP adviser to contact you regarding the offer.  Also 
as TP did inform you of (Mr Bs) departure and invited  you to employ  a new adviser and 
they didn't  hear back, I'm unable  to hold them responsible  for this. In regards to the 
commission charged  as the SIPP was set up prior to the implementation of the RDR  I'm 
also unable to request  a refund  of this as it has been charged correctly.
Finally, I have noted Mr C says in his submission of 14 January 2020 that: 
I received this communication from (SIPP  provider) today. I believe this supports my claim 
that they were  and are capable of providing the information regarding City Living PCC.
Mr Cs assertion may or may not be correct. But my decision here only addresses  Mr Cs 
complaint against  True Potential. It is therefore  inappropriate  for me to comment  further  on 
Mr Cs assertion in respect of this communication from his SIPP provider. It is not relevant  to 
his complaint against True Potential Wealth Management LLP.
   
I agree  with our investigator that True Potential Wealth Management LLPs offer of £250  for 
its failure to provide annual reviews is fair and reasonable. It is consistent with what  I would 
have directed had such  an offer not been  made.
I understand this offer is still available. It is for Mr C to decide  whether or not to accept it.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  True Potential Wealth  Management  LLP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
                                  
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3981302