K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that their mortgage lender Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) hasnt done 
enough to help them during their financial difficulties. They complain that BoS:
- wont  let them set up a new payment arrangement;
- sent a threatening letter in October  2018; and
- hasnt done anything to help them during  their financial hardship.
Mr T has managed the complaint throughout.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs T took out an interest only mortgage with BoS through  a mortgage 
broker. The mortgage  was for around £665,000  over 19 years. The mortgage was initially  on 
a tracker rate which expired in 2010.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs T transferred to another tracker rate that expired in 2013. Since that time 
their mortgage has been  on BoS home loan rate (or its standard  variable rate or SVR). They  
now owe around £32,000 on a capital repayment basis  and a further £662,000 on an interest  
only loan.
The mortgage fell into arrears when Mr T lost his job a few years  ago. Mr T has also had 
serious health problems shortly  after losing  his job and he hasnt been able to work  since.  
The mortgage arrears  are now around £50,000.
In October  2018 BoS sent Mr and Mrs T a letter saying  it was considering legal  action. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to BoS but it didnt uphold  their complaint. It gave its final 
response on 2 November 2018  and Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She thought Mr T and BoS had been in regular 
contact and that BoS had explored  options  with Mr T. Overall  she didnt think BoS could 
have been expected to do more to help Mr and Mrs T in all the circumstances. She said she 
hoped that Mr Ts decision to release money from his pension  might help resolve  things in 
the short term.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators findings.  He said hed been  bullied into paying  part of 
his mortgage off with his pension and that we should  be on his side.  He asked that an 
ombudsman look at the complaint again  and make  a final decision  on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should  explain  that were an informal dispute  resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts. Were not a consumer champion or an industry regulator. Were 
also not on the side of either party when a complaint is brought to us. We look at the 
particular circumstances  of each complaint and try to determine whether  a business has 
made a mistake or caused a consumer financial loss or suffering by unfair treatment. Where 
possible we look to put a consumer back in the position they would have been in, but for the 
mistake of the business  if we find there is one.
Ref: DRN34431472Im sorry  to hear about  the problems Mr and Mrs T have  faced  in recent years.  The loss of 
Mr Ts job followed by his ill health must have made  this an incredibly difficult and stressful 
time for Mr and Mrs T. Its evident  from the contact  history of the mortgage account that 
Mr T, in particular,  has gone to great lengths to keep BoS up-to-date  with their efforts to sell 
their property and try to repay the BoS mortgage.  
Ive thought carefully about the support  that BoS has given to Mr and Mrs T in recent years 
and since October 2018 when  it decided to send the letter  saying it was considering legal 
action. When looking at this complaint,  Ive considered relevant regulation and legislation 
surrounding consumers  in long term arrears, including recent  guidance from the Financial 
Conduct Authority  on this matter.
Mr Ts told us that BoS had agreed to repayment  arrangements in the past  for around 
18 months after he lost his job and became unwell. Hes said that these payment 
arrangements were set up to pay an amount  each  month that was well below the contractual 
monthly payment.  BoS wouldnt agree to extend  this arrangement.  I can see why BoS wasnt 
content to let the arrears continue to escalate. The arrears on this mortgage account have 
now reached a significant  level. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T know this  its precisely why 
theyve been trying to sell their house.  They want to repay their mortgage. I also see that this 
will be a growing concern for BoS and that is why it had considered legal action.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs T are doing all that they can to try and sell their home.  It sounds  
like they have a substantial property and theyre trying to sell in a difficult  economic 
environment. Its very encouraging that theres been  recent interest in the property. Its also 
good that Mr T is updating BoS about this regularly.
I can see why Mr and Mrs T would  have been  upset by the letter received from BoS dated 
8 October 2018. Ive looked at this letter and considered its content. The letter  which is 
entitled non-payment of your mortgage contains  a sobering message. I think  its fair to say 
its written in a way to get the readers  attention  and highlight how serious  the arrears 
position has become  on their mortgage account. I can appreciate  why Mr T didnt feel he 
needed reminding  of the position he and Mrs T are already  trying  to sort out. But, its a 
standard letter and its important that BoS reminds  its consumers of the consequences of 
their mortgage arrears before it takes  any legal action. I dont think it was unfair  of BoS to 
send this letter to Mr and Mrs T when it did. I can see why BoS was seriously considering  
what steps it should be taking when arrears  have escalated to the extent  they have.
Ive listened to the phone calls between  Mr T and BoS on 7 December, 13 December and 
17 December 2018. I wanted to hear what level of customer service Mr T was experiencing 
when he called BoS, and how helpful  and supportive BoS was being to his situation. I also 
wanted to get a feel for how receptive BoS was to exploring a payment plan going forward. 
Mr T has now released some money  from his pension.  This has meant that hes been able to 
make a payment  to BoS in December, and then commit to making a similar payment or 
around £3,600  for the next three months. BoS explored whether such  an arrangement would  
be affordable to Mr and Mrs T. It thought about  all Mr and Mrs Ts income and their other 
bills and checked they could meet the payments.  This is what I would expect BoS to have 
done in such a situation.
Ref: DRN34431473BoS had agreed  to put its legal action  on hold while Mr T had a complaint with us. It also 
confirmed that any action would be on hold while Mr and Mrs T are making  the payments 
agreed under the payment plan set up in December  2018. Mr T plans to draw further money 
from his pension in April to he can make a series  of further repayments to his mortgage 
while he sells his property. Assuming Mr T can achieve this, it gives  him and Mrs T some 
breathing space in which  to sell their property. Again, this all seems reasonable to me.
Mr T has said that he was bullied by BoS into drawing money  from his pension. I havent 
found any evidence  that supports undue pressure was placed on Mr T. However I can see 
why Mr T may have felt that he had little choice at the time. 
Mr T has also complained that he hasnt  got a single  point of contact at BoS.  Hes unhappy  
he has to explain his situation every time he calls. The three calls in December were all with 
different call handlers. And, I dont think the customer  service, or outcome reached  on the 
calls, would have  been different if Mr T had been given one contact. In fact, it may have  
become more difficult for Mr T to access a single  point  of contact (dependent on their 
working hours, Christmas leave etc). I dont think its unreasonable  that BoS hasnt given 
Mr and Mrs T a single point of contact in the circumstances.
While I understand what a difficult time this has been for Mr and Mrs T, Im satisfied that BoS 
appears to have treated them fairly.  For the time being theyve found  a way forward that is 
agreeable to BoS. This is admittedly a relatively  short term fix and it does rely on 
Mr and Mrs T managing to sell their property soon.  For the avoidance of doubt, I think  it 
would be unreasonable if BoS had been taking  no action to encourage Mr and Mrs T to try to 
manage their arrears. It could  be seen  as irresponsible if a lender let arrears escalate 
indefinitely. If BoS took no action, I dont think this would be helpful  to Mr and Mrs T in the 
medium to long term.  
Mr T has also mentioned that their situation  isnt helped because  their mortgage is on BoS  
SVR, which  is currently around  5.2%.  Mr T considers this is too high. I appreciate  the point 
that Mr T makes,  and I can see the impact  that any movements to the interest rate will make 
to their mortgage. This is especially  true as most  of the mortgage  is on an interest  only 
basis. Mr and Mrs T are on the standard reversionary rate that any BoS customer would go 
to if they havent  taken  out another interest rate product. This is the rate that the mortgage 
offer in 2010  said their borrowing would revert to for the rest of the term. BoS considered  
Mr Ts request for a lower rate of interest but it decided not to make  a discount available  as a 
forbearance measure.  I dont think it was obliged to do so. Overall I think its reasonable that 
Mr and Mrs T remain on the SVR until they sell their home. I hope  this happens in the near 
future.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Emma Peters
Ref: DRN34431474ombudsman
Ref: DRN3443147