K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Arval  UK Limited  unfairly  altered  the payment terms when he agreed 
to extend his contract of hire for a car.
background
Mr B entered  into a car hire agreement with Arval  for a new car. The contract  was to 
run from November 2015 until November 2018. The payments were £265.14 plus VAT 
per month.
In May 2018 Mr B made enquiries as to his options when the agreement ended. He asked 
if the contract could  be extended.
Mr B received a quote that was valid for a month.  This quote set out, under the heading 
Comparison,  the current monthly  costs for a 36 month agreement and then the monthly 
costs of a 48 month  agreement. The figure for the 36 months  was £265.14  and the figure 
for 48 months was £225.37. The quote  said that This extension  will be ratified when Arval  
receives this fully completed  document or from the expiry date of the current  contract  term
Mr B signed the quote and returned  it to Arval  indicating  that he accepted it, together with 
an email setting out his understanding  of the figures provided. Mr B said:
My understanding  of the quote  I am accepting is as follows:
 I have paid to date 36 x £265.14  = £9,545.04
 The revised total due is 48 x £225.37 = £10,817.76
 Leaving a balance  due of £1,272.72  + VAT = £1,527.26
 I presume this will be collected in 12 equal  instalments   if correct please 
confirm when this will start and finish.
Mr B said he was therefore expecting 12 monthly  payments of £127.27 when the 
agreement was renewed from 12 months in November  2018.
Arval replied to Mr B by email that it had accepted your quote  in the system with the 
new monthly rental of £225.37pm ex VAT. This new pricing will go live as of x 
November.
In November  2018 Mr B was invoiced for £225.37 plus VAT. He complained to Arval 
and said this was in breach of what had been  agreed.
Arval didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. It said while it appreciated how hed reached  his 
figures, and that this hadnt been specifically  contradicted, the new monthly  cost had 
been clearly laid out in the quote and email. And Mr B had accepted the new monthly 
amount when he signed the contract for the extension. Arval said Mr B hadnt queried  
why the monthly  figure as set out in the email  differed from his calculation.
Arval said the monthly  amount for the extension period was correct  and Mr B would be 
invoiced that figure  going forward. However  if that remained unacceptable then Arval  
would agree to terminate the agreement  and take the car back without applying  an early 
termination penalty as a gesture of goodwill.
Ref: DRN35729812Mr B was unhappy  at Arvals decision and complained to this service. He said he didnt 
want to terminate the agreement but thought it was fair for Arval to continue it at the 
monthly rate of £127.27.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Arval had agreed there was an error  on the quote as it shouldve  said the extension was 
12 months but had said 48 months  instead. But it was for Arval  to decide what it 
charged for the hire of a car and he thought its response to Mr Bs complaint had been 
fair.
Mr B disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that he had signed an 
agreement that said one thing and Arval now wanted to charge a different amount for the 
12 month period.  He said Arval agreed it had made  a mistake in the contract which  had 
left him expecting  one thing but getting another. Mr B said he had signed  the agreement  
for the extension in good faith and Arval  shouldnt be able to renege on a signed  contract.
Mr B said that he was facing having to pay £1718.14 more than hed expected and if it 
wasnt agreed that Arval should  be bound by the payment term that hed signed and 
agreed then Arval should be found  accountable for that loss.
As the parties  couldnt agree then the complaint was passed  to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Id seen that Mr B had been happy with the terms and conditions of the original three year 
contract hed had with Arval for the car. Hed requested extending this agreement  for a 
further year and this had generated the quote hed received in June  2018.
This quote, if signed by Mr B, became the agreement to extend the original agreement by a 
further 12 months. Mr B signed this and sent it together with his detailed explanation of how 
hed read the figures.
Looking at this quote, I hadnt read it the same  way as Mr B. I thought it set out the figures 
for his current agreement and then the new monthly figure for the additional 12 months. I 
didnt think many people  would have expected to have  to make a complicated  calculation as 
to what the actual monthly costs would be if they extended an agreement.
However, I appreciated that the quote  dud set out the costs  of the current  contract term and 
then next to them was set out the costs of a contract  term for 48 months for comparison.  So 
I accepted that it was capable of being read in another way. But I also thought  it was 
reasonably clear as to what the relevant  monthly  costs were going to be.
Id seen that Mr B had set out clearly in his email that accompanied the signed  quote 
his understanding of the agreement. Arval hadnt corrected him, and in its reply  email 
it simply stated  that a new monthly rental of £225.37  would go live from November 
2018. Mr B didnt appear to have  queried  this monthly figure.
I didnt think this was a breach of contract as Mr B believed as while I could see how the 
quote would  be open to different interpretations, I thought it did explain  the relevant cost.  
However, I thought  Arval  should have been clearer about the costs when it received Mr Bs 
detailed email and told him that his view of the payment terms wasnt correct. But I also 
thought it would have been  reasonable for Mr B to have queried  the email  sent to him by 
Ref: DRN35729813Arval setting out the new monthly payment that would go live from November as that hadnt 
matched his calculated  figure.
I thought Arvals  offer to terminate this agreement without penalty if Mr B considered it 
unacceptable was fair in the circumstances. That will be a matter for Mr B to now decide. I 
also thought that Arvals  lack of clarity  about  the monthly payment had caused Mr B 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I thought compensation of £150  was fair and 
reasonable to reflect  this.
So I intended to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B hasnt asked me to look again at any parts of my decision. Arval has accepted  my 
provisional decision but asked that instead of paying  Mr B the compensation directly that it 
offsets this amount against his next rental payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been asked by either party to reconsider any part of my decision and so I havent 
changed my view. But I do think that its fair for Arval to pay the compensation directly to Mr 
B rather than put that amount towards his rental  payments. This is Mr Bs award for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and so its fair for it to be a matter for him to decide what  
that money is used  for.
So for the reasons given above  Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint and Im asking Arval 
to pay him £150  compensation  to resolve  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Im asking Arval UK Limited 
to pay Mr B £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him over the 
lack of clarity of the monthly  payment due under the extended hire agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3572981