K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains about four instalment loans that she took out with Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL), which she said were unaffordable.
background 
Mrs S was given four instalment loans by SL from February 2014 to May 2018. A summary  
of the loans taken out by Mrs S is shown  below:
Loan 
numberDate of loanRepayment  
dateLoan 
amountRepayment  amounts
1 24/2/14 23/4/14 £150 13 weekly  repayments  of  £16.15
2 23/4/14 27/10/14 £300 26 weekly  repayments  of £19.38
3 8/7/15 18/4/16 £600 39 weekly  repayments  of £27.69
4 28/5/18 Unpaid £500 6 monthly  repayments  of £158.00
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mrs S for details of 
her income and expenditure. And before Loans 3 and 4 SL also applied extra safeguards  
and buffers to Mrs Ss declared expenses to reflect  the information it obtained from its credit 
and internal checks.  
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He noted  that Mrs S 
was struggling financially.  But he didnt think it would have been proportionate for SL to ask 
Mrs S for the amount  of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.
Mrs S disagreed. She said that SLs final response  letter didnt include any information  about 
her rent and other expenditure before Loan 4. So she queried what SL had based  its lending 
criteria on. Mrs S also referred to the entries  on her bank statements  which she said 
included amounts which shouldnt be included as her income. Mrs S also referred to another 
complaint with this service  which had been upheld.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to SL on 10 May 2018.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Mrs S had said that another  complaint  shed made  with another lender had 
been upheld. But I said that we treated each complaint on its own merits. And it wasnt 
always appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints without a detailed  understanding  
of the specific facts of each complaint.  
I explained that when SL first lent to Mrs S the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) 
and relevant guidance had included its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 
2014 onwards  the regulator  was the FCA and relevant  regulations and guidance included its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The ILG and CONC contained similar guidance for 
lenders about  responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN32477182SL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
meant that it should  have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs Ss 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
thought less thorough checks might have been  reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  have pointed to the fact that SL should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors included:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  refinancing 
might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to say that SL was required to establish whether Mrs S 
could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether  the loan payments  were  affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the ILG and later the CONC defined sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments, as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mrs Ss complaint.
SL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mrs S. It had asked her for details of her 
income and expenditure. Mrs S had declared  her monthly income  as £1,500  and her 
expenditure as £624 before Loans 1 and 2. Shed declared her monthly income as £1,400 
and expenditure  as £600 before Loan 3 and her income as £1,200 and her expenditure 
as £90 before Loan 4.
Id also noted  that SL had checked Mrs Ss credit  file before agreeing to the loans. SL had 
provided this service with a summary of its credit checks. But SLs credit checks  didnt appear to 
show any specific information before Loans 1 and 2. They  referred to no matching agreement. 
The checks  before Loans 3 and 4 showed  no active credit accounts in arrears,  no county court 
judgements, no bankruptcy, no debt management  plans  and no county court  judgements. And 
Ref: DRN32477183before Loan 4 the checks showed no payday loans taken in the previous three months.  But the 
checks before Loan 4 did appear to show a defaulted account before Loan  4. 
Mrs S had provided this service with a copy of her credit report. I could see there were 
defaults in the 12 months  before Loan 1, one of which was less than two months before 
Loan 1. The report  also showed a default around  three months before Loan 4.
But I was also aware that when  a lender carried  out a credit check, the information it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report  would and it wasnt  
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday  and short  term 
lenders reported  to the same credit  reference  agencies. So, this might explain any differences 
between the information provided  by SLs credit  check and Mrs Ss actual situation.
I could see that Loan  1 was for £150  repayable by 13 weekly  repayments of £16.15. 
Id noted that Mrs Ss declared monthly disposable income was £876.
I thought that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. The 
repayments that Mrs S needed to make on Loan 1 were relatively  modest compared to the 
income that shed  declared to SL. And I didnt think the repayments  were so large that it was 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mrs S financial difficulty.
So given Mrs Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the 
time, and that this was her first loan with the lender,  I didnt think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for SL to have asked her for the amount  of information that would have  been  
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mrs S had provided  or the information SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
she was saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loan  1 to Mrs S.
Mrs S repaid  Loan 1 around a month  early.  But on the date of repayment she took out 
Loan 2 which was for double the amount of Loan  1. And although  the weekly  repayments 
had increased  slightly  to £19.38, they were  to be repaid over 26 weeks.  So she was 
committing to making  those repayments  over a far longer period than her previous loan. 
Nevertheless as Mrs Ss declared  monthly  disposable income was still £876,  I thought that 
the checks SL carried out before agreeing  Loan 2 were proportionate. The repayments  that 
Mrs S needed to make on Loan 2 were still relatively  modest compared to the income  that 
shed declared  to SL. And again I didnt think the repayments were  so large that it was 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mrs S financial difficulty.
So given Mrs Ss repayment amounts and what was apparent about her circumstances  at 
the time,  I didnt think it wouldve been  proportionate for SL to have asked her for the amount 
of information  that would have been  needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mrs S provided or the information SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  she was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loan  2 to Mrs S.
Loan 2 was repaid on the due date. Loan  3 was taken out almost nine months later.  
I thought it was reasonable for SL to treat Mrs S as a new customer  before Loan  3. Loan 3 
was for £600  to be repaid  by 39 weekly repayments  of £27.69.  I could also see that SL had 
Ref: DRN32477184added an additional  amount to Mrs Ss declared expenses  as a result  of what  it had seen on 
its credit  checks  and its expected level of expenditure based on Mrs Ss circumstances. 
So it had adjusted Mrs Ss disposable  income to £421.42. 
Overall, I thought that the checks SL had carried out before agreeing  Loan  3 were 
proportionate. The repayments that Mrs S needed  to make on Loan  3 were relatively modest 
compared to the income that shed  declared to SL. 
So given Mrs Ss repayment amounts, and what was apparent about her circumstances  at 
the time,  I didnt think it wouldve been  proportionate for SL to have asked her for the amount 
of information  that would have been  needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mrs S provided or the information SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  she was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loan  3 to Mrs S.
Id noted that there was a gap of around  25 months  between Mrs S repaying Loan 3 and 
taking out Loan 4. Id thought it was reasonable for SL to consider that gap in lending as an 
indication that Mrs S wasnt reliant on its loans. 
The loan amount was £500 and was repayable by six monthly payments of £158. SLs 
credit check  before Loan 4 had shown a defaulted  account on her credit file. I thought this 
might have suggested that Mrs S was facing financial problems and should have caused SL 
some concerns. 
Id also noted  that the information SL had provided  to this service  about Mrs Ss declared 
expenditure didnt include  an amount for her housing costs  or other expenditure. SL had said that 
Mrs S had only declared total expenditure of £90 before  Loan  4. But for previous loans Mrs S had 
declared total expenditure ranging from £600  to £624. I could see that SL had added a total 
additional amount of £498.13 in respect of safeguards and buffers to Mrs Ss declared expenses 
as a result  of what it had seen on its credit checks and its expected level of expenditure based  on 
Mrs Ss circumstances. But Id noted that this amount didnt include an amount  for housing costs.  
Id noted that Mrs Ss declared expenditure information showed rent of £600 paid before 
Loans 1 and 2, and rent of £450 paid before Loan 3. Id also noted  that Mrs Ss address had 
remained the same during  all her borrowing from SL. So I thought  that SL should have 
gathered more information from Mrs S about  her housing costs before Loan  4. And in view of 
the minimal expenditure declared by Mrs S in comparison with her previous  declared  
expenditure and the recent  default  shown in SLs credit check, Id thought  it would have 
been proportionate for SL to have gathered a more  comprehensive  view of Mrs Ss 
circumstances and sought some independent verification of this.
If it had done so, it would have seen,  as I had seen from Mrs Ss bank statements, that her 
monthly income was around £1,012 which was rather less than the £1,200 income  declared  by 
Mrs S. She was also still paying  monthly  rent of £600. So taking into account  the amount  of 
SLs own safeguards and buffers here for Mrs Ss other expenditure, I didnt think  SL should  
have decided that it was likely that Mrs S would be able to sustainably meet her repayments.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs S or SL my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  SL to put things right as follows.  
Ref: DRN32477185putting things right  what SL needed to do
with regard  to Loan 4, refund  all the interest  and charges that Mrs S had paid on Loan 4, 
and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 4;
apply the refunds referred to above  to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and pay 
any balance to Mrs S; and
remove all adverse  entries about Loan  4 from Mrs Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Mrs S responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it and had no further 
information to add.
SL responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed  with my recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Mrs S and SL have accepted  my provisional decision and given me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require SL to pay 
Mrs S some compensation and take the steps set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to: 
1.With regard to Loan 4, refund all the interest and charges that Mrs S had paid on Loan 
4, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
2.Write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 4;
3.Apply the refunds referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4  and 
pay any balance  to Mrs S; and
Ref: DRN324771864.Remove all adverse  entries about  Loan  4 from Mrs Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3247718