K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains about how Lloyds  Bank  PLC dealt with a current account.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  November  
2018, an extract of which is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I wont  repeat 
that information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  I 
invited Ms L and Lloyds  to let me have  any further comments  or evidence. 
Lloyds hasnt responded to my provisional decision.  Ms L responded at some length.  In 
summary, she said:
How is the compensation of £150  worked out and what  does it represent?  
Lloyds added her to the bank account without giving her financial advice  it didnt tell 
her how the account would  operate.  
Lloyds was a party to financial bullying and control.
She had no access to the account and the statements were not addressed  to her. 
Lloyds didnt respond to her queries  about statements or accessing  the account  
online. 
Her claim is for the two traceable  amounts paid into the account when she was a 
named account  holder.
She doesnt wish to claim her money  back through  divorce proceedings.
There are unanswered issues.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considerable  sympathy for Ms Ls position  and Ive looked carefully at what shes  said. 
But I remain  of the view that whilst Lloyds made  an error,  I cant establish that it caused 
Ms Ls loss. For the reasons I explained, I cant be satisfied that Ms L was exclusively 
entitled to some or all of the money in the account.   
In answer to Ms Ls question,  in its final response  letter, Lloyds arranged a compensation 
payment of £150  and said that it had given her poor customer service. I cant comment on 
how it reached that figure. I note that Ms L says that the cheque is now out of date. She may 
wish to return the cheque  to Lloyds and ask it to issue  a fresh  cheque. 
Lloyds wasnt obliged  to give Ms L financial advice when she asked for her name  to be 
added to the account. 
Its common ground that Ms L had no access to the account and that subsequent statements 
werent addressed  to her. That doesnt alter the outcome here.  
Ref: DRN32461102For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision,  Im unable  to determine entitlement to 
the money that was in the account. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
Lloyds to pay Ms L a sum equivalent  to the two amounts she paid into the account  when she 
was a named  account holder.
I appreciate that Ms L doesnt wish to resolve this matter in divorce proceedings. Thats  
entirely a matter for her. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms L but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  Ms Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019 .
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32461103Extract of provisional decision
complaint
Ms L complains about  how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with a current  account.
background
In August 2013, Ms L married. She says that in late November 2013, she visited a branch  of the bank 
with her husband  so that she could  be added as a joint account holder in relation  to his current  
account ending  668. She believed that the bank  had carried that out correctly.
On 20 December  2013, there was a credit of £256,392 to the account. Ms L says that this was 
from her solicitors and it was the proceeds of the sale of her house.  On 30 December 2013, there 
was a debit of £183,000. Ms L says that was repayment to her father  in relation  to money  he 
invested in her house.  On 10 January 2014, Ms L paid a cheque for £10,000 into the account.
Ms L says that she tried to access on-line banking  several  times but couldnt do so. She realised 
that statements were  addressed to her husband  alone, so she didnt open them.
In January 2016, Ms L separated from her husband. She found  a statement addressed to her 
husband which showed money had been transferred to another account. In January  2018,  Ms L 
wanted to close the account and she found out that she wasnt a joint account  holder.
In response to Ms Ls complaint, the bank said that its records show that it added  Ms L to the account 
on 10 January 2014. It said the statement dated 10 January 2014 shows Ms Ls name as an account  
holder. The bank said no other statements show Ms Ls name and the account profile doesnt  show 
her as a joint account holder. It said that the private banking manager couldnt recall any further 
details.
The bank said that it appears that it didnt fully complete the process  of adding Ms L to the account  in 
January 2014 and she didnt  remain  a joint account holder after 10 January 2014. It paid Ms L 
compensation of £150 in relation to her inconvenience.
Ms L wasnt happy with the banks response and wants compensation for at least  her losses of 
£83,392 (the amount  she paid into the account less the amount  paid to her father).
Our adjudicator thought that the bank had dealt with Ms Ls complaint fairly. She said that
she was satisfied that Ms L was named on the joint account  for a time. The adjudicator didnt think  
she could safely conclude that the losses Ms L claimed are a direct result of the banks actions. That 
was because, without getting evidence from Mr L, she couldnt determine  what  share  of the money  
belonged to Ms L. The adjudicator thought that a court was better  suited to deal with the matter.
Ref: DRN32461104Ms L didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said:
Her hard-earned money was paid into an account, which she believed was a joint 
account.
The banks process wasnt undertaken properly  and it is responsible for the safety  of her 
money.
The bank cant find evidence  to say what happened but thats not her problem.
She paid money  into the account  twice but she wouldnt have been able to access  that 
money, according to the bank.
If the bank had acted correctly, the account would still be a joint account.
The bank didnt give her customer service.
She is the victim of banking errors and she wants to be put back  into the position she 
wouldve been in if its error  hadnt  happened.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think that, on balance,  the bank made  an error 
but that it didnt cause Ms Ls loss. Ill explain  why.
The bank statement  dated  10 January 2014 for account 668 shows Ms L as a joint account  
holder. The next bank statement issued on 4 March  2014 doesnt  show Ms L as a joint account  
holder. So, sometime  between 10 January  2014 and 4 March 2014,  Ms L was no longer a joint 
account holder.
Ms Ls position is that she thought  the account remained in joint names. The bank says that it would 
require instructions  from both account  holders to remove one of the joint account  holders.  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Ms L instructed the bank to remove  her name from the joint account.
Its not entirely clear what happened here. The bank  says it appears that it didnt complete  the 
process of adding Ms L to the account.  A screen shot provided by the bank shows that Ms L was a 
joint account  holder of account 668 but also says:
Product Role: Expired 18 January 2014.
Considering everything, I think that its more  likely than not that the bank made  an error in either  
failing to complete the process of adding Ms L as a joint account holder or in incorrectly removing  
her from the account.
However, I cant say the banks  error caused Ms Ls loss. Ive seen nothing to show that Ms L 
tried to withdraw money from the account at any point  but couldnt  do so. On a joint account,  
either of the account holders can withdraw  money from the account. So, even if Ms L had 
remained a joint account  holder, Mr L could still have withdrawn  the money at any point, whether  
he had her permission to do so or not.
In order to show that the banks error caused  her loss, Ms L would need to establish she was 
exclusively entitled  to some or all of the money in the account. Its impossible for me to establish  this 
without hearing  from both account holders.
This service was set up to provide an informal  alternative to the courts for consumers  who have 
complaints about business actions. We decide cases with the minimum of formality.  We dont  have 
powers to compel  witnesses  to give evidence or to question witnesses under  oath. It seems to me 
that the rightful  ownership  of the money can now be decided more appropriately  by the court  in Ms 
Ls divorce proceedings.
I do appreciate that this has been a very stressful  matter  for Ms L but, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think that the banks error caused  her loss.
Ref: DRN32461105my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  Ms Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN3246110