K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Satsuma provided Mr A with a loan for £400 in March 2018. The loan was due to be repaid 
in three  monthly  instalments of £196.80. Mr A hasnt  repaid any part of the loan and so the 
loan balance  is still outstanding.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint and thought that Satsuma didnt irresponsibly 
lend to Mr A. Mr A through  his representative  disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Before Satsuma lent to Mr A, it says it asked  him about his monthly income and his normal  
living costs.  It also says it searched Mr As credit  file. From what  I can see, Mr A declared his 
income as £1,700 and his living costs as £230.  Satsuma has provided evidence  to show  that 
it added  a buffer of £233.12 and so it worked  out Mr As disposable income as £1,236.88.
Satsuma has provided the results  of its search of Mr As credit file and Mr A has also 
provided a copy of his credit report and from what I can see, Mr A had no defaults or 
bankruptcies recorded  on his file. But I can see that he was in payment arrears on two of his 
credit accounts.  
Given that this was Mr As first loan with Satsuma and Mr As repayments  were relatively 
small compared to his declared income, I think the checks went far enough. Theres nothing 
from the checks Satsuma  carried out that show Mr A couldnt  afford  the loan or that 
shouldve prompted  Satsuma to take its checks further. I accept that Mr A was in arrears 
with two of his credit accounts but I dont  think that on its own shouldve stopped Satsuma 
lending to him.
Ive seen evidence  that Mr A was gambling significantly and he was having other problems 
managing his money. But this wasnt something  Satsuma was aware  of at the time of the 
loan and I wouldnt have  expected it to find this out from what  I consider are proportionate 
checks in the circumstances. So I dont think Satsuma incorrectly  lent Mr A this loan.
Ref: DRN33651272Satsuma became aware about Mr As gambling in June 2018  and Ive considered  how it 
treated him when  it became  aware of his related  financial difficulties. I can see that it 
suspended his account for a period of time and it hasnt added further interest or charges 
since Mr A has been unable to repay the loan.  I think  that was a reasonable thing for 
Satsuma to do.
Ive also considered whether it would be fair for Satsuma to write off this loan but given what  
I know about Mr As circumstances and Satsumas  lending  decision, I dont think  this would 
be fair. As I said earlier,  Satsuma hasnt  irresponsibly lent this loan and although its likely to 
take Mr A sometime to repay it, I think there  are prospects of him repaying.
Id remind Satsuma of its duty treat Mr A sympathetically and positively and work with him to 
agree a repayment arrangement,  given  his circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3365127