K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Pearson Solicitors and 
Financial Advisers LLP (Pearson) to start a Personal Pension Plan (PPP). 
background to this complaint
Mrs N was awarded a share  (pension credit)  of her ex-husbands pension  plan as part of 
their divorce settlement. Her ex-husbands pension  provider,  Provider  A, was unable to 
arrange an internal transfer to move the value of the pension credit  to a separate plan in      
Mrs Ns name. So she was required to transfer the pension credit to a different provider. 
Mrs N contacted Pearson for advice. On 18 July 2017 Pearson recommended she start a 
new PPP with Provider B to receive  the pension credit. She accepted  the recommendation. 
On 15 January 2018 Provider A transferred £94,635.40, representing  the value of the 
pension credit, to Provider B. In line with Pearsons recommendation  of 18 July 2017, 
Provider B invested  this money in its cash fund.
Once Pearson knew that Provider B had received the pension credit, it arranged to meet       
Mrs N to discuss and agree the investment  strategy for her PPP. That meeting happened on 
26 January 2018.  Mrs N decided that flexi-access  drawdown was her preferred income 
option. But she was unsure about her income and lump sum needs  over the short,  medium  
and long term. This uncertainty meant Pearson  was unable to recommend an appropriate 
investment strategy. It was agreed  Mrs N would take the time to consider her income  and 
lump sum needs before getting back in touch with Pearson.
Pearson didnt  hear from Mrs N again until 25 January 2019 when she called  to complain 
about the charges deducted from her PPP after she had received a letter from Provider  B. 
She complained that Pearson  didnt  tell her Provider  B would deduct fund charges. She also 
complained about the investment performance of her PPP.  She thought  Pearson  should 
have advised  her to invest the value of her PPP in real assets rather than in Provider Bs 
cash fund. She felt the failure to do this had resulted in a financial loss. To put things right, 
she wanted the pension credit returned  to a new plan with Provider A along with 
compensation to cover  any financial loss suffered.
Pearson didnt  accept Mrs Ns complaint.  It told her, in summary, that:
all charges were disclosed multiple  times at the time of its recommendation for 
Provider Bs PPP and its cash  fund;
the  cash fund was recommended as a temporary home  for the pension  credit until 
such time as an appropriate  investment strategy could be agreed and implemented;
it conducted annual  visits and was contactable at any time if she had concerns; 
following the meeting on 26 January 2018, she had failed to get back in touch  to 
confirm her income and lump sum needs, meaning it was unable to recommend  an 
appropriate investment strategy   as a result, she had remained invested in the cash 
fund; and
Ref: DRN34533792had the PPP been invested  in real assets, as suggested, it would have fallen in value 
compared to the actual financial  position  based on investment in the cash  fund
Mrs N didnt accept Pearsons  conclusion and contacted us. She told us, in summary, that:
Pearsons recommendation  for the cash fund was unsuitable because her PPP had 
reduced in value from about £95,000  to £93,000;
Pearson had failed to monitor the investment performance of her PPP;
she wanted to leave the pension  credit with Provider A but Pearson didnt offer that 
option;
Pearson didnt  offer a self-invested  personal  pension (SIPP);
she was concerned the advice offered by Pearson was restricted to Provider B 
products and services  only because  the financial adviser was previously employed 
by that provider; and
Pearson had charged her about £2,000 in fees which she considered  to be unfair 
bearing in mind the investment performance of her PPP
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding this complaint because she was satisfied the 
recommendation for the PPP and cash fund was suitable based  on Mrs Ns recorded 
circumstances. Our investigator  was also satisfied that the charges associated with the 
recommendation had been adequately  disclosed to Mrs N. 
Mrs N disagreed with our investigators opinion. She provided  substantial additional 
comments, summarised as follows:
she knew the charges  were  confirmed in the documents provided by Pearson  but she 
didnt have time to read the information;
Pearson failed  to provide an adequate  service  in exchange for the charges levied;
Pearson didnt  seek her permission to recommend  Provider B and didnt give her a 
range of providers  to choose from; 
Pearsons financial adviser inappropriately recommended a product from his previous 
employer;
Provider Bs fund management charges were never discussed or agreed;
other providers have lower fund management  charges;
the recommended cash fund was inconsistent with her medium risk profile;  
she never asked for the pension credit to be invested in a cash fund and was relying 
on Pearson to recommend  a suitable fund;
Ref: DRN34533793she had spoken  to Provider  B and other providers and all agreed  that Pearsons  
recommendation was unsuitable;
she wasnt unemployed as stated by Pearson  rather she has chosen not to work 
and is living off her savings; 
her PPP was set up with an incorrect retirement age of 75;
she was never advised by Pearson  of the ability to draw,  vary and stop income  
payments from her PPP; and
Pearsons version of events is fabricated nonsense
Since our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, this complaint has been  
referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Over the past several  months, Mrs Ns complaint  has evolved  to include additional elements 
not included in her initial  complaint to Pearson. This has resulted in the issues in front of me 
now being substantially  different to those considered by Pearson.  I havent asked Pearson to 
comment on the additional issues raised by Mrs N because I dont think any response it 
might make would change my opinion  on the outcome of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt,  Ive read and considered the whole file. Ive confined my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific  point made its 
not because Ive not thought about it or missed  it, but because  I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the wider  
context of the complaint thats been made.
In my view, Mrs Ns complaint broadly covers  three  main issues,  as follows:  suitability of the 
PPP, suitability of the cash fund and disclosure  of charges. Ive covered  these  issues under 
separate headings below to make my findings easier to follow.
Was the PPP recommended by Pearson  suitable?
The starting point  is to consider the circumstances  that led to the recommendation for the 
PPP at the centre of this complaint. Mrs N was awarded a pension credit as part of her 
divorce settlement.  She believes the pension credit could have been transferred to a new 
plan with Provider A. This isnt true. The contemporaneous  evidence  confirms Provider A 
was unable to arrange an internal transfer. So Mrs N was compelled  to transfer the value of 
the pension credit to a different provider.
On 18 July 2017 Pearson issued its Financial Planning Report (the Report)  to Mrs N setting  
out its recommendation for a new PPP with Provider  B. Amongst  other things, the Report  
confirmed that:
Ref: DRN34533794Pearson operates as an independent  financial adviser, meaning it could recommend 
all types of retail investment products and pension products from firms across the 
market without restriction  so it is was not restricted, as Mrs N believes;
Pearson recommended Provider  B to accept the pension credit based  on its 
assessment of past investment  performance, financial strength, customer  service  
and charging structure;
Mrs N was aged 60 and planned  to retire  at 66 to coincide with her state pension age 
 but she could take benefits from the PPP any time from age 55; 
she didnt have  any specific  income or capital objectives in relation to the pension 
credit awarded to her; and
a cash fund was recommended to reflect the uncertainty concerning  when the 
transfer from Provider A would be received and what  Mrs Ns future circumstances 
would be at that point in time
Mrs N signed the Report  to confirm she understood and accepted the recommendation. By 
accepting the recommendation, she agreed that the pension credit would be transferred  to 
Provider B and invested in its cash fund. So Im satisfied she agreed for the PPP to be set 
up with Provider B despite what she now says.
Mrs N says Pearson was conflicted because the adviser who provided  the recommendation 
previously worked for Provider B. She thinks this is the reason he didnt  provide  a list of 
providers for her to choose from. I dont think this is relevant. I say this because an adviser 
recommending a product or service provided by a previous employer doesnt automatically 
transform that product  into an unsuitable one.
What matters is if the product recommended was suitable based on Mrs Ns circumstances. I 
think the recommended PPP with Provider  B was a suitable product to accept the pension 
credit. There  were of course many other suitable providers and products including SIPPs.  
But this doesnt  mean the PPP recommended  by Pearson was unsuitable.
Was the cash fund recommended by Pearson  suitable?
The sharing  of pension rights as part of a divorce settlement is a complex  matter.  Due to the 
nature of this process, it was uncertain, in July 2017,  when Provider A would be able to 
transfer the pension credit to Provider  B. Pearson  had no control over when the transfer 
would be completed.  This meant  Pearson couldnt  reasonably foresee what Mrs Ns future 
income and lump sum needs  might  be and how her PPP should be invested  to reflect  this. In 
connection with this, Pearson stated  in the Report:  
We discussed the benefit of diversified portfolios and asset allocation, we will 
complete a risk questionnaire in order to establish your Attitude to risk and capacity 
for loss once  the sharing  order has been  implemented.
It was for this reason Pearson recommended  the pension credit initially  be invested  in the 
cash fund once Provider B received  it. The evidence  from July 2017 clearly shows that it was 
Pearsons intention  to meet again with Mrs N after Provider B had received the pension 
credit so that it could  then determine  her risk profile  and implement a proper investment 
strategy. 
Ref: DRN34533795In my view, Pearsons approach was sensible. I think it would  have been  inappropriate for 
Pearson to have recommended in July 2017 an investment strategy  that would have 
immediately exposed the pension credit to real assets upon  receipt by Provider  B when  
Pearson didnt  know when the transfer would be completed or what  Mrs Ns future 
circumstances would  be at that point in time.
So I cant agree  that Pearsons recommendation for the cash  fund was unsuitable.
Provider B received the pension credit on 15 January 2018. Pearson met Mrs N nine 
working days later on 26 January 2018. I think this is a reasonable timescale to arrange a 
meeting. At that meeting, Pearson  established Mrs N as having a Lowest medium  risk 
profile but it was unable  to recommend an investment strategy because she was unsure 
about her future income and lump  sum needs.  It was agreed she would take the time to 
consider this before getting back in touch with Pearson. 
However, Mrs N didnt  get back in touch  with Pearson. This meant  her PPP remained 
invested in the cash fund.  I asked Mrs N why she didnt get back  in touch with Pearson as 
agreed on 26 January  2018. She told me she understood that she was meant to get back in 
touch with Pearson but didnt get round to it because she had a lot going on in her life 
including:
starting a new job
making frequent visits to her dentist  and vet; and
caring for her elderly uncle and grandson
I do have sympathy for Mrs N and can understand that her busy life meant she was unable 
to get back in touch  with Pearson until 12 months later in January 2019. But I dont think 
Pearson should be held responsible for this delay or any financial loss that might have 
resulted from Mrs N remaining invested in the cash fund compared to investing in different 
investment fund(s).  
Were the charges adequately disclosed to Mrs N?
Mrs N doesnt understand  why her PPP has fallen in value while  invested  in a cash  fund. 
The pension credit of £94,635.40 was transferred to the PPP on 15 January 2018.  As at                
6 August 2019,  the value  was £93,847.12. Despite being invested  in a cash fund, the value  
of Mrs Ns PPP has fallen in value  mainly as a result  of Pearsons and Provider Bs charges 
being deducted. I understand that since making this complaint,  Mrs N has instructed 
Provider B to stop deducting Pearsons charges from her PPP.
The Report confirmed  the charges in connection with the recommendation as follows:
Under the section  titled Investment Strategy  Funds the Report  confirmed the cash fund 
management fee as follows (the relevant fund fact sheet was enclosed with the Report):
                      
Ref: DRN34533796Based on the information Pearson provided to Mrs N, Im satisfied that she was made 
adequately aware of the charges associated with its recommendation.
In response to our investigators opinion, Mrs N said she knew  the charges were confirmed 
in the documents provided by Pearson  but she didnt  have  time to read the information.  I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Pearson  responsible for Mrs N choosing not to read the 
information provided to her. She had a responsibility  to read the information  and satisfy 
herself that she understood the basis of the recommendation including  the charges  involved.
Conclusion
I havent seen  any evidence that Pearson made  an error  or treated Mrs N unfairly. Or that 
the documents provided to me by Pearson  arent  a true reflection of what was discussed and 
agreed with Mrs N. So I cant  agree Pearsons  version of events is fabricated  nonsense.
I think Pearsons recommendation for Provider  Bs PPP and its cash  fund was suitable in the 
circumstances for the reasons explained  above. I dont think Pearson  should be held 
responsible for Mrs Ns failure to get back  in touch with it after the meeting on                        
26 January 2018  which  resulted in her PPP remaining invested in the cash fund.
So overall, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Pearson  to pay Mrs N compensation or to take any other action in response  to this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3453379