K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that esure  Insurance Limited didnt pay a fair market value for his car. 
Mr W made a claim under his car insurance policy when  his car was stolen.  
background
Mr W reported the theft of his car on 31 May 2018  to his insurer, esure.  It offered Mr W a 
market value settlement  which he rejected. So in August  2018  esure  increased  the 
settlement sum to £30,000.  
Mr W said it was too low and believed esure hadnt  included the extras attached to his car in 
its valuation. He said he would accept £32,000.  Mr W provided examples of adverts for 
similar cars with a higher  sale price   and he provided information from a manufacturer  
dealership of guide prices for a car similar  to his stolen one. Mr W also obtained a valuation 
from one of the main  motor trade  guides  online. Its valuation came  to £32,340. 
Our investigator thought esures  valuation had been  reached reasonably.  But Mr W didnt 
agree. He raised a number of new complaints which the investigator passed to esure  to 
investigate. 
Mr W believes the valuation esure has paid him is unfair. So hed like an ombudsman to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we can look a whether an insurer  reached  its valuation in a 
reasonable way  and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ws policy with esure  says the most it will pay in the event  of a claim is the market value 
of his car at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as the cost of replacing the 
car with one of a similar make, model, year,  mileage  and condition based on market prices 
at the time of the loss.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the main  motor trade 
guides are a reliable  way to decide a valuation as they can provide average  values  based  on 
likely selling prices for the same  make, model, specification, age, condition  and mileage of a 
car. We find advertised prices  less reliable as they vary widely  and tend to have a margin  
built in to negotiate the price downward.  
Mr W provided a valuation  he obtained  from one of the main motor trade guides. This 
valuation came to £32,340 and was based  on his car having  additional features. However,  
the additional features option Mr W chose was different  to the actual  extras attached to 
Mr Ws car. 
Mr W explained that the reason for this was because this was the only option he could 
choose. esure also obtained  a valuation from the same trade guide, but their valuation  came 
to £30,072. 
Ref: DRN36208062Mr W feels he has been prejudiced because this particular trade guide only provides a 
valuation within three months of the date of loss. So our investigator couldnt obtain  her own 
valuation by the time she investigated the complaint  as it was over three months  from the 
date of the loss. 
However, the investigator was able to check against the other main motor trade guides  as 
well as esures own valuation from the same  guide  Mr W used. And this is what we would  
usually do rather than rely on just one. We also think its reasonable for an insurer  to look at 
all of the available guides. 
One of the guides was out of kilter  with the others as its valuation was much lower. Where  
this happens,  we dont think its fair to include it when deciding  an average  valuation from all 
of the available guides. This is what esure did so I think its approach  was reasonable here.  
However, as a reference it gave a second hand  value of £365 for the navigation extras  
Mr Ws car had. It didnt  however give any second  hand valuation for the reversing camera. 
The remaining  guides  we checked gave valuations of £29,575 and £30,100 for a car similar 
to Mr Ws. As esure paid Mr W £30,000  as the market value settlement, this was within  the 
range of the remaining guides. The valuation provided by Mr W included  different featured 
extras to his car. So I dont think I can fairly rely on it. Taking  into account all of the 
information available,  I dont think Mr W has been prejudiced by this service  not being able 
to obtain a valuation from the guide  Mr W obtained  his valuation from.
I understand Mr W will be disappointed, But I think esure reached its valuation reasonably 
and in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3620806