K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Grove & Dean Ltd are asking for payment of premium on a buildings  
insurance policy several months after it was taken out.
background
In October  2018 Mr S approached Grove  & Dean, who are an insurance broker,  to organise  
a buildings  and contents insurance policy for him. A policy was quoted with an underwriter, 
policy documents were  produced, and Mr S paid the premium  with his credit  card.  There  was 
misunderstanding about the construction type of Mr Ss property which  meant the 
underwriter wouldnt accept the policy, so it was cancelled, and the premium was refunded.  
After clarifying the misunderstanding about  property construction type,  an annual policy was 
agreed. New documents were issued, and the policy went  into force in mid-November. 
However, due to an administration error by Grove & Dean payment for policy was not taken.
In March 2019 Grove & Dean realised payment had not been made for the policy and 
contacted Mr S asking  for payment. Mr S complained saying he didnt want  to pay as he felt 
he had been uninsured  for the last five months.  However, he did offer a pro rata payment to 
cover the remaining seven months  of the policy. Grove & Dean confirmed Mr S was insured 
for the first five months as the policy was in force and asked  for the full payment covering the 
12 months. 
Mr S remained unhappy  so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. He acknowledged there  had been  some 
administration errors  which delayed the request for payment. He also told Mr S that if thered 
been a claim, he thought it wouldve been  honoured.  Overall,  he thought Grove  & Dean have 
acted fairly  in asking  for full payment of the premium. Mr S, whilst agreeing the facts are not 
in dispute, didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint  has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
There doesnt seem any doubt that Mr S wanted  the insurance  cover.  A policy was set up as 
Mr S wanted, albeit with a delay caused by some confusion about the property construction  
type. And the documents  show the policy was went into force  in mid-November  2018.  For 
this policy  a premium payment is due. This payment  hasnt been made. 
Grove & Dean  made an error by not taking the payment at the right time. This isnt in doubt.
Its clear there was some confusion when the policy was originally taken  out. Grove & Dean 
shouldve asked for payment at that time,  but they didnt. This is frustrating for Mr S, which I 
understand, but this doesnt  mean a payment isnt due for the policy  thats been in force.
In order to say that Mr S didnt have to pay for the policy Id need to be persuaded that no 
benefit was derived. But this isnt the case  as the documentation shows the policy  was in 
force from mid November  2018 which is what Mr S wanted. This means that Mr Ss property 
was on risk with the underwriter meaning cover  has been provided.
Ref: DRN30044182In order to say that Mr S is due some kind of compensation for the error Id need to be 
persuaded that he was put to a level of trouble and upset beyond that of a minor 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied that isnt the case. When Grove  & Dean realised the 
payment hadnt  been taken, they contacted  Mr S asking  for the premium  to be paid. Im sure 
this annoying  for Mr S but Ive seen no evidence he was unable to pay, or that the request 
caused him financial difficulty. Had this been  the case I wouldve expected  Grove & Dean do 
a bit more. As it stands  theres an outstanding payment which  hasnt been made. Im 
satisfied Grove & Dean have acted fairly and reasonably in asking for the payment, and in 
the ways theyve done so.
Im satisfied its fair for Grove & Dean  to ask Mr S for payment for the policy that he 
requested, and which has been in force and providing cover since  mid-November  2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I not do uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3004418