K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has recorded incorrect  information  on his 
CreditWise credit report, showing he missed two payments. 
background
Mr H has a credit card account with Capital  One.  He also uses Capital Ones own credit 
report service  CreditWise.  CreditWise collects information from an external credit agency, 
Agency A. 
In March 2018 Mr H complained to Capital One that his CreditWise  credit report was 
reporting he had missed payments in the last two months. Mr H believed  this information to 
be wrong so he asked for it to be corrected and to be paid compensation. Mr H said his 
credit reports from other credit reference agencies, including Agency As own report,  were  
not showing these  missed payments. 
Capital One said it hadnt done  anything wrong and that it must  be the case that Mr H had 
missed a payment  on another  account. Mr H believed that Capital One had given incorrect 
information about the missed payments and brought his complaint to this service.   
The investigator found that Mr H had successfully  made payments to his Capital One card 
over the six month period.  She also could see that Capital One had provided this information  
to Agency A, who had then put this information  into the CreditWise report. She said she 
couldnt tell where  the missed payments had come  from without Mr H raising complaints with 
his other  creditors. 
Mr H sent over a fresh view of his CreditWise report which still indicated he had missed 
payments in the last six months. He maintained Capital One had given incorrect information. 
The investigator revised her view and asked Capital One to explain why the CreditWise 
report was showing missed payments when  the report from Agency  A was not reporting any 
missed payments. 
The screen shot of the report showed an arrow next to the missing  payments notification.  
Through the investigator Capital One asked Mr H to expand the view of the report by clicking 
on the arrows,  to identify which financial provider was reporting the missed payments. Mr H 
seemed unable to do this and asked for a final decision. 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence  I issued  a provisional decision to Mr H and Capital One.  In 
this decision I said as follows:
The data CreditWise reports  comes  from Agency A. The evidence  provided by Mr H 
does suggest  that he has missed  payments.  But its not clear to me which account 
these missed payments  relate to. As Capital One administers the CreditWise service 
Mr H has assumed they relate to his Capital One credit card account. 
I can see that Mr H has not missed any payments to his Capital One credit card and 
that Capital One has provided correct information to Agency A regarding  this 
account. So Im satisfied that there  isnt an error in the reporting of information to 
Agency A.  
Ref: DRN39240622So, it would appear that there is either  an error with the Capital One data from 
Agency A to CreditWise or the missed payments notification relates to a different 
account. 
Capital One initially  said that it doesnt  have access to Mr Hs CreditWise reports. It 
said the CreditWise website gives a number for customers to call which routes 
through to the customer relations team. Customers then complete a form which  is 
sent to Agency A. Agency A would then send a full report to the customer along with 
a letter  to advise  that any further queries would be dealt  with by Agency A. Mr H was 
eventually sent a copy of the full Agency A report.  There is no indication specifically 
of any missed payments  on this full report.  
The only way to see what account was reporting  the missed  payments on CreditWise  
was for Mr H to expand the drop down box on his CreditWise reports. Its not clear  to 
me why Mr H hasnt done this as the CreditWise  service does allow a customer  to 
expand the information. Its possible he is not able to or doesnt know how. 
I asked Capital One again to open  and access Mr Hs CreditWise  file to see what 
detail is behind the missing payments. Capital One directed the query to the 
CreditWise team. Having  done so it said that CreditWise uses  a Q marker to flag 
that users  have accounts in arrears or missed payments. At the time of Mr Hs 
complaint the most recent information CreditWise had was from the 22 March, 
Agency A data.  On this set of data Mr H is recorded  as having had a current account 
with a separate bank, Bank  N, with a previous query  Q status in the previous six 
months. Capital One said this triggered  CreditWise to display that Mr H has had 
missed payments in the past six months because it includes  queries in its missed  
payments metric. 
Ive looked at Mr Hs credit file from Agency A and there is a query  marker against  
Bank N during  the period of this complaint. I asked Mr H if he recalled his account 
with Bank  N having  a query on it but I did not receive a response. 
Its not my role to comment  on a business process,  thats the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  So Im not able to decide whether its right or not that Capital 
Ones CreditWise  includes queries  as part of its missed payments metric. But Im 
satisfied with the explanation Capital One has provided regarding this. Im also 
satisfied that correct information  has been reported.  
Capital One has said that it wasnt able to provide  the information to Mr H at first 
because its front line staff do not have access to users CreditWise  accounts and Mr 
H wouldve had access by clicking on the drop down  menu. As its not clear to me 
why he didnt or couldnt do this I cant fairly  hold Capital  One responsible. 
If Mr H is still concerned  about his credit  file it would be helpful for him to contact 
Bank N to identify the reason for the query marker. 
Subject to any further information from either party my provisional decision was that Capital 
One hadnt done anything  wrong  and didnt  need  to do anything  further.  
Capital One accepted my decision.  Mr H did not respond.  
Ref: DRN39240623my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional decision was sent to Mr H but he hasnt responded. Capital One has 
accepted it. So I see no reason to depart from its conclusion. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3924062