K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  
when he made a claim on his landlord  home  emergency insurance policy.
All references to Aviva  include its agents.  
background
Mr S made a claim to Aviva when there was no hot water at his tenanted property.  An 
engineer attended and said there was a problem with the cylinder but Aviva said this wasnt  
covered under the policy. 
Mr S wasnt  happy about this and called Aviva. He said the call lasted about half an hour and 
though the agent  said he wasnt covered  she wasnt able to tell him where in the policy  it 
said so. Aviva then agreed  to send another engineer to carry out the repairs.  
Another engineer  attended two days later and ordered the parts  that were necessary for the 
repairs. The repair  was done three  days later but as this didnt resolve the issue  another 
engineer attended two days  after that and replaced  a timer- this completed the repairs.  
Mr S wasnt  happy about being told he wasnt covered originally and also about the amount 
of time it took to complete  the repairs and the amount of time he had to spend dealing  with 
the matter either over the phone  or on email. He also said that some  of the engineers  that 
attended the property werent qualified to do the job and this caused delays.
Aviva accepted that it had given Mr S incorrect information and paid him £100 in 
compensation. Mr S didnt  think this was enough  and thought  £250 would be more 
appropriate but Aviva didnt  agree. 
Mr S then complained to us but our investigator  thought Avivas offer was fair in the 
circumstances. Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He said such low 
awards wouldnt deter Aviva from doing this to other customers in the future and that if he 
hadnt disagreed with Avivas initial rejection of the claim  he wouldve been substantially  out 
of pocket.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
As far as I can see there is no dispute in relation to the timeline  provided  by Mr S or in 
relation to the fact that he was initially given incorrect information as to whether he was 
covered or not. So I dont propose  to go over those  facts again in this decision. So what I will 
look at is the level of compensation.
Mr S said that the award we make  has to discourage Aviva from treating other customers 
like it treated him and also it should encourage it to appropriately train its staff so such  
mistakes arent made in the future. 
Ref: DRN32462102I appreciate that Mr S has found the situation frustrating and that he had to spend some  time 
on the phone to Aviva before it agreed  to cover him- which he says he shouldnt  have had to 
do. But I must explain that our compensation awards arent there to punish businesses  but to 
reflect the amount  of distress and inconvenience  suffered  by the consumer. So though I 
appreciate Mr S found his dealings with Aviva  frustrating, the award  I will make  is purely  to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he suffered on this particular occasion. 
Also our role is to deal with individual complaints and so I cant  consider what  may happen  in 
future to other customers, in this decision.  The role of regulating  businesses  is the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCAs) not ours. 
From what  Ive seen Mr S had to spend time on the phone to Aviva and also that he had 
sent a number of emails  to it and to his property agent when arranging the repairs.  Some of 
these calls/emails would have been  necessary  regardless  of whether Aviva  made  mistakes  
or not i.e. Mr S would have had to make some arrangements with his tenant and the 
property agent  in any event. So I cant take those into account when awarding 
compensation. And I also note that after the initial repair was done  Aviva says it warned  
Mr S/his  agent that the timer may need  to be replaced and that this wouldnt be apparent 
until later.  When Mr S reported  this, Aviva attended the same day and replaced the timer. So 
I dont think that last visit could have been  avoided.
What I also cannot  take into account  is the level of inconvenience  suffered by Mr Ss tenant- 
because the tenant isnt the policyholder so Aviva doesnt have any obligation to 
compensate him for the distress he suffered. This also means I have no power to award any 
compensation to the tenant.  
But, I note that Mr S was given incorrect advice and had to spend about thirty minutes on the 
phone to convince Aviva  he was covered. And I also note that there were some  wasted 
appointments for example  when the first engineer  was told by Aviva the claim wasnt  
covered and when  another  engineer was due to attend who wasnt qualified to carry out the 
repair. In the circumstances, I think Avivas offer of £100  compensation  is fair and 
reasonable as its in line with awards  I would  make in cases  of similar seriousness.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3246210