K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a battery  he has been  financing through an agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited  (RCI)  has not been of satisfactory quality and that the 
agreement was mis-sold to him.
background
Mr H took receipt of a new electric  van in June 2014  the van came with a leased battery and 
Mr H funded the battery separately through a hire agreement with RCI.
When he first drove the van he says he was happy with the range he was achieving which 
was about 94 miles.  In the winter of 2014  the range dropped, as Mr H says he was warned it 
would, to about 74 miles. But Mr H was disappointed that the range continued  to fall over the 
years and he now says he can only achieve  56 miles. In 2017  he asked the dealership to 
test the battery  capacity  but they said the battery was fine.
Mr H explained to RCI that he had been persuaded to take out the hire agreement because  
it allowed  him to exchange  the battery if its capacity  dropped below 75%. He said the 
dealership had performed a state  of health  check (SoH) and that it was this report  on the 
battery that they relied upon to suggest the batterys condition  was acceptable. He said a 
SoH check  wasnt  the same as a capacity test and that, as it appeared a capacity test was 
not available,  he could not benefit  from the replacement policy  within his hire contract. He 
therefore said the agreement had been mis-sold to him as if hed known this from the 
beginning he would  not have proceeded with it.
RCI contacted  the dealership who confirmed that the battery was charging at 100% and they 
therefore explained that the battery didnt meet the criteria for replacement which was that it 
should have 75% of its original capacity. 
So Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She 
noted that the battery was now four years  old and Mr H had been able to complete 40,000  
miles using  it. She said this suggested it was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to 
Mr H. She said Mr H would need  to demonstrate that the battery wasnt  at the threshold  and 
she had not seen evidence of that as the tests completed by the dealership suggested 
otherwise. So she didnt think RCI needed  to take any further action.
Mr H therefore arranged  a further  battery test at the dealership. The test confirmed that the 
batteries SoH was 81.8% and also mentioned that the warranty  SoH was 75%.  Mr H said 
that yet again,  the dealership had failed to perform  a capacity  test and it was only under this 
test that he would be allowed to reject the battery if it didnt meet the capacity threshold. He 
provided a report from a community interest  company specialising  in electric vehicles who 
explained the two tests  were different. He said hed provided evidence that the van was no 
longer achieving the requisite range when he provided a picture of the dashboard 
information panel and he said he should  therefore  be allowed to reject  the battery and have 
it replaced.
Our adjudicator still didnt  agree with Mr H. She noted that on-line information  suggested  the 
SoH test included a threshold  test but regardless she didnt think shed been provided with 
sufficient evidence that the battery  was not of an acceptable standard.
Mr H still disagreed and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN37575702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired  his battery under a hire agreement.  This is a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the goods  should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent  then RCI, who are also the supplier of the 
goods, are responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account 
any description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this the other relevant  circumstances  would likely include things like the age, 
mileage covered and environmental conditions. I note here that the battery was new and the 
mileage was extended. Under  the new agreement Mr H had a mileage limit of 45,000 which  
he fully utilised according to the most  recent job cards supplied by the dealership. The van 
was being used in Scotland for farm deliveries and I think its reasonable to suggest ambient 
temperatures would  be lower than normal and battery range would be reduced. 
The relevant  law also says that the goods  should  not have been  misrepresented to Mr H. If 
they were and if the misrepresentation  led Mr H to form a contract  with RCI that he would not 
otherwise have agreed to then, again,  Id ask RCI to take some further action.
was the battery  of satisfactory quality?
RCIs responsibility for the quality of the battery is for its quality when supplied. Mr H has 
explained that, in the first year at least, he was satisfied  with the batterys  performance  so I 
dont think theres evidence there was anything wrong with it when it was supplied.
But the relevant  legislation also says that the goods  should be suitably durable. So Ive 
considered whether there is evidence they are not.
Helpfully, the finance agreement helps  us to establish how durable the battery  should  be. It 
explains that:
9.4 We shall provide  you with a Battery that has a sufficient charging capacity  the 
charging threshold is a Battery capacity of at least 75% of the batterys original capacity (the 
Charging Threshold). 
Ref: DRN37575703Mr H says that RCI have been unable to clarify  if the charging threshold has been breached  
as theyve only provided a SoH check.
I can see that he has provided a little evidence to support his argument. Ive seen  a letter  
from a community interest  company specialising in electric vehicles. That explains that SoH 
is not the same as capacity. Ive also seen a picture of Mr Hs van dashboard that suggests 
the mileage range is limited but doesnt show thats  directly after a charge.
Ive reviewed the battery report that was provided  by the dealership  in 2019. That suggests  
the SoH is 81.8% and Ive noticed  that it refers to Warranty SoH  were there appears from 
the report to be a requirement  of 75%.  I think its reasonable  to suggest that if the warranty 
SoH wasnt  reached the battery could be considered unsatisfactory   but that doesnt seem 
to be the case  here.
Ive not seen a report  that explicitly explains that the battery is not functioning correctly and I 
am not persuaded that theres  therefore  sufficient evidence its of unsatisfactory  durability or 
was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
was the deal misrepresented?
Mr H says that the deal was misrepresented  to him because if hed know there  wasnt  a test 
for charging threshold he would not have proceeded with the hire.
Im not persuaded that means the deal was misrepresented. The terms of the contract didnt 
prohibit the exchange of the battery  if it was shown  to be defective. They  said:
9.2 We shall supply you with a Battery that is in good working condition and we shall 
replace or repair any defective battery
I think, in those circumstances, its clear  that if the charging threshold test was ambiguous, 
as Mr H says it is here, then a report that clarified  the battery was not in good working order 
may suffice.  
Mr H hasnt provided such a report and the report that is available, that was commissioned in 
2019, says the battery is in satisfactory health.  Im therefore not persuaded to ask RCI to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3757570