K822xcomplaint
Miss K has complained  about  the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled
a claim under her contents insurance policy  after her flat was subject to an escape of water.
background 
In August  2018,  Miss Ks council-owned flat was damaged after an escape of water  from the
water tank in the loft. The escape  of water caused  the ceilings to collapse in the bedroom
and living  room. The council  arranged for Miss K to move  to alternative accommodation. It
also carried out a test which showed  that the ceilings contained  asbestos.
Miss K made a claim to RSA for her damaged contents. She also told RSA that the ceilings
had been found to contain asbestos.  Miss K explained to RSA that she suffered from
obsessive compulsive  disorder (OCD) and that, due to her condition, she thought  that she
may be unable to re-use any of her contents  which had potentially been  exposed to
asbestos.
RSA arranged for its specialist asbestos contractor (which Ill call Z) to attend the property
and review Miss Ks contents. However, Z was unable to do this until September  2018, some
five or six weeks after the escape of water occurred.
On attending the property,  Z listed and disposed of those  items which  it decided  were
damaged beyond economic repair (BER) by the asbestos. Items which it decided could be
cleaned on-site, or which hadnt been  exposed to the asbestos, were brought  out of the
property and passed to another RSA contractor (which Ill call Y). Y then took the clothing
items to its storage facility and the non-clothing items to Miss Ks storage facility,  for which  
RSA agreed to cover the cost.
Miss K observed Z from a neighbours property while it was carrying out this work. She
raised concerns  with RSA about the attitude of Zs workers towards her and about the
thoroughness of the decontamination.
To allay Miss Ks concerns about the thoroughness of the decontamination  process,  RSA
arranged for Z to carry out random testing of the non-clothing contents  which  had been 
removed to Miss Ks storage. Z did this and no asbestos was found in any of the 40 samples
which underwent  testing.
Miss K wanted all her clothing to be declared BER. However, RSA was satisfied that the
clothing which had been removed from the flat simply needed to undergo laundering. In
November 2018,  it offered  £3,100  to cover the cost of service washes for the entire amount
of stored  clothing. In December 2018, it moved  the items  to Miss Ks storage facility so she
could decide what to do with them.
Miss K was unhappy  with RSAs handling  of the claim, particularly the decontamination
process, and its settlement offer for both her clothing and non-clothing items. She 
complained to it and said her lack of confidence in the decontamination process meant  she 
felt unable to use again the £25,000  worth of clothing items  and £19,000 worth  of non-
clothing items which RSA had deemed  salvageable.
RSA issued its final response to the complaint in March 2019. It acknowledged that Miss K
had concerns about accepting back her belongings but pointed  out that Z had carried  out
Ref: DRN35377092random testing to support  that the salvaged items  were uncontaminated  by asbestos  and
explained that it couldnt simply write off these  items. It offered a settlement of £3,159 in
respect of the items which were BER as a result of the insured event. It offered a further
£1,316 to allow Miss K to replace items which were damaged by its contractors. In respect of
the clothing items which had been deemed salvageable, it maintained that its settlement
offer of £3,100 was fair. It agreed  to continue paying  for storage costs until the end of
April 2019, to allow Miss K to decide whether she wanted the items back or not. It
acknowledged, however, that Miss K had received poor service from its contractors,
particularly Z, and offered  £500 compensation for this.
Miss K was unhappy  at RSAs response. She referred her complaint to us. She made  the 
following points:
Ys representative who was present at the time the flat was emptied had confirmed to
RSA that in his opinion  Z hadnt  properly  decontaminated  items and furthermore had
mixed together  wet and dry clothing;
the decontamination couldnt have been  done properly, not least  because Z had an
inadequate water  supply;
the sample testing  conducted by Z was inadequate to demonstrate that all the items
removed from the flat were free of asbestos;
there were undoubtedly  clothing  items  in a holdall with a broken zip and in open drawers
which would have been exposed to the asbestos  and which should therefore have been
destroyed but these were not on the BER list meaning that Z must have mixed them  in
with the clothing items  which were sent to storage;
her clothing had become soaked from water  coming through the asbestos-coated ceiling
and so should have been declared BER from the start; she submitted a report  from a
cleaning company in support of this; and
regardless of the above, RSA allowed her clothing to remain in the damaged property for
over five weeks and then in storage for a further  three months without attempting  to
clean it, which meant  that the clothing developed rot and mould.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:  
Under the policy, RSA is not obliged to pay for the replacement  of all damaged items; it may
instead pay for the cost of repair where  this is economic.
In this case, it was clear  from the outset that, due to her OCD, Miss K was very anxious
about the prospect of having  to re-use anything which was in her flat. She made  RSA aware
of this and explained that, for this reason,  she would  have preferred everything to be
declared BER. RSA acknowledged  Miss Ks anxiety  but explained that if items  were
salvageable, it wouldnt pay for their replacement. Im satisfied that this was fair.
It was arranged that Z would carry out the cleaning and decontamination, and sort out the
salvageable items from the items which were BER. Unfortunately, Z didnt perform its job as
professionally as it should have done.  I shall deal later with the behaviour of its staff towards
Ref: DRN35377093Miss K. But in terms of the cleaning and decontamination, Miss Ks concerns appear to be
backed up by Ys representative on-site who told RSA that in his opinion Z did not
clean/decontaminate items properly. I can therefore understand why Miss K may have  been
concerned.
To allay Miss Ks concerns, RSA asked Z to random test a sample of items which had been
removed to storage.  I think this was reasonable. Although Miss K and Y had expressed
concern, Z is the expert in dealing with asbestos  and, despite Miss Ks concerns about its
access to water, I dont  consider she had shown  that it had necessarily failed to carry out the
cleaning and decontamination with sufficient thoroughness. I therefore  dont consider that
RSA was required, in light of Miss Ks concerns, to declare all the contents as BER.  Z
carried out 40 swab tests  on non-clothing items,  all of which  were  negative for asbestos.
While Miss K has pointed out that this represents only a small percentage of the non-clothing
items in storage,  I consider this was sufficient to provide assurance that these items were
asbestos-free.
In its final response letter,  RSA offered a settlement of £4,475 to cover the cost of items
damaged either by the insured event or by its contractors. It subsequently agreed to
increase this after Miss K drew attention to further items which she thought had been
omitted. Im satisfied that its eventual offer in respect of these items  was fair and it doesnt
need to pay anything more in respect of Miss Ks non-clothing  contents.
In respect of the clothing items, Miss K has again  raised the concern of asbestos
contamination. Z didnt  carry  out any sample  testing of the clothing items in storage.
However, given RSA has reasonably shown the non-clothing  items removed to storage were
safe from contamination, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the clothing  items were
similarly asbestos-free unless Miss K can show there are particular reasons to doubt this.
Miss K says that Z had confirmed that there were drawers ajar in her property yet it didnt
declare the clothes in these drawers as BER.  I dont believe Z did confirm  this. It explained,
before attending  the property, that it wouldnt try to salvage clothes which  had been in
drawers which were ajar but I believe it was giving this as an example of its approach rather
than referring specifically to the situation in Miss Ks flat.
Miss K has also mentioned a holdall with a damaged  zip which  was full of clothes which she
believes would therefore have been  exposed to the asbestos. These clothing items were
apparently not on the list of BER items drawn up by Z from which  Miss K concludes  that Z
either destroyed the items  without listing them or it mixed  them  up with items which hadnt
been exposed. However,  while Miss K refers to the damaged zip, I dont  consider  she has
shown that the clothes  in the holdall were necessarily exposed to the asbestos.
Miss K has also provided a letter from a specialist company confirming  that clothing exposed
to asbestos should be declared  BER. However,  while this letter  goes on to say that Miss Ks
clothing was subject to such exposure, this is based  on the information given to it by Miss K.
I dont consider that Miss K has shown that Z retained clothing which had been exposed to
asbestos.
While I recognise that Miss K is extremely anxious about the risk of asbestos contamination,
I dont consider she has shown that Z was so reckless in its approach  that all her clothes
should have been declared  BER on the basis of the risk of asbestos contamination.
However, aside from the asbestos risk, there is also a question as to whether the clothing
Ref: DRN35377094may have  been  damaged by the water. I note that RSA thought  that while  it was waiting for
the council to confirm whether asbestos  was present, the clothing would probably become
ruined by rot and mould. In the event,  the council confirmed the asbestos  within  a few days
but it was another five weeks before RSA removed the clothes  from the property. Ive seen
no good reason  for this delay.
Furthermore, Z put the clothing into plastic bags  on the basis that, in its view, it was safe
from asbestos. No inspection took place  to confirm the extent to which it might be wet or
water-damaged. Ys representative who was on-site  has confirmed that he believes Z
mixed up wet and dry items.
It appears that RSA then kept the clothing in the bags for almost a further two months until,
in mid-November 2018, it invited Miss K to accept a cash  settlement for laundering of the
items. I cant see that any such settlement was discussed previously. Indeed,  immediately
prior to the cash settlement offer, Y had told RSA that it was concerned about the clothing,
some of which was damp, and it believed the items would need  to be dry cleaned at a total
cost of some £12,500. RSA contradicted  this, and believed that normal washing would be
sufficient though it hadnt actually inspected the clothes.
There was then a dispute between RSA and Miss K over the number of bags of clothing
which had been  removed from Miss Ks property. However, Im satisfied that RSAs cash
settlement of £3,100, which was based on the cost of 150 service washes, was sufficient to
cover the entire volume of clothing. The clothing was returned  to Miss K in mid-December
2018. RSA also agreed to pay for storage until the end of April 2019. Miss K says that after
checking some of the clothing and finding it to be damaged (she has provided  photographic
evidence and a letter of support from her storage company), she threw  it all away rather  than
keep paying for storage after that date.
It is difficult to know  whether any of Miss Ks clothing  had become  too damaged by the water
to be re-used and, if so, when it had reached this state. And because Miss K has now thrown
the clothing away, its not possible  for any inspection.
Our investigator thought that it was reasonable that RSA should be allowed to try and clean
the clothes before treating  them as BER and, on that basis, felt that its offer had been fair;
she thought it had been up to Miss K to show that a clean wouldnt have made her items 
reusable.
I agree  it was reasonable for RSA to try and clean the clothes rather than automatically
assume they were  BER.  And because  Miss K threw the clothes away,  that opportunity has
now been lost. I consider  that Miss K was unlikely  ever to have accepted  the clothes back  in
any case  there are numerous  examples  where  she refers to this and there is no doubt that
this contributed to RSAs  inaction in respect of her clothing. So Miss K must take some
responsibility for the fact that the clothes were  never  cleaned.
However, I consider  that RSA must also take responsibility for not handling the claim better
and thus not resolving the clothing issue  sooner. It conceded early on that the clothes might
be BER from the water  damage. It knew its contractor had mixed up wet and dry items. And
yet it kept the clothing in storage for almost two months before making an offer to Miss K.
I consider that it could  have done more  in that time to establish the state of the clothing,
determine whether  normal  washing would be sufficient to make it re-usable, and thus
prevent further  deterioration.
Ref: DRN35377095I consider that by the time RSA presented the clothing back  to Miss K in mid-December
2018, it is very likely  that a proportion of the items  would have become BER.  I have  no way
of knowing what proportion this might be, or indeed when it would have become BER, but
I think that the fair outcome  is that RSA should  increase its settlement to account for this.
Miss K says that her total clothing was worth  approximately  £25,000.  I consider that the fair
outcome is that RSA treats  half of this clothing as BER and pays Miss K £12,500. I consider
that RSA may reasonably deduct the £3,100 it has already paid Miss K to cover  the cost of
service washes, given  that Miss K didnt  incur this cost and never  will, meaning  BER should
pay Miss K a further £9,400.
Finally, I have noted that Z didnt perform  its job as professionally  as it should have done. In
addition, its staff were rude and demeaning towards  Miss K as was confirmed by Y. RSA has
offered £500 compensation  for the poor service from its contractors. I consider this is fair.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Miss K did not accept  my provisional decision.  In essence, she said that she didnt believe 
her items had been properly handled  and decontaminated by Z which  meant that she 
couldnt accept  any of it back and it should  all have  been declared BER.  Her specific  
comments included the following:
Z couldnt have cleaned and decontaminated everything in the time available and with 
the resources  at its disposal;
Numerous non-clothing items had been covered  in a white  powder and this had been 
confirmed by Y;
Z tested  only 1.33% of her salvaged non-clothing  items  which  is not enough to give her 
confidence that all the items were free of asbestos;
It is inevitable that some of the non-clothing items returned to her would have  still been  
contaminated and so a fair decision would  be to at least offer partial settlement;
Following the incident,  all her clothes  were saturated with water  which  had come through 
the asbestos-contaminated ceiling  and so it should all have been  declared BER;
Photos taken just after the incident show open  holdalls with clothes saturated in water 
and so these clothes should  have  been  declared  BER but they werent  on the BER list;
Z was not talking  generically when it said that it wouldnt try to salvage  items from 
drawers which were ajar but made this statement after examining photos  of the property 
and so the clothes from these drawers should  have been declared BER but they dont 
appear on the BER list;
Even if some items werent contaminated, Z mixed these up with contaminated items 
because nothing in the ajar drawers or open holdalls was included in the BER list; 
Evidence from the specialist company should not be ignored  and this confirms that, 
based on evidence  of photos, her clothes should  have been declared  BER;
Ref: DRN35377096RSA was wrong to offer her only £3,100  towards  cleaning costs given that Y had said it 
would cost £12,500 and Miss K has herself calculated  that the cost of properly cleaning 
the clothes would exceed their total value of £25,000;
RSA should  have cleaned her clothes  immediately rather  than hold on to them for three 
months and it should also have  tested  them for asbestos;
It was unreasonable  to expect her to have  kept the clothing items  in storage indefinitely, 
particularly as they were  probably  rotten  and contaminated with asbestos; 
She was open  to the possibility of salvaging some of the clothes  and I am therefore  
wrong to conclude she would have been unlikely to have  accepted any of the clothes 
back even if they had been  cleaned;
The value she put on her items of clothing  was very reasonable and all of her clothes 
were rotten and stinking so RSA should pay all of her claim  not just 50% of it; and
£500 compensation is inadequate  for the appalling service  she received from RSA and 
its contractors.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to asbestos contamination, it was clear  that Miss K was extremely  anxious about 
the risk of this from the start of the claim. I have already  explained that I consider it was 
nonetheless reasonable  for RSA to salvage  items where this was possible. The trouble is 
that Z didnt do as professional a job as it might have done.  This meant that Miss K didnt 
feel confident  that all of the salvaged items were free of asbestos. Consequently, she was 
unwilling to accept any of her possessions back.  The question  is whether or not Miss K had 
valid reason to be so concerned.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  that Miss Ks fears in this respect were 
unreasonable. I still think this is the case. I shall explain  why.
Despite Miss Ks concerns, I have no reason to believe that Z failed to clean and 
decontaminate her possessions properly. Z, not Miss K, is the expert in this process.  
In respect of her salvaged  non-clothing items,  Miss K says that some  of these were still 
coated in a white powder. However,  I have  no reasonable  grounds for concluding that this 
means they were  contaminated with asbestos.  Z says it cleaned the items which  could be 
cleaned. RSA agreed to test a random sample  of the items and no asbestos  was found in 
these 40 items. Miss K thinks this was an insufficient  sample  size but I consider it provided  
sufficient reassurance that the salvaged  non-clothing items were  free of asbestos. I do not 
consider it was inevitable that some of the other items were contaminated. I consider it was 
fair for RSA to decline  Miss Ks claim for the salvaged non-clothing items.
I do not consider  that the evidence shows all of Miss Ks clothes were saturated with water  
immediately following the incident. Indeed, Miss K has elsewhere said that when  she 
Ref: DRN35377097inspected her clothes  in December 2018, which was after they had been  left in her damaged  
flat for six weeks and then stored in bags for nearly  three months, a significant  proportion 
were either damp or wet.
RSA says those clothes which were not exposed to the asbestos, for example because  they 
were in shut wardrobes, did not necessarily need to be declared BER.  Im satisfied that this 
is reasonable. I also note that Miss K has said that many of her clothes were kept within  
bags, sometimes within larger bags. I therefore  think it likely that a large proportion of her 
clothing would not have  been vulnerable to asbestos  contamination.
I have looked  at the photo Miss K has provided of the holdalls which she says contained 
clothes saturated  with water. However, I cant reasonably conclude from this photo that the 
contents of the holdalls have necessarily  been  exposed to asbestos. Furthermore, it appears 
that the holdalls hadnt been touched since the incident so, unless  she carried  out the 
inspection afterwards, I dont see how Miss K could reasonably have concluded  that the 
contents were saturated.
While RSA had commented  on a photo of Miss Ks property which showed drawers  which 
were apparently ajar, theres nothing to indicate that Z had seen this photo and so I still think  
it was talking generically when it said it wouldnt try to salvage items  in this situation.  I cant 
say exactly what happened  in respect of the items in the drawers.  But taking everything into 
account, I consider  it very unlikely that Z would have  been so reckless  as to retain items 
which were potentially contaminated  with asbestos (though I talk more about this in the 
paragraph below).
In view of the above, I consider that Miss K should reasonably have  accepted that her 
salvaged clothes were  free from asbestos.  I dont consider  RSA was required to carry out 
any random testing to demonstrate this. I dont find the evidence of the specialist company 
persuasive because  it was based  on photos and Miss Ks version of events rather than direct  
inspection of the premises. And even if Miss K was concerned that items in the ajar drawers  
were potentially contaminated,  she also says that she was able to identify these items when 
she opened and listed the contents  of every bag when these were returned  to her by RSA. 
The items in question represent only a very small fraction of her overall clothing. Therefore, 
even if she threw away the entire bag, or bags, in which these  items  were contained, I dont 
believe it would come close to 50% of her clothing, which  is the amount I proposed that RSA 
should pay her.
I have already explained in my provisional decision why I am satisfied that £3,100 was 
enough to cover the cost of putting the salvaged clothes through a normal  service wash.  
Miss K hasnt provided  any argument or evidence to change my mind about  this. This is now 
fairly irrelevant, in any case,  because Miss K eventually  chose  not to wash  the clothes and 
so incurred no cost.
I have already explained in my provisional decision that I consider RSA should  not have held 
on to the clothes for as long as it did without  taking any action. However, I have also 
acknowledged that Miss K was partly to blame because she had made  it clear  she was 
unlikely ever to accept the clothes back in any case. She made repeated  statements to this 
effect throughout the claim.
Miss K says all the clothes were water-damaged beyond repair  and so it was unreasonable  
to have expected her to continue paying  for storage of them.  However, because  she got rid 
of the clothes before even trying to wash any of them, she cannot show  that this was the 
Ref: DRN35377098case. This is why I cannot reasonably tell RSA that it must meet  the full cost of replacing all 
her clothing.
Nonetheless, I consider  it likely that a proportion of her salvaged  clothing would have 
become BER at some  point before RSA returned  the items  to her in December 2018. That is 
why I think RSA should pay Miss K a settlement of £12,500, equivalent  to 50% of the total 
value of her clothing.  However, it may deduct the £3,100 it had already paid her for the 
washing of the clothes, which was a cost that she didnt eventually incur,  thus leaving a 
balance of £9,400.
Finally, Miss K thinks that £500 is inadequate compensation for the trouble and upset she 
has been put to as a result of RSAs  poor service.  However, after taking everything into 
account, I remain of the opinion  that this amount is fair.
In light of the above, and given that RSA offered no further comment, Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision should stand.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Miss K a further £9,400.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537709