K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2002 with a mortgage. 
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover.  
The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes.  
In this particular  case, only Mr R was covered by the PPI. And he wasnt  sold life or critical 
illness protection. Mrs R wasnt named on the policy at all.
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr and Mrs R that they didnt think their mis-sale  
complaint should  be upheld.  However, Halifax has offered to give back to Mr and Mrs R 
some of the cost of the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs R have asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about being  mis-sold 
the PPI policy.
These events were a long time ago and we no longer have access to the documents that 
would have been used during the sale. Given the sale occurred over 16 years ago this isnt 
unusual and businesses  arent required to keep  documents indefinitely.
However, weve got access to some  of Halifaxs computerised records.  Weve also seen a 
number of very similar complaints to this one and have a good and detailed  understanding  of 
how these policies were  normally sold and the procedures Halifax  used. Ive used  these 
things to help me make  a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
I can see from Halifaxs computer records that PPI was probably  discussed. I think this 
because its recorded  that Mr and Mrs R undertook a mortgage review and were asked 
several questions  about  the PPI cover, such as their employment  status, their finances and 
general health. The records also show they agreed  to buy PPI cover protecting only Mr R, in 
the event of him losing  his job or being  unable to work. 
This process  concurs  with my experience of these particular  sales  which is that consumers 
were usually asked  about whether, or what elements, of TMPP they wanted  and the results  
were recorded on the screen. I also know however, that Halifax usually then drew the 
answers up on to a written schedule  showing  what, if anything, the consumers had agreed 
to. This was sent or given  to the consumers  in the form of a letter.  
I also know it was usual  for consumers to be given documents by Halifax where it was 
explained that PPI wasnt something  they needed to have  with their mortgage. My 
Ref: DRN34130762experience is that consumers were also sent a welcome letter  about  the TMPP which set 
out the different elements chosen (or rejected).
So although  I completely accept that Mr and Mrs Rs recollections - about being  made  to feel 
they had no choice - are now genuinely  held, I think its more likely they would have been 
given these things  and would have been  able to understand they didnt  need  to buy the PPI 
cover if they didnt want to.
I also note that Mr and Mrs R had originally taken out their Halifax mortgage  in 1997 and had 
operated it until 2002  without  any PPI. I think theyd have therefore  known it wasnt  
something they needed to have. 
So overall, I think Halifax got their consent  for this cover in 2002.
Halifax says it probably recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R as part of an advised sale. 
Again, this corresponds  with my experience and means Halifax had a duty to ensure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs particular circumstances. I think  it probably was.
I say this because  Mr R was the main  earner, so it seems right he was included on the PPI. 
The mortgage was secured against  their home and so the consequences of them not being 
able to make  the repayments could have been  serious. The PPI policy,  on the other hand, 
was designed  to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if Mr R had needed to claim. In my 
experience, this is quite  a long time and much longer than the sick pay he had with his job. 
Looking at the £10.74  cost of the premiums, I also think they were affordable. 
Finally, Ive looked very carefully at the rules in the PPI policy  document  and I think  Mr R 
would have been eligible  for the cover and able to make a successful claim if hed needed 
to. Overall, I think  the PPI cover was suitable. 
During the sale Halifax also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I cant say Mr and Mrs R were told or given all the information they should have 
been but I think they would have been  able to see how much the policy  cost and what was 
covered. I think they would have also been given a copy of the policy  rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R tailored the 
TMPP cover  to suit their needs of the time.  I think they probably agreed  to the cover 
because it was something they thought  would be useful to have. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland plc doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs R paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has since offered to give 
them back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs to do anything more.  Bank  of 
Scotland plc will make  arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision, 
if it hasnt already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs mis-sale complaint. And I dont  
direct Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything more than the above  to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Ref: DRN34130763Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3413076