K821x#15complaint
Ms H complained about the suitability of advice from S4 Financial Ltd (S4) to invest  in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS)  via her self invested personal pension  
(SIPP).
background
Ms H is complaining about  advice given by S4 in November 2011. She complained  to S4
in February 2018.  S4 initially objected to us considering the complaint. It said the complaint 
had been made outside  the permitted time limits. 
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 11 April 2019  setting out why I didnt  agree  the complaint 
had been made too late. The complaint had been made outside the primary six year period. 
It will only be in time if it was made  within three years of when Ms H became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) she had cause for complaint. Ms H must have been 
unaware (and reasonably so) until sometime  after February 2015 that she had cause for 
complaint. In my decision I set out why I thought  that was the case. So the complaint had 
been made in time. 
Ms H initially  sought advice in relation to her overall  finances from S4 in 2008. A fact
find was completed which  recorded she was aged 44 and employed  by an investment bank 
on a basic salary of £110,000. She had three personal pension plans, rental properties, 
company shares  and some general savings plans. She intended to fully retire  at the age of 
65 and her attitude to risk was recorded as balanced aggressive.
After a change  of employer in May 2010, S4 completed a further fact find with Ms H which 
recorded that she was now employed  by another investment bank  on a basic salary of 
£200,000.
In June 2011 S4 recommended the consolidation of Ms Hs pension plans to a SIPP.
The transfers were  completed in October 2011 and a combined  amount of £165,386 was
transferred to the new SIPP . A suitability report was issued which recommended Ms H
invest in a wide range of funds which was in line with S4s asset  allocation  model  for a
balanced aggressive investor.  The recommendations  included  the advice to invest £25,000
in the Merchant Place Waste to Energy investment (the Waste to Energy Fund).
A separate  additional suitability report was issued to Ms H specifically for the advice to invest  
in the Waste to Energy  Fund. The report outlined some of the risks of the investment, 
including that it was high risk and potentially illiquid. S4s recommended that Ms H invest 
£25,000 in the Fund  as part of the balanced  portfolio  that we are building. This may be 
topped up with circa £18,959 of limited recourse bank funding to provide a gross Investment 
of 43,959. S4 added The gearing  element  of this investment allows  the potential capital 
growth and income  over a 5-7 year period  should be enhanced whilst the downside is limited 
to your original cash stake.
Ms H signed  the suitability  report with the attached risk warning (about the limited  recourse 
nature of the investment). She confirmed shed read and understood the recommendation 
and relevant risk warning  and wished to proceed She also confirmed shed received the 
information memorandum and other  relevant documentation. 
Ms H complained to S4 in 2018 after the Waste  to Energy Fund remained illiquid
Ref: DRN39654152despite a number of reassurances that the investment was due to mature. She felt the
investment was too high risk and illiquid and therefore not line with her objectives or attitude 
to risk at the time. S4 said the investment was only a small proportion of her overall  portfolio 
and, as such, it was suitable. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He upheld it. He noted Ms H didnt have 
any experience  of investing in UCIS  and he considered her pension was over exposed to 
such investments. He didnt think shed have  understood the UCIS recommendations made 
to her, or that she was willing to take on such risks.  In addition, the promotion of UCIS  was 
restricted and he wasnt satisfied that the requirements had been met. The UCIS investment 
made up around 15% of Ms Hs pension  portfolio  which  was three  times  the level of 
exposure the adjudicator considered was acceptable. 
S4 didnt agree. It said it had recommended UCIS to Ms H on the basis of her being  a high 
net worth  investor.  It was made  abundantly clear to her that the investment  was new, and 
involved building a waste facility in a foreign country.  And that it could be illiquid. Given  her 
employment and experience, shed  have understood complex  financial matters,  and so 
ultimately wouldve  been comfortable  with the recommendations made to her. And when 
looking at her exposure to UCIS, her overall  portfolio including her investments and property 
held outside of her pension  should  be taken into account. On that basis she wasnt over 
exposed to UCIS.  
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion. Taking into account  that Ms H was 
not considered  to be exempt from the restrictions on the promotion  of UCIS because  she 
was a sophisticated investor, the argument that she was an experienced investor wasnt 
compelling. Furthermore, given the tax advantages and restricted  access to pension  
arrangements, these should be looked  at in isolation when considering the exposure of a 
portfolio. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive mentioned  above, I issued a jurisdiction decision  in April 2019. I dealt with S4s 
argument that Ms Hs complaint focused on the illiquidity of the Waste  to Energy Fund,  
which S4 had said had been  made  clear  to her at the outset. I explained why I considered 
she was complaining about the overall suitability of the Fund. Thats  still my view.  Further, 
and as S4 accepts,  Ms H also complained that her risk profile hadnt been  taken into 
account. Central to my decision is whether  the Waste to Energy Fund  matched Ms Hs 
attitude to risk. 
I dont disagree with what the adjudicator  said about UCIS generally.  These  schemes are 
usually high risk, trading  in unusual assets, with no proven record  and often  involve gearing  
or borrowing. They are not subject  to the same  restrictions  as regulated collective 
investment schemes  in terms of investment powers  and how they are run. UCIS  are 
generally characterised by a high degree  of illiquidity  or volatility or both. Some, such  as the 
Waste to Energy Fund, involve overseas  projects with returns  denominated in local currency. 
That brings about exchange  rate risks as well as other risk factors, such as changes  to local 
government policies, laws and regulations. In the event that a UCIS fails, investors  may not 
Ref: DRN39654153have full recourse  to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  Often, as I think  
was the case  here, there is a minimum investment which means that losses can be high. 
There are restrictions  on the promotion of UCIS.  Ive looked at what the regulatory position 
was in 2011 when the Waste to Energy Fund was recommended to Ms H.
Section 238 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act (FSMA)  prohibits  the promotion  of 
UCIS to retail clients unless a valid exemption  is relied on. S4 was clearly aware there were 
specific rules concerning the marketing of UCIS. There were two sets of exemptions that 
could be relied  on. The first relate  to certified high net worth or sophisticated investors. Other  
exemptions are set out in the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules   see COBS 4.12R. S4 
relies on Ms H being a high net worth investor and so a person to whom UCIS  could  be 
promoted without  breaching the section 238 restriction. 
Ms H signed  a statement on 1 December 2011  saying she was a certified  high net worth 
individual. Such  statements  are required to be in a prescribed form - see FSMA (Promotion  
of Collective Investment  Schemes (Exemptions) Order 2001  (as amended) (the PCIS 
Order). The statement  Ms H signed was deficient.  In particular, and importantly, it didnt  say 
she understood that by signing it she may lose significant rights and she may have no right 
to complain to the regulator or this service or to seek compensation from FSCS. 
But I dont think that of itself means the recommendation to invest  in the Waste to Energy  
Fund shouldnt have been made and Ms Hs complaint should be upheld on that basis.  
Despite the failure  to comply strictly with section 21 of the PCIS Order, from what Ive seen, 
Ms H was a high net worth individual and so someone to whom UCIS could lawfully  be 
promoted. 
I think the real issue is whether the recommendation to invest  £25,000 of her SIPP fund in 
the Waste to Energy  Fund was suitable  for her. Ms Hs complaint centres on that Fund. But it 
was one of several  funds  recommended for the money shed consolidated  in her new SIPP.  I 
dont think it would be right to view the Waste to Energy Fund in isolation. I think it should be 
considered as part of the portfolio that S4 recommended for Ms Hs SIPP.  
Ive noted whats  been said about Ms Hs knowledge and experience  and the roles shed 
been employed in. But, regardless of that, it was still up to S4 to recommend a SIPP portfolio 
that matched  Ms Hs attitude to risk. 
Ms Hs attitude to risk was assessed as balanced aggressive. I take that as meaning her 
approach to investment risk was somewhere  in between balanced and aggressive. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that wasnt an accurate  assessment of her attitude to risk. And I 
think she had the capacity for any loss that sort of investment strategy might bring about. 
S4 recommended  a spread of investments, with details (a narrative description  of each 
investment with specific risks highlighted  and fund charges set out) given in the suitability 
report dated 20 October 2011. That was with the exception of the Waste to Energy Fund 
which, as Ive said, was dealt with separately. 
S4 explained  that some  of the investments recommended might  have  a higher risk rating  
than Ms Hs overall stated  attitude  to risk but that the recommendations overall were aimed 
at meeting her overall stated tolerance  of Balanced Aggressive. I think  the Waste to Energy 
Fund would have fallen into that higher risk rating category. 
Ref: DRN39654154The suitability report for the Waste  to Energy Fund gave some risk warnings. Ms H signed 
the report and the attached risk warning. The report said the Fund  was unregulated and 
suitable only for informed  and experienced  investors. And that prospective investors should 
be aware that investing in the Fund may expose  them to a significant risk of losing their 
entire investment. The risk of illiquidity was mentioned. . But I think that was, to some extent 
at least, counterbalanced by the comment that, if the facility couldnt  be sold, it might 
continue to provide  an attractive income stream.  
Ms H was also given a copy of the prospectus. Although some risk factors are set out, the 
document is lengthy (some 55 pages) and complex.  I think Ms H would  have relied more on 
the summary  set out in the suitability report. Particularly as the report  said the memorandum 
was somewhat out of date and that significant  progress has been made on the project since  
and as detailed  in the report. The report also said, about potential returns  to capital based on 
the information in the memorandum,  that the investment had now passed  some key 
milestones and as such profitable returns are now more certain (although  not guaranteed) 
and are likely to be at a higher level than originally anticipated.
A large  part of the report was devoted to positive developments  and how the project would 
benefit from several income  streams. The potential for significant early  returns  was 
highlighted together with the possible returns to capital, namely:
A return to equity of 229.2% would  be generated in this scenario (with circa 80% of capita! 
being returned in the first 2 years);  this is equivalent  to an internal rate of return  (IRR)  of 
37.1% pa.
On a purely speculative  assumption;  if the heat can be sold In line with the projections  in the 
IM then the return would  potentially  increase  to circa  253.7%  on the original  equity stake (or 
an IRR of circa 41.2%  pa.)
I also bear in mind what Ive said above  about the comment added  about  the returns  being 
likely to be at a higher  level than originally  anticipated. 
Overall the report gave a positive view of the investment and its potential. That,  to a certain 
extent, is to be expected if a particular investment is being recommended. But Im not sure 
that the suitability report  gave a sufficiently balanced view of the investment and the risks.
But the real issue  is whether  the Fund matched Ms Hs attitude to risk. The report  said that 
the investment  proposal was designed to maintain Ms Hs balanced/aggressive  approach. 
And that the Fund sits in the Private Equity sector of asset allocation and will represent 8% 
of [Ms Hs] current  managed portfolio value. It added:
This is an illiquid investment, as a Balanced  Aggressive investor the thresholds for illiquid 
investment within  your portfolio would generally be between 15% and 35%,  this investment 
will bring the level of illiquid investments within your portfolio to 8%, which  given your 
capacity for loss and risk profile is within acceptable limits. 
Im not sure where the figure of 8% came from. As the adjudicator said, the Waste to Energy  
Fund represented about 15% of Ms Hs overall  SIPP fund. So the level of illiquid investment 
was higher  almost  twice that indicated  by S4. Whilst that was still within  S4s stated  limits 
and what it considered acceptable for an investor such as Ms H, her SIPP portfolio was 
exposed to a higher  level of potentially illiquid investments than S4 indicated. 
Ref: DRN39654155Theres no maximum permitted level of UCIS investment. The regulators 2010 UCIS good 
and poor practice  report gave, as an example of good practice, where a firm had set up a 
maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS  investments within  their customers  portfolio and 
monitored it on on-going basis. In that particular example that was between 3% and 5%, 
which the firm continued to monitor. 
In a speech given on 14 December 2010 the regulators then head of savings and 
investments said about UCIS that they are usually  regarded as speculative investments. 
This means  that in practice  they are rarely regarded as suitable for more  than a small share  
of an investors portfolio . Advisers were also reminded to reflect on whether they give a 
balanced view of UCIS in the material provided  to clients. As Ive said above  Im not sure the 
suitability report was sufficiently balanced.  But, and regardless of that, I think the regulators 
expectation, bearing in mind  the nature of these type of investments and the multiple  risk 
factors involved, was that any UCIS investment would  be limited
I agree  with the adjudicator that an investment of some 15% of the SIPP  fund in UCIS  is 
more than wed expect  to see for a balanced investor or an investor whose attitude to risk 
was something above that and between balanced  and aggressive. 
S4 has argued  that the Waste to Energy Fund represented a much  smaller percentage of Ms 
Hs overall assets. Ive taken into account  Ms Hs overall financial position. Its relevant in 
terms of the level of risk she could  afford  to take and her capacity for loss. But S4 had been 
instructed specifically in relation to her SIPP fund. And shed indicated  that she wanted to 
take a balanced aggressive approach to that. So it was up to S4 to recommend a portfolio 
for Ms Hs SIPP that matched that. 
If an investor is advised to invest a proportion of their pension portfolio in a UCIS, that can 
result in the portfolio not being balanced  and not matching the customers overall attitude to 
risk. I think thats the case here. The inclusion of the Waste to Energy Fund meant Ms Hs 
SIPP portfolio  was exposed to more  risk than shed  said, as a balanced aggressive investor, 
she was prepared to take. Had the Fund  been  replaced by a balanced  or medium  risk 
investment then the portfolio overall  would have better matched Ms Hs attitude to risk. As 
things stood, the portfolio, with the inclusion of the £25,000 investment in the Waste to 
Energy Fund, represented more  risk than Ms H had indicated  she was prepared  to take. On 
that basis the recommendation to invest in that Fund was unsuitable for Ms H. So Im 
upholding her complaint.
I dont disagree with the redress  the adjudicator set out. I think  there  is more  than one 
approach that might  be taken. But Im satisfied that what  the adjudicator suggested was fair 
and reasonable.  So Ive adopted the redress the adjudicator suggested. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms H as close  as possible in 
the position shed probably now be in if shed been  given  suitable advice. I think shed have 
invested differently.  It is not possible to say precisely  what  shed have done instead but Im 
satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Ms Hs circumstances and 
objectives when  she invested.
To compensate Ms H fairly  S4 should:
Ref: DRN39654156Compare the performance of Ms Hs investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, theres a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, pay into Ms Hs pension  plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment  should allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Ms Hs pension plan it should  be paid direct to 
her. But had it been possible  to pay it into the plan,  it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. The notional  allowance should  be 
calculated using  Ms Hs actual or expected  marginal rate of tax at her selected 
retirement age. For example, if shes likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. If shed have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay Ms H £200  for the disruption caused to her retirement planning.
Pay any interest  thats due. Income tax may be payable  on any interest  paid. If S4 
considers it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should  tell Ms H how much it has taken  off and give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Provide details of its calculations to Ms H in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Merchant  
Place 
Waste to 
Energy  
Fund still existsFTSE UK
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
calculation8% pa from 
the date of my 
final decision  
on any 
compensation not paid within 
28 days of 
notification of 
Ms Hs 
acceptance of 
my final 
decision. 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. 
So, the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. S4 should 
take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as above.
Ref: DRN39654157If S4 is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil
for the purpose  of calculation. 
S4 may wish to require  that Ms H provides  an undertaking to pay S4 any amount she may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. S4 will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other 
distribution out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair value at the point  it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on. If there 
are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if S4 totals 
all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms H wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Ms Hs circumstances  and risk attitude.
ongoing SIPP fees
Ms H may wish to move her pension fund to a different arrangement.  But if, in order for the 
SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented,  the Waste to Energy Fund needs to be 
removed and S4 cant buy it, S4 should pay an amount equal  to five years  of SIPP  fees 
based on the current tariff to Ms H. This is in addition to the compensation set out above.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. S4 Financial  Ltd must redress Ms H as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Lesley Stead
Ref: DRN39654158ombudsman
Ref: DRN3965415