K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Ageas  Insurance  Limited unfairly charged them  an 
additional premium  for their motor insurance  policy.
Mrs L is the principal policyholder, so  for ease  Ill refer to both Mr and Mrs Ls comments 
and actions as being Mrs Ls.
background
Mrs L applied for a motor  policy through a comparison website giving details  of her and 
Mr Ls driving histories. Shortly afterwards Ageas charged Mr and Mrs L an additional 
premium of roughly  £147 and the broker involved  charged them an admin  fee of roughly £15 
to arrange that.
Mrs L contacted the broker who said that there  was some discrepancies in the driving  
histories Mrs L had provided, which had caused  Ageas to charge the extra  premium.  Mrs L 
explained that shed mistakenly said one non-fault incident happed to her when in fact it 
actually happened  to Mr L. That claim didnt affect  the premium.
Mrs L disputed a discrepancy with a second incident, which involved a claim Mr L had made 
some years earlier.  When applying for the policy Mrs L had referred to it as a vandalism 
claim. But the insurer involved at the time had recorded it on a shared database as a claim 
for a theft from the car. The broker explained that it was changing the claim from vandalism  
to theft from the car that caused Ageas to charge the additional premium.
Mrs L didnt think that was fair and bought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 April 2019. For ease Ive copied by provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.   
In this case the broker has explained that it was the discrepancy between whether a 
previous claim was categorised as vandalism or theft that led to Ageas charging the 
additional premium.
I can understand that Mrs L might find it surprising that a small change in categorisation of a 
claim can lead to a significant  change in premium. Ill explain at the outset that were  not the 
industry regulator and its not my role to tell an insurer  how much it can charge for its 
policies. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer what factors  it should take into account when 
assessing risk. Different insurers  will have different views on what  presents a risk and the 
extent of those. Thats  essentially  a matter of commercial judgement and not something  we 
would usually think its fair to interfere with. So if Ageas thinks a driver with a certain  
category of claim presents a higher risk than a driver whos also made claims but for 
different reasons, Ageas is entitled  to charge a higher  premium.  
But that doesnt necessarily mean it was fair for Ageas to charge an additional premium in 
the circumstances of this case. It might help if I explain  that theres specific  legislation:  the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), that sets out 
what an insurer may do if a consumer hasnt taken reasonable  care to answer its questions 
when applying for a policy,  and it refers  to that as a qualifying misrepresentation. So the first 
Ref: DRN39594272thing I need to decide is whether or not Mrs L did or didnt take reasonable care when doing  
so and whether  or not she made a misrepresentation.
Mrs L believes that she gave Ageas correct information when applying for her policy.  So the 
first point I need to ask is if she was asked a clear  question.   
Our adjudicator asked  Ageas to show us the questions Mrs L answered when applying  for 
the policy through a comparison website. The only question  Ageas  has shown us was 
whether or not the driver concerned had made any claims in the last five years. And that can 
only receive a yes or no answer. And its apparent that Mrs L answered  yes to that question 
when referring to Mr Ls driving  history. Ageas  hasnt shown us the extra questions Mrs L 
would have been asked in order to provide  more  detail  after that point. So I cant  be certain 
those questions were  clear. But Ive run through the options the comparison site currently 
offers. Given theres been a significant  gap between the date that Mrs L applied  for the 
policy and my consideration of the complaint, I cant be sure that the options are identical, 
but I think theyre likely  to be similar. 
At the moment,  the comparison site gives the consumer four options  to describe the incident. 
Those are: accident, theft, windscreen/glass, and other. The four options dont currently  
come with any descriptions to guide the consumer  as to which one they should select.
Mrs Ls said that Mr L made the relevant  claim  after his car was damaged and some money 
stolen from it. His insurer  didnt pay the claim for the stolen money but did pay for the claim 
of damage to the car. The car wasnt stolen and no theft claim was paid. So it seems that 
Mrs L didnt think it was a theft claim and neither  was it an accident or windscreen claim.  So 
its likely  that she selected other at that point. That would (currently)  give Mrs L another  
four options:  fire damage, other/unknown/miscellaneous,  storm/flood, vandalism damage.  
And from those options it seems Mrs L chose vandalism as being  the most similar option  to 
the claim that Mr Ls previous insurer had settled. And I think  her selections  were reasonable 
in the circumstances. So I think Mrs L took reasonable care to answer the questions put to 
her. So I dont think she made a qualifying misrepresentation. It follows that I dont think it 
was fair for Ageas to charge her an additional premium. And I note that because of that 
additional premium  the agent charged  her an admin fee that she wouldnt otherwise have 
had to pay. 
For completeness Ive noticed that if Mrs L had chosen theft as an option, the comparison 
site does (currently) go on to give the options  to say whether that was a theft of the car or 
from the car. But if Mrs L didnt think that theft claim had been paid, I can understand that 
she wouldnt  necessarily have had any reason  to choose the theft option.
But, even  if I thought that Mrs L hadnt taken reasonable care to answer  the questions, and 
so had made a careless misrepresentation, I still dont think that Ageas dealt with her fairly. 
CIDRA sets out what insurers  may do when a consumer has made  a carless 
misrepresentation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied). But if the consumer isnt 
happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
Ref: DRN39594273CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium. But we think  its 
reasonable for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres  a problem and give them the 
option of paying the additional premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to 
cancel the policy themselves.
In this case I havent seen evidence that Ageas gave Miss L the option  of cancelling her 
policy, without penalty, herself. So, even if Id been  persuaded that Mrs L had made a 
careless misrepresentation,  I still wouldnt have thought it was fair for Ageas to simply take 
the additional premium. It follows  that I dont think its dealt with Mr and Mrs L fairly.
In order to put things  right I think Ageas  should refund the additional premium to Mr and 
Mrs L. I think k it should also reimburse them for the fee the agent charged for administering  
the additional premium. It should add simple interest to those sums from the date it deducted 
the additional premium to the date it pays the refunds, at a rate of 8% a year.
Im also aware that this complaint  has been a source of distress  and inconvenience for 
Mr and Mrs L, so I think it should pay them £100 compensation to address that.
Mrs L accepted  my provisional  decision. Ageas dont provide any additional  comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr and Mrs L nor Ageas objected to my provisional decision I find no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr and Mrs L the additional  premium  it charged after amending the claim on 
Mr Ls driving history.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs L for the brokers admin  fee for charging  the additional 
premium.
It should add simple interest to the above  amounts at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date Mr and Mrs L paid those amounts to the date it pays  the refunds1.
Pay Mr and Mrs L £100  compensation to address their distress and inconvenience.
Ageas should  pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs L have 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN395942741 If Ageas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN3959427