K820x#14complaint
Mr A says The One Stop Money Shop Limited  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan The One Stop Money Shop Limited provided to 
Mr A in April 2017. Mr As loan was for £1,000. It was to be repaid in 12 monthly  instalments 
of £158.33. Mr A repaid his loan early.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. Mr A disagreed  and the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
The One Stop Money Shop Limited  needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  
to make sure Mr A could  repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that The One Stop Money Shop Limited should 
fairly and reasonably have done more  to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that The One Stop Money Shop Limited  
was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether 
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN32284012This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for the loan would most likely have 
shown that The One Stop Money  Shop Limited wasnt wrong  to lend to Mr A:
This was Mr As first loan from The One Stop Money Shop Limited. Mr A had stated his 
income as £2,500  a month  and his expenditure as £210.  So the loan repayments looked 
affordable for Mr A.
The One Stop Money Shop Limited  wasnt able to provide the results of credit checks it 
had carried out as Mr A had asked for these  to be deleted. Mr A said hed had one 
default on his record but this was two years before his loan application. So I dont  think 
this was a reason  not to lend to him. 
Mr A had been repaying his overdraft and this was cleared before he asked for his loan.
Mr A said he had other outgoings and that The One Stop Money Shop  Limited  should  have  
carried out better checks. But given the loan amount, what  was apparent  about  Mr As 
circumstances at the time and his history with The One Stop Money Shop Limited, I dont  
think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information  needed  to show 
the lending was unsustainable.  
There wasnt anything in the information Mr A provided or the information The One Stop 
Money Shop Limited shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve  been proportionate 
to start verifying what Mr A was saying. So I cant say it was wrong  for The One Stop Money 
Shop Limited to have approved Mr As loan. 
Mr A also complained that The One Stop Money  Shop  Limited had harassed him on social  
media. I can see that The One Stop Money Shop Limited sent Mr A one message on social  
media to try to contact him about  a missed payment when it wasnt able to make contact with 
him by other means. I dont think this was unfair  or unreasonable and I cant  say that it 
constitutes harassment.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3228401