K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs P bought a monthly premium PPI policy in March 1999  at the same time as taking out a 
credit card. The card and policy  were applied for during a meeting. The card and insurance  
ended in or before June 2006.
Mrs P says the policy was mis-sold to her. She says she had no idea the PPI had been 
taken out.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mrs P when she discussed having a 
credit card with an advisor during a meeting.  But Ive looked at sales documentation and 
considered what  I know  of Lloyds branch sales at that time. I consider it is more likely 
than not she was advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect her card 
repayments, and she took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI with a box ticked. It says Yes,  I wish to take out card 
payment protection.  I can see the box has been  ticked  next to this statement and Mrs P 
has signed the application agreeing to all that has been ticked within it. I havent been 
able to see any evidence  that anything different happened in this sale and Mrs Ps 
recollections have  not persuaded me on this occasion that she wasnt  given a choice to 
have it either. So on balance, as I have already concluded, I think Mrs P was aware of 
the insurance and was given a choice in the meeting.
From  what I know of branch sales at that time, I think Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to 
Mrs P. So it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for Mrs P based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.  
I say this because  the benefit provided  by the policy would have been useful to her if she 
had any period of sickness  or unemployment.  Any claim could have been paid for up to 
12 months in addition to statutory  sick pay and would  have  provided  her with additional 
income at a difficult time. So I think the policy recommended to Mrs P would have been 
of use and so I cannot  conclude  that it would have been unsuitable  for her based on 
Ref: DRN34350892what I have seen. I also dont think there  were  any significant terms or exclusions that 
made the policy unsuitable for Mrs P either.
Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs  at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Mrs P wouldve  changed her mind about taking the policy  if this 
cost was presented  clearly to her during the meeting (for the same reasons why I think  
the policy is suitable).
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Mrs P wouldve  been  affected  by any of these, due to her circumstances at the time of 
sale.
Finally, Mrs P mentioned  in a recent submission to us that in 2001 she changed  employment  
and received sick pay. She says if she had known about the PPI policy then she would have 
cancelled it as she didnt  need it at this point. I have looked at Mrs Ps circumstances from 
the time of sale and not in 2001, as this is when  Mrs P says Lloyds mis-sold the policy  to 
her. And at that point  for the reasons I have already given, I think the policy was suitable for 
her. So I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3435089