K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold  him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ds credit card account during a phone call. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr D is mainly unhappy because he says PPI was added on without his consent or 
knowledge. 
So the complaint comes  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Theres no call recording. And Ive not seen  any phone script. So, I dont know  exactly what 
was said about  PPI. But it isnt reasonable to expect  Mr D to remember  precisely what was 
discussed at the time as the sale took place so long ago. So what  Mr D says now isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  his complaint. I must take into account all the 
information Ive got and the wider circumstances  and decide what I think is most  likely. 
I think MBNA made Mr D aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say 
this because the credit card application form he filled in had Yes  and No options for PPI  
and Mr D ticked No on his completed  application. So he wouldve been aware that it was up 
to him to decide  whether  or not he wanted to have  PPI. 
I think its most likely  that he was persuaded of the benefits of having PPI during a phone  call 
when he spoke to MBNA,  possibly to get his card activated, and it was added to his account 
at his request.  I dont  think its likely  that it wouldve been added  to his account otherwise. 
PPI wouldve  appeared on his monthly statements. So Mr D wouldve been  aware  he had it 
on his account  and he couldve taken this up with MBNA if this hadnt  been what hed 
wanted or agreed to. Theres nothing to suggest  he did that. I can understand why Mr D 
mightve forgotten now. But I find he took out PPI knowing it was his choice to have it. 
MBNA had to make sure that Mr D had enough information to make a proper decision about  
whether PPI was right for him.
Ref: DRN38347512Mr D was eligible for the policy. He doesnt appear  to have had significant  other  means to 
make his credit card repayments if he couldnt  work. The policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to his sick pay for up to 12 months  if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out until he returned 
to work or the card was paid off if he was too sick to work or disabled. So thats  a lot longer 
than he couldve depended on getting  sick pay from his employer. 
Hoping family can help in the event  of money  problems  isnt as dependable as taking out 
PPI. I dont know if Mr D wouldve always been able to rely on other people to pay his credit 
card bills if he couldnt work and had money problems. Ive also taken into account that Mr D 
told us he was entitled to a redundancy  pay out and he had death  in service benefit. But this 
doesnt affect my decision. PPI provided  a different sort of benefit and paid out in different 
circumstances. So I think that the PPI couldve benefitted Mr D.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ds case. So, I dont  think  having  more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision  to take out the PPI. 
MBNA mightnt have  properly explained  what the policy would cost,  or what  it might  pay out 
if Mr D made  a claim. I doubt that Mr D fully appreciated how much  PPI might actually cost 
on a month  to month basis. Or that he realised hed have to keep on paying for PPI if he was 
claiming  and how this affected the real value of the benefit hed be getting. 
But Mr D chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted 
it and the policy was apparently affordable for him. Looked at overall, given  the benefits PPI 
offered him, I think it unlikely Mr D wouldve made a different  decision  if better  information 
had been provided. On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3834751