K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the amount offered by U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  in 
settlement of a claim under their home  insurance policy.
background
Mrs J lost an earring. She made  a claim to UKI. It accepted the claim.
Mrs J provided  UKI with the remaining earring. It sought advice from its jewellery supplier 
(which Ill call L). Based  on Ls advice,  UKI offered to settle Mrs Js claim with a voucher for 
£395 (less the policy excess of £250) which it said she could use to obtain a new pair of 
earrings of comparative value. It said the remaining earring  would then become its salvage  
though Mrs J would be able to buy this back if she wished.
Mrs J was unhappy at this offer. She provided her own valuation stating that it would cost 
£800 to replace the original pair of earrings. She also said that she understood it was 
possible to have the remaining earring scanned and digitally re-made at a cost of £1,500.
UKI provided  Mrs Js valuation to L but it wasnt persuaded  to increase its own valuation.  It 
considered that Mrs Js jeweller  had overstated the replacement value of the earrings.
Based on Ls opinion, UKI maintained its offer to settle the claim with a voucher for £395,  
plus Mrs J having the option to buy back the original earring should  she wish.
Mrs J considered that UKIs offer was unfair.  She referred her complaint  to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
 
The policy  states, under  the heading How we settle claims:
For any personal possession, set or part of a set that is lost or damaged we will choose 
whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace  or repair using our own suppliers, or
make  a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available,  we will pay the full cost of the 
item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
In this case, the earring is 34 years old and so a replacement  is not readily available. Mrs J 
has said that she understands it is possible  to have the remaining earring scanned  and 
digitally re-made  for a cost of £1,500. However, this is considerably  more  than the value of 
the earrings. I consider  that in a situation  such as this, UKI is not obliged to provide an exact 
replacement but may reasonably choose to settle  the claim by enabling Mrs J to obtain a 
replacement pair of similar value.
Ref: DRN39501362L has valued the pair of earrings at £395 and UKI has chosen to settle the claim by paying 
this amount to Mrs J in the form of a voucher.
However, Mrs J has provided a valuation stating  it would  cost £800 to replace the earrings 
with a pair of similar quality.
L has disputed the valuation provided  by Mrs J. However, I have no real grounds for 
deciding that one of the valuations is more reliable than the other.
I could ask that UKI obtain a third valuation to help settle the matter.  However,  I note that 
Mrs J had previously indicated  that, rather than a voucher,  she would have been prepared to 
accept a replacement  pair of earrings of similar specification, along with the option to buy 
back her remaining earring. L has indicated that for less than £395  it could  make  a 
replacement pair which would very closely resemble the original  pair I therefore consider that 
a fair way of settling  this dispute is for UKI to offer Mrs J, as an alternative to the voucher, 
the option of receiving a replacement pair of earrings  of very similar appearance and similar 
value made  by L (Mrs J should note that she would still have to pay the policy  excess).
UKI explained to Mrs J that if it were to settle her claim, the remaining earring would become 
its property as salvage but that she would have the opportunity to buy this back. I cant see 
that UKI ever confirmed  to Mrs J how much it would cost to buy back the earring. However, it 
has now confirmed to us that the cost to buy back the remaining earring would  be £10 (plus 
a likely charge of £9 for secure postage and packaging).
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs J accepted  my provisional decision.
UKI also accepted  my provisional decision,  though  it believed  it had already offered this 
settlement to Mrs J and so thought it was unfair for us to record  the complaint as being 
upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs J, and UKI have accepted my provisional decision.  Im therefore satisfied 
that this decision  should stand.
UKI has argued that it had already offered to make Mrs J a replacement  pair of earrings, and 
to buy back the old earring for £10. However,  it didnt offer this settlement offer in its final 
response letter. It was only after the complaint was referred to this service that it confirmed 
its willingness to make a replacement pair of very similar appearance and similar value, and 
clarified the salvage cost which Mrs J would have to pay for the remaining earring. If UKI had 
provided this clarification sooner, it might have averted the need for Mr and Mrs J to refer 
their complaint to us. I therefore  consider it is fair to record  the complaint as being upheld in 
part.
Ref: DRN39501363my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I conclude that U K Insurance Limiteds  offer of a voucher for £395 is fair and doesnt  need 
to be increased. However, I require  U K Insurance Limited also to offer Mrs J an alternative 
settlement of receiving  a replacement pair of earrings of very similar appearance and similar 
value made  by L. In the event of Mrs J accepting  either of these settlement alternatives,  U K 
Insurance Limited should also allow Mrs J to buy back the remaining earring for £10 (plus  
any applicable  post and packing fee) and the policy excess  of £250 will be payable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3950136