K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited  mis-sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  MBNA says that Mr B took 
the policy out during a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. Mr B is mainly  unhappy because he told us he didnt ever agree  to 
have PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
MBNAs records of this sale show that it sold PPI over the phone  to Mr B.
I dont doubt that Mr B is sure about what  hes told us. But it would be completely 
understandable that Mr B mightve forgotten how he took out this PPI after such  a long time. 
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
The phone sales process and script  that MBNA staff followed at the time wouldve made 
Mr B aware it was up to him to decide  if he wanted  to have PPI. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr B to be able to remember details of a discussion that 
took place so long ago. But theres nothing to suggest that MBNA wouldnt have followed its 
normal sales process when speaking to Mr B. 
The PPI wouldve appeared on his credit  card statements following the phone  call. So Mr B 
wouldve seen this. If he hadnt asked for the PPI he couldve taken this up with MBNA at the 
time. Ive seen no information to suggest this is what happened.  
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to uphold Mr Bs complaint about  
the way he was sold PPI, just based  on what he recalls now.  I think  its more  likely that 
during the phone call Mr B decided he wanted  the benefits PPI offered and it was added to 
his account at his request. I dont think its likely that MBNA wouldve added PPI to his 
account otherwise.
On balance, based on all the information  Ive seen, I find MBNA  made  Mr B aware that the 
PPI was optional  and he chose to take it.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr B so it didnt  have  to check  if it was suitable for him. 
But it still had to make  sure that Mr B had enough  information to make  a proper decision 
about whether  PPI was right for him.
Ref: DRN39484852Mr B was eligible for the policy.  Looking at what hes told us about  his circumstances, he 
doesnt appear to have  had significant other means  to pay his credit card bills if he couldnt 
work. 
The policy wouldve covered  Mr B if he was off sick until he was able to go back  to work or 
until his card balance  was paid off. I think  this wouldve been a useful benefit for Mr B in 
these circumstances  as he told us he couldnt  have  depended  on getting sick pay from his 
employer. And the policy protected  Mr Bs credit card monthly  repayments  for up to 
12 months if he lost his job and was unemployed. Repeat claims were  possible under the 
policy. 
So I think that PPI was worthwhile for Mr B. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Bs case  when he took out the policy. 
I dont think MBNA properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might pay out if 
Mr B made a claim. But MBNA  probably made Mr B aware that hed be charged  68p per 
£100 of his statement balance. Given the benefits PPI offered him, I think  it unlikely Mr B 
wouldve made a different  decision if clearer  information had been provided. On balance 
I think hed still have  taken out the policy. 
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken carefully  into account everything that Mr B has said in 
response to our adjudicators assessment. I can see that hes had to deal with some  difficult  
circumstances  but this doesnt affect  my view on this mis-selling  complaint. I hope however 
that setting things out as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
Ref: DRN39484853my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr B.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3948485