K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out on a store  
card in 2002. Ms G says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms Gs credit  card application  shows a signature  in a separate section  confirming that 
she wanted the PPI. Ms G didnt have to sign this section if she didnt want  the policy. So 
I think HSBC made it clear that Ms G didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out.  
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Ms G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms G got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong and she needed to make a claim especially 
as Ms Gs confirmed she had no other means  of making her payments. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover in the first place.  
All of the above means  HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to       
Ms G.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms G because: 
When the policy was sold,  HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Ms G about that. 
Because HSBC  didnt  tell Ms G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms G has said. But these points dont  change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms G.
Ref: DRN38863392But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Ms G any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already agreed to do 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3886339