K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase  agreement  financed by 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants to end the agreement  or have 
the cost of repairs covered.
background
Mr A tells us when he acquired the vehicle hed been told by the salesman the vehicle had 
undergone a 142 point  check and was mechanically  sound. And hed been told that stone 
chips on the bonnet would  flat/heat  with time as theyd been  paint touched.  But hes since 
found other faults with the vehicle.  He lists these as a chip to the windscreen,  and a wheel 
locking-nut missing. He says after two months a brake warning light came  on so he took the 
vehicle for repairs under  warranty. Whilst the issue was repaired he was given an advisory 
for other matters. This included the clutch and pressure plate, bushes, brake discs and water 
pump. The cost for these  items would be over £2,000.
Black Horse  told us the vehicle was inspected by Mr A prior to delivery.  And hed not raised  
any concerns about the clutch,  stone  chips, brake-pads and discs or bushes. It said the 
water pump had been replaced prior to supply. And it referred  to a report  by D, a company, 
which had inspected the vehicle and prepared an independent report in May 2018. It said 
the report concluded all the listed items were commensurate with fair wear for a vehicle of 
this age and reported mileage. And that the components are not faulty and do not restrict the 
vehicles use.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She gave a detailed  
breakdown of each  separate  issue raised  by Mr A. This included the windscreen chip which  
she said was cosmetic  and had been repaired under warranty.  And shed seen no evidence  
of the (replaced) water pump being  faulty. She wasnt satisfied the other issues  were present 
at the point of supply.  And she didnt think the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when  
supplied.
Mr A replied  and asked the investigator  to review  her decision.  But having  looked at matters  
again the investigator did not change her view. As its not been possible to resolve the 
complaint an ombudsman has been asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A isnt satisfied with the vehicle and I can understand his concerns that certain 
components may require  replacement at considerable  cost.
As the supplier of both the vehicle  and finance, under present legislation  Black  Horse is 
responsible for the vehicle being  of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. So if I thought  
the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality  at this point Id expect Black Horse to put things 
right.
We are an evidence based service and in reaching  my decision I take account of not just 
what the parties tell me - but I also look to such items as independent  reports  about the 
condition of the vehicle. In this case there  are several documents relating to the condition of 
the vehicle.
Ref: DRN39050042Ive seen an inspection  checklist  dated 27.11.17  at which time the mileage  reported  was 
51,884. A health check completed when  the vehicle was subject to warranty  repairs where 
mileage is recorded  as 55,560. This report also listed the advisories  to which  Mr A referred.
And the report by D dated 16 May 2018  which recorded the mileage as 56,182.
The vehicle was first registered in 2013  - so five years old when Mr A acquired it. the 
mileage on the agreement is recorded as 51,877.  So in judging whether it was of satisfactory 
quality Im required to take the age and mileage  into account. 
The report  by D found multiple stone chips on the bonnet which  had been touched in by the 
dealership. It concluded  these were  commensurate with the age of the vehicle. It further 
reported on the advisories which had been reported  on the health check. It said the items 
were worn  items only.  It said the brake  disc and clutch were worn  but serviceable.  And it 
concluded overall the vehicle was in fair and commensurate condition for its age and 
recorded mileage.
When considering  if a vehicle is of satisfactory  quality that term does not include faults  which 
were or ought to have been  revealed  when a customer examined  the vehicle. Its clear that 
Mr A was aware - and given Ds report says the damage is commensurate  with the age of 
the vehicle I cant  say that would mean  the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality. Id also 
expect a chip in the windscreen to be noticed  - although it seems this has been repaired.
Its also not clear if the vehicle was supplied with a wheel locking-nut. The checklist  does not 
indicate if the tool kit /emergency tyre kit/ wheel locking-nut was examined.  So Im not able 
to say if it was missing at the time of supply or was lost later.  But even if it was missing  at the 
time of supply this would not in my view mean the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence the water pump is faulty. Its mentioned in the health check  
that it was leaking  and had dried  up. But it was replaced - and any visible  staining  may well 
have come from before the replacement.
The other faults to which  Mr A has referred are not so much  faults  as serviceable items - that 
is they normally require  replacing during the lifetime of a vehicle. When  that becomes  
necessary is very much dependent on multiple  factors such as usage and the manner in 
which a vehicle has been driven.  Given the age and mileage of this vehicle it was to be 
expected these items would need replacing at some point. And whilst  its unfortunate  they 
now seem  to be reaching that point this in itself is not out of the ordinary. And the report by D 
indicates the items that were examined  in detail are still serviceable at the moment.  
In summary,  Ive seen  no persuasive evidence that the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied. So Im not asking Black  horse  to do anything  else.
Im aware Mr A is considering taking legal  action. That is entirely a matter  for him. And he is 
under no obligation to accept my decision.  But my decision does bring to an end the 
involvement of this service in trying to reach a resolution to this complaint.
 my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN39050043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3905004